Jan. 21, 2025
Title 41
Public Contracts and Property Management
Chapters 102 to 200
Revised as of July 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of July 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
e:\seals\archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
e:\seals\gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 41:

# SUBTITLE C—
Federal Property Management Regulations System (Continued)
Chapter 102—Federal Management Regulation
5
Chapters 103-104 [Reserved]
Chapter 105—General Services Administration
417
Chapter 109—Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
637
Chapter 114—Department of the Interior
695
Chapter 115—Environmental Protection Agency
699
Chapter 128—Department of Justice
703
Chapters 129-200 [Reserved]

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
721
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
741
List of CFR Sections Affected
751
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
41 CFR 102-2.5
refers to title 41, part 102-2, section 5.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, July 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
July 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 41—
Public Contracts and Property Management
consists of Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]; Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts; Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System; Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security; Subtitle E is reserved for other provisions relating to property management, and Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System.
As of July 1, 1985, the text of subtitle A is no longer published in the Code of Federal Regulations. For an explanation of the status of subtitle A, see 41 CFR chapters 1-100 (page 3).
Other government-wide procurement regulations relating to public contracts appear in chapters 50 through 100, subtitle B.
The Federal property management regulations in chapter 101 of subtitle C are government-wide property management regulations issued by the General Services Administration. In the remaining chapters of subtitle C are the
implementing
and
supplementing
property management regulations issued by individual Government agencies. Those regulations which implement chapter 101 are numerically keyed to it.
The Federal Travel Regulation System in chapters 300-304 of subtitle F is issued by the General Services Administration.
Title 41 is composed of four volumes. The chapters in these volumes are arranged as follows: Chapters 1-100, chapter 101, chapters 102-200, and chapter 201 to end. These volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of July 1, 2025.
For this volume, Michele Bugenhagen was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
41 CFR Ch. 102 (7-1-25 Edition)
Federal Management Regulation

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
(This book contains chapters 102 to 200)

# SUBTITLE C—
Federal Property Management Regulations System (Continued)
Part
chapter 102
—Federal Management Regulation
102-2
chapters 103-104
[Reserved]
chapter 105
—General Services Administration
105-1
chapter 109
—Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
109-1
chapter 114
—Department of the Interior
114-51
chapter 115
—Environmental Protection Agency
115-1
chapter 128
—Department of Justice
128-1
chapters 129-200
[Reserved]

# Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System (Continued)

# CHAPTER 102—FEDERAL MANAGEMENT REGULATION

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL
Part
Page
102-1
General [Reserved]
102-2
Federal management regulation system
7
102-3
Federal Advisory Committee Management
11
102-4
Nondiscrimination in Federal financial assistance programs [Reserved]
102-5
Home-to-work transportation
28
102-6—102-30 [Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER B—PERSONAL PROPERTY
102-31
General [Reserved]
102-32
Management of personal property [Reserved]
102-33
Management of government aircraft
33
102-34
Motor vehicle management
63
102-35
Disposition of personal property
76
102-36
Disposition of excess personal property
78
102-37
Donation of surplus personal property
102
102-38
Sale of personal property
134
102-39
Replacement of personal property pursuant to the exchange/sale authority
149
102-40
Utilization and disposition of personal property with special handling requirements
154
102-41
Disposition of seized, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, and unclaimed personal property
178
102-42
Utilization, donation, and disposal of foreign gifts and decorations
187
102-43—102-70 [Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER C—REAL PROPERTY
102-71
General
196
102-72
Delegation of authority
201
102-73
Real estate acquisition
206
102-74
Facility management
220
102-75
Real property disposal
244
102-76
Design and construction
310
102-77
Art in Architecture
316
102-78
Historic preservation
318
102-79
Assignment and utilization of space
320
102-80
Safety and environmental management
325
102-81
Physical security
332
102-82
Utility services
334
102-83
Location of space
335
102-84
[Reserved]
102-85
Pricing policy for occupancy in GSA space
343
102-86—102-115 [Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER D—TRANSPORTATION
102-116
General [Reserved]
102-117
Transportation management
358
102-118
Transportation payment and audit
376
102-119—102-140 [Reserved]
SUBCHAPTER E—TRAVEL MANAGEMENT
102-141
General [Reserved]
102-142—102-170 [Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER F—TELECOMMUNICATIONS
102-171
General [Reserved]
102-172
Telecommunications management policy [Reserved]
102-173—102-190 [Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER G—ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAMS
102-191
General [Reserved]
102-192
Mail management
405
102-193
Creation, maintenance, and use of records
411
102-194
Standard and optional forms management program
413
102-196
Federal facility ridesharing [Reserved]
102-197—102-199 [Reserved]
SUBCHAPTERS H-Z [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL
PART 102—GENERAL [RESERVED]
Pt. 102-2

# PART 102-2—FEDERAL MANAGEMENT REGULATION SYSTEM

# Subpart A—Regulation System

# General
Sec.
102-2.5
What is the Federal Management Regulation (FMR)?
102-2.10
What is the FMR's purpose?
102-2.15
What is the authority for the FMR system?
102-2.20
Which agencies are subject to the FMR?
102-2.25
When are other agencies involved in developing the FMR?
102-2.30
Where and in what formats is the FMR published?
102-2.35
How is the FMR distributed?
102-2.40
May an agency issue implementing and supplementing regulations for the FMR?

# Numbering
102-2.45
How is the FMR numbered?
102-2.50
How do I number my agency's implementing regulations?
102-2.55
How do I number my agency's supplementing regulations?

# Deviations
102-2.60
What is a deviation from the FMR?
102-2.65
When may agencies deviate from the FMR?
102-2.70
What are individual and class deviations?
102-2.75
What timeframes apply to deviations?
102-2.80
What steps must an agency take to deviate from the FMR?
102-2.85
What are the reasons for writing to GSA about FMR deviations?
102-2.90
Where should my agency send its correspondence on an FMR deviation?
102-2.95
What information must agencies include in their deviation letters to GSA?
102-2.100
Must agencies provide GSA with a follow-up analysis of their experience in deviating from the FMR?
102-2.105
What information must agencies include in their follow-up analysis?
102-2.110
When must agencies provide their follow-up analysis?

# Non-Regulatory Material
102-2.115
What kinds of non-regulatory material does GSA publish outside of the FMR?
102-2.120
How do I know whom to contact to discuss the regulatory requirements of programs addressed in the FMR?
102-2.125
What source of information can my agency use to identify materials that describe how to do business with GSA?

# Subpart B—Forms
102-2.130
Where are FMR forms prescribed?
102-2.135
How do agencies obtain forms prescribed by the FMR?

# Subpart C—Plain Language Regulatory Style
102-2.140
What elements of plain language appear in the FMR?
102-2.145
To what do pronouns refer when used in the FMR?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
64 FR 39085, July 21, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Regulation System

# General
§ 102-2.5
What is the Federal Management Regulation (FMR)?
The Federal Management Regulation (FMR) is the successor regulation to the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR). It contains updated regulatory policies originally found in the FPMR. However, it does not contain FPMR material that described how to do business with the General Services Administration (GSA). “How to” materials on this and other subjects are available in customer service guides, handbooks, brochures and Internet websites provided by GSA. (See § 102-2.125.)
§ 102-2.10
What is the FMR's purpose?
The FMR prescribes policies concerning property management and related administrative activities. GSA issues the FMR to carry out the Administrator of General Services' functional responsibilities, as established by statutes, Executive orders, Presidential memoranda, Circulars and bulletins issued by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and other policy directives.
§ 102-2.15
What is the authority for the FMR system?
The Administrator of General Services prescribes and issues the FMR under the authority of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, 40 U.S.C. 486(c), as well as other applicable Federal laws and authorities.
§ 102-2.20
Which agencies are subject to the FMR?
The FMR applies to executive agencies unless otherwise extended to Federal agencies in various parts of this chapter. The difference between the two terms is that Federal agencies include executive agencies plus establishments in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government. See paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for the definitions of each term.
(a)
What is an executive agency?
An executive agency is any executive department or independent establishment in the executive branch of the Government, including any wholly-owned Government corporation. (See 40 U.S.C. 472(a).)
(b)
What is a Federal agency?
A Federal agency is any executive agency or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under that person's direction). (See 40 U.S.C. 472(b).)
§ 102-2.25
When are other agencies involved in developing the FMR?
Normally, GSA will ask agencies to collaborate in developing parts of the FMR.
§ 102-2.30
Where and in what formats is the FMR published?
Proposed rules are published in the
Federal Register.
FMR bulletins are published in looseleaf format. FMR interim and final rules are published in the following formats—
(a)
Federal Register
under the “Rules and Regulations” section.
(b) Loose-leaf. (See § 102-2.35.)
(c) Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), which is an annual codification of the general and permanent rules published in the
Federal Register.
The CFR is available on line and in a bound-volume format.
(d) Electronically on the Internet.
§ 102-2.35
How is the FMR distributed?
(a) A liaison appointed by each agency provides GSA with their agency's distribution requirements of the looseleaf version of the FMR. Agencies must submit GSA Form 2053, Agency Consolidated Requirements for GSA Regulations and Other External Issuances, to—General Services Administration, Office of Communications (X), 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20405.
(b) Order
Federal Register
and Code of Federal Regulations copies of FMR material through your agency's authorizing officer.
§ 102-2.40
May an agency issue implementing and supplementing regulations for the FMR?
Yes, an agency may issue implementing regulations (see § 102-2.50) to expand upon related FMR material and supplementing regulations (see § 102-2.55) to address subject material not covered in the FMR. The Office of the Federal Register assigns chapters in Title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations for agency publication of implementing and supplementing regulations.

# Numbering
§ 102-2.45
How is the FMR numbered?
(a) All FMR sections are designated by three numbers. The following example illustrates the chapter (it's always 102), part, and section designations:
ER21JY99.001
(b) In the looseleaf version, the month, year, and number of FMR amendments appear at the bottom of each page.
§ 102-2.50
How do I number my agency's implementing regulations?
The first three-digit number represents the chapter number assigned to your agency in Title 41 of the CFR. The part and section numbers correspond to FMR material. For example, if your agency is assigned Chapter 130 in Title 41 of the CFR and you are implementing § 102-2.60 of the FMR, your implementing section would be numbered § 130-2.60.
§ 102-2.55
How do I number my agency's supplementing regulations?
Since there is no corresponding FMR material, number the supplementing material “601” or higher. For example, your agency's supplementing regulations governing special services to states might start with § 130-601.5.

# Deviations
§ 102-2.60
What is a deviation from the FMR?
A deviation from the FMR is an agency action or policy that is inconsistent with the regulation. (The deviation policy for the FPMR is in 41 CFR part 101-1.)
§ 102-2.65
When may agencies deviate from the FMR?
Because, it consists primarily of set policies and mandatory requirements, deviation from the FMR should occur infrequently. However, to address unique circumstances or to test the effectiveness of potential policy changes, agencies may be able to deviate from the FMR after following the steps described in § 102-2.80.
§ 102-2.70
What are individual and class deviations?
An individual deviation is intended to affect only one action. A class deviation is intended to affect more than one action (e.g., multiple actions, the actions of more than one agency, or individual agency actions that are expected to recur).
§ 102-2.75
What timeframes apply to deviations?
Timeframes vary based on the nature of the deviation. However, deviations cannot be open-ended. When consulting with GSA about using an individual or class deviation, you must set a timeframe for the deviation's duration.
§ 102-2.80
What steps must an agency take to deviate from the FMR?
(a) Consult informally with appropriate GSA program personnel to learn more about how your agency can work within the FMR's requirements instead of deviating from them. The consultation process may also highlight reasons why an agency would not be permitted to deviate from the FMR; e.g., statutory constraints.
(b) Formally request a deviation, if consultations indicate that your agency needs one. The head of your agency or a designated official should write to GSA's Regulatory Secretariat to the attention of a GSA official in the program office that is likely to consider the deviation. (See the FMR bulletin that lists contacts in GSA's program offices and § 102-2.90.) The written request must fully explain the reasons for the deviation, including the benefits that the agency expects to achieve.
§ 102-2.85
What are the reasons for writing to GSA about FMR deviations?
The reasons for writing are to:
(a) Explain your agency's rationale for the deviation. Before it can adequately comment on a potential deviation from the FMR, GSA must know why it is needed. GSA will compare your need against the applicable policies and regulations.
(b) Obtain clarification from GSA as to whether statutes, Executive orders, or other controlling policies, which may not be evident in the regulation, preclude deviating from the FMR for the reasons stated.
(c) Establish a timeframe for using a deviation.
(d) Identify potential changes to the FMR.
(e) Identify the benefits and other results that the agency expects to achieve.
§ 102-2.90
Where should my agency send its correspondence on an FMR deviation?
Send correspondence to: General Services Administration, Regulatory Secretariat (MVRS), Office of Governmentwide Policy, 1800 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20405.
§ 102-2.95
What information must agencies include in their deviation letters to GSA?
Agencies must include:
(a) The title and citation of the FMR provision from which the agency wishes to deviate;
(b) The name and telephone number of an agency contact who can discuss the reason for the deviation;
(c) The reason for the deviation;
(d) A statement about the expected benefits of using the deviation (to the extent possible, expected benefits should be stated in measurable terms);
(e) A statement about possible use of the deviation in other agencies or Governmentwide; and
(f) The duration of the deviation.
§ 102-2.100
Must agencies provide GSA with a follow-up analysis of their experience in deviating from the FMR?
Yes, agencies that deviate from the FMR must also write to the relevant GSA program office at the Regulatory Secretariat's address (see § 102-2.90) to describe their experiences in using a deviation.
§ 102-2.105
What information must agencies include in their follow-up analysis?
In your follow-up analysis, provide information that may include, but should not be limited to, specific actions taken or not taken as a result of the deviation, outcomes, impacts, anticipated versus actual results, and the advantages and disadvantages of taking an alternative course of action.
§ 102-2.110
When must agencies provide their follow-up letters?
(a) For an individual deviation, once the action is complete.
(b) For a class deviation, at the end of each twelve-month period from the time you first took the deviation and at the end of the deviation period.

# Non-Regulatory Material
§ 102-2.115
What kinds of non-regulatory material does GSA publish outside of the FMR?
As GSA converts the FPMR to the FMR, non-regulatory materials in the FPMR, such as guidance, procedures, standards, and information, that describe how to do business with GSA, will become available in separate documents. These documents may include customer service guides, handbooks, brochures, Internet websites, and FMR bulletins. GSA will eliminate non-regulatory material that is no longer needed.
§ 102-2.120
How do I know whom to contact to discuss the regulatory requirements of programs addressed in the FMR?
Periodically, GSA will issue for your reference an FMR bulletin that lists program contacts with whom agencies can discuss regulatory requirements. At a minimum, the list will contain organization names and telephone numbers for each program addressed in the FMR.
§ 102-2.125
What source of information can my agency use to identify materials that describe how to do business with GSA?
The FMR establishes policy; it does not specify procedures for the acquisition of GSA services. However, as a service to users during the transition
from the FPMR to the FMR and as needed thereafter, GSA will issue FMR bulletins to identify where to find information on how to do business with GSA. References include customer service guides, handbooks, brochures, Internet websites, etc.

# Subpart B—Forms
§ 102-2.130
Where are FMR forms prescribed?
In any of its parts, the FMR may prescribe forms and the requirements for using them.
§ 102-2.135
How do agencies obtain forms prescribed by the FMR?
For copies of the forms prescribed by in the FMR, do any of the following:
(a) Write to us at: General Services Administration, National Forms and Publications Center (7CPN), Warehouse 4, Dock No. 1, 501 West Felix Street, Fort Worth, TX 76115.
(b) Send e-mail messages to:
NFPC@gsa-7FDepot.
(c) Visit our web site at:
www.gsa.gov/forms/forms.htm.

# Subpart C—Plain Language Regulatory Style
§ 102-2.140
What elements of plain language appear in the FMR?
The FMR is written in a “plain language” regulatory style. This style is easy to read and uses a question and answer format directed at the reader, active voice, shorter sentences, and, where appropriate, personal pronouns.
§ 102-2.145
To what do pronouns refer when used in the FMR?
Throughout its text, the FMR may contain pronouns such as, but not limited to, we, you, and I. When pronouns are used, each subchapter of the FMR will indicate whether they refer to the reader, an agency, GSA, or some other entity. In general, pronouns refer to who or what must perform a required action.
Pt. 102

# PART 102-3—FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT

# Subpart A—What Policies Apply to Advisory Committees Established Within the Executive Branch?
Sec.
102-3.5
What does this part cover and how does it apply?
102-3.10
What is the purpose of the Federal Advisory Committee Act?
102-3.15-102-3.20
[Reserved]
102-3.25
What definitions apply to this part?
102-3.30
What policies govern the use of advisory committees?
102-3.35
What policies govern the use of subcommittees?
102-3.40
What types of committees or groups are not covered by the Act and this part?

# Subpart B—How Are Advisory Committees Established, Renewed, Reestablished, Merged, and Terminated?
102-3.45
What does this subpart cover and how does it apply?
102-3.50
What are the authorities for establishing advisory committees?
102-3.55
What rules apply to the duration of an advisory committee?
102-3.60
What procedures are required to establish, renew, reestablish, or merge a discretionary advisory committee?
102-3.65
What are the public notification requirements for discretionary advisory committees?
102-3.70
What are the charter filing requirements?
102-3.75
What information must be included in the charter of an advisory committee?
102-3.80
How are charter amendments accomplished?
102-3.85
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—How Are Advisory Committees Managed?
102-3.90
What does this subpart cover and how does it apply?
102-3.95
What principles apply to the management of advisory committees?
102-3.100
What are the responsibilities and functions of GSA?
102-3.105
What are the responsibilities of an agency head?
102-3.110
What are the responsibilities of a chairperson of an independent Presidential advisory committee?
102-3.115
What are the responsibilities and functions of an agency CMO?
102-3.120
What are the responsibilities and functions of a DFO?
102-3.125
What is required to be included in an agency's administrative guidelines to implement an advisory committee?
102-3.130
What policies apply to the appointment, and compensation or reimbursement of advisory committee members?

# Subpart D—Advisory Committee Meeting and Recordkeeping Procedures
102-3.135
What does this subpart cover and how does it apply?
102-3.140
What policies apply to advisory committee meetings?
102-3.145
What policies apply to subcommittee meetings?
102-3.150
How are advisory committee meetings announced to the public?
102-3.155
How are advisory committee meetings closed to the public?
102-3.160
What activities of an advisory committee are not subject to the notice and open meeting requirements of the Act?
102-3.165
How are advisory committee meetings documented?
102-3.170
How does an interested party obtain access to advisory committee records?
102-3.175
What are the reporting and recordkeeping requirements for an advisory committee?

# Subpart E—How Does This Subpart Apply to Advice or Recommendations Provided to Agencies by the National Academy of Sciences or the National Academy of Public Administration?
102-3.180
What does this subpart cover and how does it apply?
102-3.185
What does this subpart require agencies to do?

# Subpart F—Severability
102-3.190
What portions of this part are severable?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 486(c); 5 U.S.C. chapter 10; and E.O. 12024, 42 FR 61445, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 158.

# Source:
89 FR 27679, Apr. 18, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—What Policies Apply to Advisory Committees Established Within the Executive Branch?
§ 102-3.5
What does this part cover and how does it apply?
This part provides the policy framework and establishes minimum requirements that must be used by agency heads and Federal officers in applying the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (FACA or “the Act”), 5 U.S.C. chapter 10, to advisory committees they establish and operate. In addition to listing key definitions underlying the interpretation of the Act, this part establishes the scope and applicability of the Act and outlines specific exclusions from its coverage. This part is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person, including any advisory committee or officer, member, employee, agent, or contractor of any advisory committee.
§ 102-3.10
What is the purpose of the Federal Advisory Committee Act?
FACA governs the establishment, operation, administration, and termination of advisory committees within the executive branch of the Federal Government. The Act defines what constitutes a Federal advisory committee and provides general procedures for the executive branch to follow for the operation of these advisory committees. In addition, the Act is designed to assure that the Congress and the public are kept informed with respect to the number, purpose, membership, activities, recommendations, outcomes, and cost of advisory committees through reporting requirements. These requirements form the basis for implementing the Act at both the agency and Government-wide levels.
§§ 102-3.15-102-3.20
[Reserved]
§ 102-3.25
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Act
means the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), as amended, 5 U.S.C. chapter 10.
Administrator
means the Administrator of General Services.
Advisory committee
means any committee, board, commission, council, conference, panel, task force, or other similar group, which is established by statute, or established or utilized by the President or by an agency official, for the purpose of obtaining the group's advice or recommendations for the
President or on issues or policies within the scope of agency responsibilities (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1001). Advisory committees are subject to the Act unless specifically exempted by the Act, or by other statutes, or not covered by this part.
Agency
has the same meaning as in 5 U.S.C. 551(1).
Agency head
means the head of an executive branch agency, department, or commission, or their designated delegate.
Chairperson
means the advisory committee or subcommittee member who serves in this role on an advisory committee or subcommittee by statutory requirement, or by appointment or invitation by Presidential authority or an agency's authority.
Committee Management Officer (CMO)
means the individual designated by the agency head to implement the provisions of sec. 8(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1007(b)) and any delegated responsibilities of the agency head under the Act.
Committee Management Secretariat (Secretariat)
means the organization established pursuant to sec. 7(a) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1006(a)), which is responsible for all matters relating to advisory committees and carries out the responsibilities of the Administrator under the Act and E.O. 12024 (3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 158).
Committee meeting
means any gathering of advisory committee members (whether in person or electronically, such as using telecommunications or through a virtual platform), held with the approval of an agency, and with a Designated Federal Officer in attendance, for the purpose of deliberating on the matters upon which the advisory committee provides advice or recommendations.
Committee member
means an individual who serves by appointment or invitation by the appointing authority on an advisory committee or subcommittee.
Committee staff
means any Federal employee, private individual, or other party (whether under contract or not) who is not a committee member, and who serves in a support capacity to an advisory committee or subcommittee. Committee staff serve in coordination with the Designated Federal Officer.
Designated Federal Officer (DFO)
means an individual designated by the agency head, for each advisory committee for which the agency head is responsible, to implement the provisions of secs. 10(e) and (f) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(e) and (f)) and any advisory committee procedures of the agency under the control and supervision of the CMO.
Discretionary advisory committee
means any advisory committee that is established under the authority of an agency head or authorized by statute. An advisory committee referenced in general (non-specific) authorizing language or Congressional committee report language is discretionary, and its establishment or termination is within the legal discretion of an agency head.
Group Federal Officer (GFO)
means an individual who assists the CMO in overseeing and managing a portion of the agency's Federal advisory committee management program.
Independent Presidential advisory committee
means any Presidential advisory committee not assigned by the Congress, or by the President or the President's delegate, to an agency for administrative and other support.
Non-discretionary advisory committee
means any advisory committee either required by statute or by Presidential directive. A non-discretionary advisory committee required by statute generally is identified specifically in a statute by name, purpose, or function(s), and its establishment or termination is beyond the legal discretion of an agency head.
Presidential advisory committee
means any advisory committee authorized by the Congress or directed by the President to advise the President.
Subcommittee
means a group that reports to an advisory committee, and not directly to a Federal officer or agency, whether or not its members are drawn in whole or in part from the parent advisory committee. However, if a subcommittee makes advice or recommendations directly to a Federal officer or agency, it is no longer functioning as a subcommittee, and must:
file a charter following the requirements of § 102-3.70, that includes the information required in § 102-3.75; comply with all of the requirements of this part; and will be counted as a chartered advisory committee at an agency.
Utilized by
means a committee that is one over which the President or a Federal officer or agency exercises actual management or control of its operation, whether or not it was established by the Federal Government.
§ 102-3.30
What policies govern the use of advisory committees?
These are the policies to be followed by Federal departments and agencies in establishing and operating advisory committees consistent with the Act:
(a)
Determination of need in the public interest.
A discretionary advisory committee may be established only when it is essential to the conduct of agency business and when the information to be obtained is not already available through another advisory committee or source within the Federal Government.
(b)
Termination.
Advisory committees terminate pursuant to § 102-3.55.
(c)
Fairly balanced membership.
An advisory committee must be fairly balanced in its membership in terms of the points of view represented and the functions to be performed (as explained further in § 102-3.60).
(d)
Open meetings.
Advisory committee meetings must be open to the public except when a meeting is closed or partially closed in accordance with the exemptions set forth in the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b(c).
(1)
Compliance with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.
With the support of the sponsoring Federal department or agency, the advisory committee must provide reasonable modifications for individuals with disabilities when the modifications are necessary to avoid discrimination on the basis of disability, unless the public entity can demonstrate that making the modifications would fundamentally alter the nature of the program or activity. The advisory committee must also take appropriate steps to ensure that communications with individuals with disabilities are as effective as communications with others, including by furnishing appropriate auxiliary aids and services where necessary to afford qualified individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, the advisory committee. Examples of auxiliary aids and services include qualified interpreters and information in alternate formats, such as braille or large print. In order to be effective, auxiliary aids and services must be provided in accessible formats, in a timely manner, and in such a way as to protect the privacy and independence of the individual with a disability. An advisory committee may not charge for the provision of auxiliary aids and services. An advisory committee is not required to provide an aid or service if it can demonstrate that providing that aid or service would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. Advisory committees should consider how to ensure that advisory committee members and members of the public are made aware that qualified individuals with disabilities are entitled to effective communication, including appropriate auxiliary aids and services. Advisory committees should also consider how to ensure that advisory committee members and members of the public are made aware of the option to request reasonable modifications in advance of meetings and should identify a point of contact to receive and respond to requests for reasonable modifications.
(2)
Ensuring language access and provision of language assistance services.
With the support of the sponsoring Federal department or agency, the advisory committee must ensure equal participation by individuals with limited English proficiency. This may include conducting outreach and providing notifications in the language(s) used by the affected communities and potential or actual advisory committee members, as well as providing language assistance services, including electronic and printed written translated documents and oral interpretation services free of charge and in a timely manner, when such services are necessary to provide meaningful access to a limited
English proficient individual, consistent with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.,
and E.O. 13166, Improving Access to Services for Persons With Limited English Proficiency, 3 CFR, 2000 Comp., p. 289.
(e)
Advisory functions only.
The function of advisory committees is advisory only, unless specifically provided by statute or Presidential directive.
§ 102-3.35
What policies govern the use of subcommittees?
(a) In general, the requirements of the Act and the policies of this part do not apply to subcommittees of advisory committees that report to a parent advisory committee and not directly to a Federal officer or agency. However, this section does not preclude an agency from applying any provision of the Act and this part to any subcommittee of an advisory committee.
(b) If a subcommittee reports directly to a Federal officer or agency, it is no longer functioning as a subcommittee. In that case, the subcommittee must be chartered as a new advisory committee, must comply with all of the requirements of this part, and will be counted as a chartered advisory committee at an agency.
(c) Unless required by statute or Presidential directive, the creation and operation of subcommittees must be approved by the agency establishing the parent advisory committee in coordination with the DFO.
§ 102-3.40
What types of committees or groups are not covered by the Act and this part?
In addition to the committees created by the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine and the National Academy of Public Administration (except as covered by subpart E of this part), the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Federal Reserve, the following are examples of committees or groups that are not covered by the Act or this part:
(a) Any advisory committee established or utilized by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, if the Director of National Intelligence determines that for reasons of national security such advisory committee cannot comply with the requirements of the Act;
(b) Committees specifically exempted by statute;
(c) Committees created by non-Federal entities and not actually managed or controlled by the executive branch;
(d) Groups assembled where attendees provide individual advice to a Federal official(s);
(e) Groups assembled to exchange facts or information with a Federal official(s);
(f) Any committee composed wholly of full-time or permanent part-time officers or employees of the Federal Government and elected officers of State, local, and Tribal governments (or their designated employees with authority to act on their behalf), acting in their official capacities. The purpose of such a committee must be solely to exchange views, information, or advice relating to the management or implementation of Federal programs established pursuant to statute, that explicitly or inherently share intergovernmental responsibilities or administration (see guidelines issued by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) on sec. 204(b) of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995, 2 U.S.C. 1534(b), and OMB Memorandum M-95-20, dated September 21, 1995, available on the Committee Management Secretariat website);
(g) Any committee composed wholly of full-time or permanent part-time officers or employees of the Federal Government;
(h) Local civic groups whose primary function is that of rendering a public service with respect to a Federal program;
(i) Groups established to advise State or local officials;
(j) Any committee established to perform primarily operational as opposed to advisory functions. Operational functions are those specifically authorized by statute or Presidential directive, such as making or implementing Government decisions or policy. A committee designated operational may be covered by the Act if it becomes primarily advisory in nature; and
(k) Any committee established, created, managed, and staffed by the government of a foreign country; or any
committee created, managed, and staffed by an executive branch agency to advise or make recommendations to a government official, government group, or government agency of a foreign country.

# Subpart B—How Are Advisory Committees Established, Renewed, Reestablished, Merged, and Terminated?
§ 102-3.45
What does this subpart cover and how does it apply?
Requirements for establishing and terminating advisory committees vary depending on the establishing entity and the source of authority for the advisory committee. This subpart covers the procedures associated with the establishment, renewal, reestablishment, merger, and termination of advisory committees. These procedures include, but are not limited to, consulting with the Secretariat, preparing and filing an advisory committee charter, publishing notice in the
Federal Register,
and amending an advisory committee charter.
§ 102-3.50
What are the authorities for establishing advisory committees?
FACA identifies four sources of authority for establishing an advisory committee:
(a)
Required by statute.
By law where Congress establishes an advisory committee, or specifically directs the President or an agency to establish it (non-discretionary);
(b)
Presidential authority.
By E.O. of the President or other Presidential directive (non-discretionary);
(c)
Authorized by statute.
By law where Congress authorizes, but does not direct the President or an agency to establish it (discretionary); or
(d)
Agency authority.
By an agency under general authority in title 5 of the United States Code or under other agency-authorizing statutes (discretionary).
§ 102-3.55
What rules apply to the duration of an advisory committee?
(a) An advisory committee automatically terminates two years after its date of establishment unless:
(1) The statutory authority used to establish the advisory committee provides a different duration or termination, either stated in or implied by operation of the statute;
(2) The President or agency head determines that the advisory committee has fulfilled the purpose for which it was established and terminates the advisory committee earlier;
(3) The President or agency head determines that the advisory committee is no longer carrying out the purpose for which it was established and terminates the advisory committee earlier; or
(4) The President or agency head renews the advisory committee not later than two years after its date of establishment, renewal, or reestablishment in accordance with § 102-3.60. If the President or an agency needs an advisory committee that was terminated, it can be reestablished in accordance with § 102-3.60.
(b) When an advisory committee terminates, the agency shall notify the Secretariat of the effective date of the termination.
§ 102-3.60
What procedures are required to establish, renew, reestablish, or merge a discretionary advisory committee?
(a)
Consultation with the Secretariat.
To establish, renew, reestablish, or merge a discretionary advisory committee, the agency head must first consult with the Secretariat. As part of this consultation, agency heads should provide the Secretariat with a full understanding of the background and purpose behind the advisory committee, and the Secretariat should share its knowledge and experience with the agency.
(b)
Include required information in the consultation with the Secretariat.
Consultations covering the establishment, renewal, reestablishment, or merger of advisory committees must, as a minimum, contain the following information:
(1)
Explanation of need.
An explanation stating why the advisory committee is essential to the conduct of agency business and in the public interest or why it is necessary to merge one or more advisory committees;
(2)
Lack of duplication of resources.
An explanation stating why the advisory committee's functions cannot be performed by the agency, another existing committee, or other means such as a public hearing or other methods of public engagement; and
(3)
Fairly balanced membership.
A description of the agency's plan to attain fairly balanced membership, as appropriate based on the nature and functions of the advisory committee, as documented through the agency's Membership Balance Plan (MBP). The MBP must be uploaded to the FACA database when the agency files the Federal advisory committee charter with the Secretariat.
(i)
Points of view required.
During the formation of the advisory committee membership and as membership vacancies occur, agencies should ensure that they fully consider and understand the potential implications or anticipated impacts of the advisory committee's potential recommendations. This includes consideration of the groups and entities potentially affected or interested in such recommendations, as appropriate based on the nature and functions of the advisory committee, so that the agency can make informed decisions on the areas of expertise or perspectives (including relevant lived experience) that would advance the work of the advisory committee. Advisory committees requiring technical expertise should include persons with demonstrated professional or personal qualifications and experience relevant to the functions and tasks to be performed by the committee. The MBP shall describe the agency's conclusions regarding the points of view that would promote fairly balanced committee membership.
(ii)
Outreach.
Having identified the points of view that would promote a fairly balanced advisory committee membership, agencies should conduct broad outreach, using a variety of means and methods, to ensure that the call for nominees reaches the interested parties and stakeholder groups likely to possess those points of view. Agencies should further ensure outreach to underserved communities, as appropriate to the nature and functions of the advisory committee. The MBP shall describe the agency's intended outreach efforts to accomplish these goals.
(iii)
Selection.
In the selection of members for the advisory committee and as membership vacancies occur, agencies shall ensure representation of persons with the points of view identified pursuant to this section that would promote a fairly balanced advisory committee membership. The MBP shall describe the agency's intended selection criteria and approach.
§ 102-3.65
What are the public notification requirements for discretionary advisory committees?
A notice to the public in the
Federal Register
is required when a discretionary advisory committee is established, renewed, reestablished, or a new discretionary committee is established as the result of a merger of existing committees. The notices should be written in plain language and should not assume that the public has background knowledge or familiarity with an agency or the advisory committee. The agency is also strongly encouraged to make the notice available electronically in the languages represented by the affected communities on the agency's advisory committee website, if one exists, as well as use additional notification methods (such as an agency's social media accounts) to reach advisory committee stakeholders (such as professional trade or membership groups, civic groups, community-based organizations, ethnic media, representatives of affected stakeholder groups, and colleges and universities). Electronic notices must meet the requirements of title VI and E.O. 13166, as well as obligations under relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794.
(a)
Procedure.
Upon receiving notice from the Secretariat that its review is complete in accordance with § 102-3.60(a), the agency must publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing that the advisory committee is being established (including due to a merger), renewed, or reestablished. When establishing a new advisory committee, the notice also must describe the nature and purpose of the advisory
committee and affirm that the advisory committee is necessary and in the public interest.
(b)
Time required for notices.
Notices of advisory committee establishment (including due to a merger) and reestablishment must appear at least 15 calendar days before the charter is filed, except that the Secretariat may approve less than 15 calendar days when requested by the agency in exceptional circumstances (such as a national emergency or natural disaster). This requirement for advance notice does not apply to advisory committee renewals, notices of which may be published concurrently with the filing of the charter.
§ 102-3.70
What are the charter filing requirements?
No advisory committee may meet or take any action until a charter has been filed by the CMO or by another agency official designated by the agency head.
(a)
Requirement for discretionary advisory committees.
To amend a charter, or establish (including due to a merger), renew, or reestablish a discretionary advisory committee, a charter must be filed with:
(1) The agency head;
(2) The standing committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives having legislative jurisdiction of the agency, the date of filing with which constitutes the official date of establishment for the advisory committee;
(3) The Library of Congress; and
(4) The Secretariat, indicating the date the charter was filed in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b)
Requirement for non-discretionary advisory committees.
Charter filing requirements for non-discretionary advisory committees are the same as those in paragraph (a) of this section, except that the date of establishment, renewal, or reestablishment for a Presidential advisory committee is the date the charter is filed with the Secretariat.
(c)
Requirement for subcommittees that report directly to the Government.
Subcommittees that report directly to a Federal officer or agency must comply with this subpart and be chartered as a new advisory committee as they are no longer functioning as a subcommittee.
§ 102-3.75
What information must be included in the charter of an advisory committee?
An advisory committee charter is intended to provide a description of an advisory committee's mission, goals, and objectives. The charter must contain the following information:
(a) The advisory committee's official designation (official name);
(b) The legal authority that permits the advisory committee to be established;
(c) The objectives and the scope of the advisory committee's activities;
(d) A description of the duties for which the advisory committee is responsible and specification of the authority for any non-advisory functions;
(e) The agency or Federal officer to whom the advisory committee submits its recommendations;
(f) The agency responsible for providing the necessary support to the advisory committee, including the name of the President's delegate, agency, or organization responsible for fulfilling the reporting requirements of sec. 6(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1005(b)), if appropriate;
(g) The estimated annual costs to operate the advisory committee in dollars and person years (full time equivalents or FTE);
(h) The role of the DFO;
(i) The estimated number and frequency of the advisory committee's meetings;
(j) The period of time necessary to carry out the advisory committee's purpose(s);
(k) The planned termination date, if less than two years from the date of establishment of the advisory committee;
(l) The estimated number of advisory committee members, the expertise or experience required, and the anticipated advisory committee member designations;
(m) Whether subcommittees may be created, by whom, and how they operate under the chartered advisory committee;
(n) The relevant recordkeeping disposition schedule(s); and
(o) The date the charter is filed in accordance with § 102-3.70.
§ 102-3.80
How are charter amendments accomplished?
The agency head is responsible for amending the charter of an advisory committee. Amending any existing advisory committee charter does not constitute renewal of the advisory committee under § 102-3.60. The procedures for making changes and filing amended charters will depend upon the authority basis for the advisory committee, as stated in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:
(a)
Non-discretionary advisory committees.
The agency head must ensure that any changes made to current charters are consistent with the relevant authority. When Congress by law, or the President by Presidential directive (
e.g.,
E.O.), changes the authorizing language that has been the basis for establishing an advisory committee, the agency head or the chairperson of an independent Presidential advisory committee must amend those sections of the current charter affected by the new statute or Presidential directive (
e.g.,
E.O.); file the amended charter as specified in § 102-3.70; and notify the public as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Discretionary advisory committees.
The charter of a discretionary advisory committee must be amended when an agency head determines that provisions of a filed charter are inaccurate, specific provisions have changed or become obsolete with the passing of time, or advisory committees need to be merged. Amendments could also include changing the name of the advisory committee, advisory committee authority, number of members, estimated number or frequency of meetings, objectives and scope, duties, and estimated costs. The agency must amend the charter language as necessary and the agency must:
(1) First consult with the Secretariat and explain the purpose of the changes and why they are necessary. The Secretariat will notify the agency when the consultation process is complete.
(2) Upon receiving notice from the Secretariat that the consultation is complete, file the amended charter as specified in § 102-3.70, and notify the public as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Public notification of charter amendments.
Agencies must post an announcement and a copy of the charter amendment on the advisory committee website. If an advisory committee website is not available, the agency must publish a notice of amendment in the
Federal Register.
Federal Register
notice publishing and website posting of charter amendments may be performed concurrently with the filing of the charter. The publishing requirement in the
Federal Register
does not apply to a non-discretionary advisory committee if the amendment was the result of a legislative change or Presidential directive.
§ 102-3.85
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—How Are Advisory Committees Managed?
§ 102-3.90
What does this subpart cover and how does it apply?
This subpart outlines specific responsibilities and functions to be carried out by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA), the agency head, the CMO, and the DFO under the Act.
§ 102-3.95
What principles apply to the management of advisory committees?
Agencies are encouraged to apply the following principles to the management of their advisory committees:
(a)
Provide adequate support and access.
Before establishing an advisory committee, agencies should identify requirements and ensure that adequate resources are available to support anticipated activities. Considerations related to support could include work and meeting space, necessary technology, supplies and equipment (e.g., adequate virtual meeting capabilities), Federal staff support, access to key decisionmakers, and member access to meetings (e.g., travel reimbursement).
These considerations should also include support for access to communication modes that are inclusive of individuals with limited English proficiency or individuals with disabilities (e.g., adequate virtual meeting capabilities). These considerations should also include whether there are physical barriers to attending in-person meetings.
(b)
Practice openness.
Agencies should seek to be as transparent, equitable, inclusive, accessible, and timely as possible when providing public access to advisory committee activities and materials. Agencies should minimize, to the extent possible, closing or partially closing meetings, and are encouraged where appropriate to open subcommittee meetings to the public. Agencies should also create public facing websites at both the agency and advisory committee level to help the public understand an agency's advisory committee program, and use additional notification methods, as appropriate, to reach advisory committee stakeholders, pursuant to sec. 10 of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009). Such websites must be in compliance with E.O. 13166, relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794, and the 21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (IDEA). Section 3(e) of 21st Century IDEA requires any public Federal agency website created after December 2018 to be in compliance with the website standards of the Technology Transformation Services of the General Services Administration. IDEA, Public Law 115-336, 132 Stat. 5025.
(c)
Promote diversity, equity, and inclusivity.
Once the Federal advisory committee is formed, committee chairs and DFOs should foster a culture of diversity, equity, and inclusion by encouraging engagement, participation, and expression from all committee members and any members with dissenting opinions, as applicable.
(d)
Seek feedback.
Agencies should continually seek feedback from advisory committee members and the public regarding the advisory committee's activities. At regular intervals, agencies should communicate to the members how their advice has affected agency programs and decision making and make this information available to the public.
§ 102-3.100
What are the responsibilities and functions of GSA?
(a) The responsibilities of the Administrator under sec. 7 of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1006) have been delegated by the Administrator to the Committee Management Secretariat within GSA's Office of Government-wide Policy.
(b) The Secretariat carries out its responsibilities by:
(1) Engaging in consultations with agencies on the establishment, re-establishment, renewal, merger, and termination of discretionary advisory committees;
(2) Prescribing guidance applicable to advisory committees;
(3) Assisting other agencies in implementing and interpreting the Act;
(4) Conducting an annual comprehensive review of Government-wide advisory committee accomplishments, costs, benefits, and other indicators to measure performance;
(5) Developing and providing Government-wide training regarding the Act and related statutes and principles;
(6) Supporting the Interagency Committee on Federal Advisory Committee Management and FACA Attorney Council to improve compliance with the Act;
(7) Designing and maintaining a FACA database to facilitate data collection, reporting, and use of information required by the Act;
(8) Preparing regulations on Federal advisory committees;
(9) Identifying performance measures that may be used to evaluate advisory committee accomplishments; and
(10) Providing recommendations for transmittal by the Administrator to Congress and the President regarding proposals to improve accomplishment of the objectives of the Act.
§ 102-3.105
What are the responsibilities of an agency head?
When a committee is utilized by or established by an agency, the agency head must:
(a) Comply with the Act, this part, and other applicable laws and regulations;
(b) Issue administrative guidelines and management controls providing the details that advisory committee staff need to implement during the creation, operation, and termination of their Federal advisory committees;
(c) Designate a CMO;
(d) Designate a DFO for each advisory committee and its subcommittees;
(e) Approve the advisory committee charters for establishments, renewals, re-establishments, or mergers;
(f) Provide a written determination stating the reasons for closing any advisory committee meeting to the public, in whole or in part, in accordance with the exemptions set forth in the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b(c);
(g) Review, at least annually, the need to continue each existing advisory committee, consistent with the public interest and the purpose or functions of each advisory committee;
(h) Determine that rates of compensation for members (if they are paid for their services) and staff of, and experts and consultants to advisory committees are justified and that levels of agency support are adequate;
(i) Develop procedures to assure that the advice or recommendations of advisory committees will not be inappropriately influenced by the appointing authority or by any special interest, but will instead be the result of the advisory committee's independent judgment;
(j) Assure that the interests and affiliations of committee members are reviewed for conformance with applicable conflict of interest statutes, regulations issued by the U.S. Office of Government Ethics including any supplemental agency requirements, and other Federal ethics rules;
(k) Appoint or invite individuals to serve on committees, unless otherwise provided for by a specific statute or Presidential directive; and
(l) Provide the opportunity for reasonable participation, including accessibility considerations, by the public in advisory committee activities, subject to § 102-3.140 and the agency's guidelines.
§ 102-3.110
What are the responsibilities of a chairperson of an independent Presidential advisory committee?
The chairperson of an independent Presidential advisory committee must:
(a) Comply with the Act, this part, and other applicable laws and regulations;
(b) Consult with the Secretariat concerning the designation of a CMO and DFO; and
(c) Consult with the Secretariat in advance regarding any proposal to close any meeting in whole or in part.
§ 102-3.115
What are the responsibilities and functions of an agency CMO?
In addition to implementing the provisions of sec. 8(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1007(b)), the CMO will carry out all responsibilities delegated by the agency head and manage the agency FACA program. Management includes consulting with the Secretariat on Federal advisory committees, as delegated by the agency head; tracking charter establishments, renewals, re-establishments, mergers, amendments, and terminations; coordinating the agency Annual Comprehensive Review within their agency and with the Secretariat; providing training for agency staff supporting the FACA program; working with GFOs, as appropriate, and DFOs; attending GSA Government-wide FACA training and recommending this training to agency staff, as appropriate; and attending Interagency Committee on Federal Advisory Committee Management meetings. The CMO should create and maintain an agency website to further the public's understanding of the agency's FACA program. The CMO also should ensure that secs. 10(b), 12(a), and 13 of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(b), 1011(a), and 1012, respectively) are implemented by the agency to provide for appropriate recordkeeping. Records to be kept by the CMO include, but are not limited to—
(a)
Charter and membership documentation.
A set of filed charters for each advisory committee and membership lists for each advisory committee and subcommittee;
(b)
Annual comprehensive review.
Copies of the information provided as the agency's portion of the annual comprehensive review of Federal advisory committees, prepared according to § 102-3.175(b);
(c)
Agency guidelines.
Agency guidelines maintained and updated on committee management operations and procedures; and
(d)
Closed meeting determinations.
Agency determinations to close or partially close advisory committee meetings required by § 102-3.105(f).
§ 102-3.120
What are the responsibilities and functions of a DFO?
(a) The agency head or, in the case of an independent Presidential advisory committee, the Secretariat, must designate a Federal officer or employee who must be either full-time or permanent part-time, to be the DFO for each advisory committee and its subcommittees, who must:
(1) Ensure that their committee activities comply with the Act, this part, their agency administrative procedures, and any other applicable laws and regulations;
(2) Approve or call all meetings of the advisory committee or subcommittee;
(3) Approve the agenda, except that this requirement does not apply to a Presidential advisory committee;
(4) Attend all advisory committee and subcommittee meetings for their duration;
(5) Fulfill the requirements under sec. 10(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(b));
(6) Adjourn any meeting when he or she determines it to be in the public interest;
(7) Chair any meeting when so directed by the agency head;
(8) Maintain information on advisory committee activities and provide such information to the public, as applicable; and
(9) Ensure advisory committee members and subcommittee members, as applicable, receive the appropriate training (
e.g.,
FACA overview, ethics training) for efficient operation and compliance with the Act and this part.
(b) The DFO should ensure a public facing website is created and maintained (that complies with the requirements of relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794) for each advisory committee, and include information such as: the advisory committee charter; relevant laws, regulations, and guidance; advisory committee member rosters and subcommittee member rosters, as applicable;
Federal Register
notices; meeting information (such as agendas, meeting materials, and minutes); reports and recommendations; and any other information that would increase the transparency and public understanding of advisory committee functions and activities and assist in fulfilling the requirements under sec. 10(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(b)).
§ 102-3.125
What is required to be included in an agency's administrative guidelines to implement an advisory committee?
An agency's administrative guidelines provide the details that advisory committee staff need to implement FACA requirements during the creation, operation, and termination of their advisory committees.
(a)
Advisory committee bylaws.
Advisory committee bylaws should be developed by the agency, with advisory committee input and buy-in. Agency guidelines should specify the content of bylaws and ensure that they provide clear operating procedures for advisory committee meetings, other committee activities, and the relationship between committee members, the DFO, and agency staff.
(b)
Advisory committee costs.
Agency guidelines must:
(1) Provide instructions on how to identify, calculate, and fully document advisory committee costs; and
(2) Ensure agency committee cost records match the data reported to Congress and the public through the FACA database.
§ 102-3.130
What policies apply to the appointment, and compensation or reimbursement of advisory committee members?
In developing guidelines to implement the Act, this part, and other applicable laws and regulations at the agency level, agency heads should address the following issues:
(a)
Appointment and terms of advisory committee members.
Unless otherwise provided by statute, Presidential directive, or other establishment authority, advisory committee members serve at the pleasure of the appointing or inviting authority. Membership terms are at the sole discretion of the appointing or inviting authority. Agency heads are encouraged to set member term limits, where possible, so that agencies continually ensure the committee is fairly balanced throughout the life of the advisory committee.
(b)
Compensation of advisory committee members.
Agencies are not required to pay and are not prohibited from paying their advisory committee members, unless required to or prohibited from doing so by statute or Presidential authority. In determining the rate of compensation (per § 102-3.105(h)) the agency head may establish appropriate rates of pay (including any applicable locality pay authorized by the President's Pay Agent under 5 U.S.C. 5304(h)) not to exceed the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 5315, unless a higher rate expressly is allowed by another statute. The agency may pay advisory committee members on either an hourly or a daily rate basis. The agency may not provide additional compensation in any form, such as bonuses or premium pay.
(c)
Other compensation considerations.
In establishing rates of pay for advisory committee members, the agency must comply with any applicable statutes, E.O.s, regulations, and administrative guidelines. In determining an appropriate rate of basic pay for advisory committee members, an agency must give consideration to the significance, scope, and technical complexity of the matters with which the advisory committee is concerned, and the qualifications required for the work involved.
(d)
Federal employees assigned to an advisory committee.
Federal employees serving as either an advisory committee member or as a staff person remain covered during the assignment by the compensation system of their employing agency. Federal employees serving as an advisory committee member or as a staff person must first obtain both the approval of their direct supervisor and the respective committee's DFO prior to serving in either capacity.
(e)
Other appointment considerations.
Any advisory committee staff person who is not a current Federal employee must be appointed in accordance with applicable agency procedures, in consultation with the DFO, and, as appropriate, the members of the advisory committee involved.
(f)
Travel expenses.
Advisory committee members, while engaged in the performance of their duties away from their homes or regular places of business, may be allowed reimbursement for travel expenses, including per diem, per the rates established for employees by the Administrator of General Services at 5 U.S.C. 5702.
(g)
Services for advisory committee members with disabilities.
While performing advisory committee duties, an advisory committee member with disabilities may be provided services by a personal assistant as those that may be provided to employees per 5 U.S.C. 3102. Additional accommodations should be discussed in order to maximize accessibility, including technology, per relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794.

# Subpart D—Advisory Committee Meeting and Recordkeeping Procedures
§ 102-3.135
What does this subpart cover and how does it apply?
This subpart establishes policies and procedures relating to meetings and other activities undertaken by advisory committees and their subcommittees. This subpart also outlines what records must be kept by Federal agencies and what other documentation, including advisory committee minutes and reports, must be prepared and made available to the public.
§ 102-3.140
What policies apply to advisory committee meetings?
(a) The agency head for a discretionary or non-discretionary advisory committee established or utilized by that agency, or the chairperson for an independent Presidential advisory committee, must ensure that:
(1) Each advisory committee meeting is held at a reasonable time and in a manner or place accessible to the public and includes consideration of affected communities, as appropriate, as well as facilities or technology that are readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, consistent with the requirements set forth in relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794;
(2) The physical meeting room is sufficient to accommodate advisory committee members, advisory committee or agency staff, and a reasonable number of interested members of the public. If electronic forums are used, agencies should opt for technology features that are compliant with relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794, accommodate advisory committee members, advisory committee or agency staff, and allow for maximum participation by members of the public, as appropriate;
(3) Any member of the public is permitted to file a written statement with the advisory committee, whether or not the statement is related to a specific meeting;
(4) Any member of the public may speak to or otherwise address the advisory committee if the agency's guidelines so permit; and
(5) Any advisory committee meeting conducted in whole or part through any electronic medium (such as a teleconference or through a virtual platform) meets the requirements of this subpart.
(b) The
Federal Register
notices, agendas, and supporting materials should be posted on the agency advisory committee website (if one exists) as soon as they are available or at the time they are provided to the advisory committee members.
§ 102-3.145
What policies apply to subcommittee meetings?
If a subcommittee provides advice or recommendations directly to a Federal officer or agency, or if its advice or recommendations will be adopted by the parent advisory committee without further deliberations by the parent advisory committee, then the subcommittee's meetings must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.
§ 102-3.150
How are advisory committee meetings announced to the public?
(a) A notice in the
Federal Register
must be published at least 15 calendar days prior to an advisory committee meeting, which includes:
(1) The name of the advisory committee (or subcommittee, if applicable);
(2) The time, date, physical place (and/or instructions to connect electronically), and purpose of the meeting;
(3) Whether meeting registration is required;
(4) A summary of the agenda, and/or topics to be discussed and instructions on how to access meeting materials;
(5) A statement whether all or part of the meeting is open to the public or closed; if the meeting is closed in whole or in part, state the reasons why, citing the specific exemption(s) of the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b(c);
(6) Instructions for submitting written comments, and oral comments if permitted;
(7) Instructions on how to submit a request for physical meeting or electronic meeting accommodations consistent with the requirements of E.O. 13166 and relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794; and
(8) The name and telephone number (or email) of the DFO or other responsible agency official, or agency electronic mailbox for the committee, to contact for additional information concerning the meeting.
(b) In exceptional circumstances, such as a national emergency or natural disaster, the agency or an independent Presidential advisory committee may give less than 15 calendar days notice, provided that the reasons for doing so are included in the advisory committee meeting notice published in the
Federal Register
.
(c) In addition to the
Federal Register,
and consistent with standard agency practice, agencies should announce meetings through additional notification methods, such as websites
and social media, considering the most appropriate methods to reach committee stakeholders, and with as much advance notice as possible.
§ 102-3.155
How are advisory committee meetings closed to the public?
To close all or part of an advisory committee meeting, the DFO must:
(a)
Obtain prior approval.
Submit a request to the agency head, or in the case of an independent Presidential advisory committee, the Secretariat, citing the specific exemption(s) of the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b(c), that justifies the closure. The request must provide the agency head or the Secretariat sufficient time (generally 30 calendar days) to review the matter in order to make a determination before publication of the meeting notice required by § 102-3.150;
(b)
Seek General Counsel review.
The Office of the General Counsel (or equivalent legal office) of the agency or, in the case of an independent Presidential advisory committee, GSA's Office of the General Counsel, should review all requests to close meetings;
(c)
Obtain agency determination.
If the agency head, or in the case of an independent Presidential advisory committee, GSA, finds that the request is consistent with the provisions of the Government in the Sunshine Act and FACA, the appropriate agency official must issue a determination that all or part of the meeting will be closed; and
(d)
Assure public access to determination.
The agency head or the chairperson of an independent Presidential advisory committee must make a copy of the determination available to the public upon request.
§ 102-3.160
What activities of an advisory committee are not subject to the notice and open meeting requirements of the Act?
The following activities of an advisory committee are excluded from the procedural requirements contained in this subpart:
(a)
Preparatory work.
Meetings of two or more advisory committee or subcommittee members convened solely to gather information, conduct research, or analyze relevant issues and facts in preparation for deliberation by advisory committee members in a public meeting of the advisory committee, or deliberation by subcommittee members in a public meeting of the subcommittee (where applicable). These meetings to conduct preparatory work do not include deliberation among advisory committee or subcommittee members; and
(b)
Administrative work.
Meetings of two or more advisory committee or subcommittee members convened solely to discuss administrative matters of the advisory committee or subcommittee (such as meeting logistics) or to receive administrative information from a Federal officer or agency (such as a briefing on ethics or FACA procedural requirements).
§ 102-3.165
How are advisory committee meetings documented?
(a) The agency head or, in the case of an independent Presidential advisory committee, the chairperson must ensure that detailed minutes of each advisory committee meeting, including one that is closed or partially closed to the public, are kept. The chairperson of each advisory committee must certify the accuracy of all minutes of advisory committee meetings.
(b) The minutes must include:
(1) The time, date, and place (or electronic format) of the advisory committee meeting;
(2) A list of the persons who were present at the meeting, including advisory committee members and staff, agency employees, and members of the public who presented oral or written statements;
(3) An accurate description of each matter discussed and the resolution, if any, made by the advisory committee regarding such matter; and
(4) Copies of each report or other materials received, issued, or approved by the advisory committee at the meeting.
(c) The DFO must ensure that minutes are certified for accuracy by the chairperson within 90 calendar days of the meeting to which they relate. Agencies should post the meeting minutes on the agency advisory committee website (if one exists) not later than 14 calendar days after the meeting minutes have been certified.
§ 102-3.170
How does an interested party obtain access to advisory committee records?
Timely access to advisory committee records is an important element of the public access requirements of the Act. Section 10(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(b)) provides for the contemporaneous availability of advisory committee records that, when taken in conjunction with the ability to attend committee meetings, provide a meaningful opportunity to comprehend fully the work undertaken by the advisory committee. Although certain advisory committee records may be withheld under an exemption to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), agencies may not require members of the public or other interested parties to use FOIA procedures in order to obtain records available under sec. 10(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(b)).
§ 102-3.175
What are the reporting and recordkeeping requirements for an advisory committee?
(a)
Presidential advisory committee follow-up report.
Within one year after a Presidential advisory committee has submitted a public report to the President, a follow-up report required by sec. 6(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1005(b)) must be prepared and transmitted to the Congress detailing the disposition of the advisory committee's recommendations. These reports are prepared and transmitted to the Congress as directed by the President, either by the President's delegate, by the agency responsible for providing support to a Presidential advisory committee, or by the responsible agency or organization designated in the charter of the Presidential advisory committee pursuant to § 102-3.75(f).
(b)
Annual comprehensive review of Federal advisory committees.
Per sec. 7(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1006(b)), GSA is required to conduct an Annual Comprehensive Review (ACR) of the activities and responsibilities of each Federal advisory committee that was in existence during any part of a Federal fiscal year. The Secretariat initiates this review, provides guidance to the agencies and departments on how to conduct the review, and closes out the ACR when all reviews have been completed. Federal agencies are responsible for reporting data on each advisory committee, such as its purpose, performance measures, subcommittees (if applicable), meeting, membership, and cost, into the GSA FACA database. CMOs, DFOs, and other responsible agency officials, such as GFOs, enter this data for the advisory committees they are responsible for in their agency. The FACA database provides transparency to the public on the activities of Federal advisory committees Government-wide. The database is also used by Congress to perform oversight of the FACA program, and by the general public, the media, and others to stay abreast of important developments resulting from Federal advisory committee activities.
(c)
Annual report of closed or partially closed meetings.
In accordance with sec. 10(d) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(d)), advisory committees holding closed or partially closed meetings must issue reports at least annually, setting forth a summary of activities and such related matters as would be informative to the public consistent with the policy of 5 U.S.C. 552(b).
(d)
Advisory committee reports.
Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552, copies of each report made by an advisory committee, including any report of closed or partially closed meetings as specified in paragraph (c) of this section and, where appropriate, background papers prepared by experts or consultants, must be filed with the Library of Congress as required by sec. 13 of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1012) for public inspection and use.
(e)
Advisory committee records.
Official records generated by or for an advisory committee must be retained for the duration of the advisory committee. Upon termination of the advisory committee, the records must be processed in accordance with the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. chapters 21 and 29 through 33, and regulations issued by the National Archives and Records Administration (see 36 CFR parts 1220, 1222, 1228, and 1234), or in accordance with the Presidential Records Act, 44 U.S.C. chapter 22.

# Subpart E—How Does This Subpart Apply to Advice or Recommendations Provided to Agencies by the National Academy of Sciences or the National Academy of Public Administration?
§ 102-3.180
What does this subpart cover and how does it apply?
This subpart provides guidance to agencies on compliance with sec. 15 of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1014). Section 15 establishes requirements that apply only in connection with a funding or other written agreement involving an agency's use of advice or recommendations provided to the agency by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) or the National Academy of Public Administration (NAPA), if such advice or recommendations were developed by use of a committee created by either academy. For purposes of this subpart, NAS also includes the National Academy of Engineering, the National Academy of Medicine, and the National Research Council. Except with respect to NAS committees that were the subject of judicial actions filed before December 17, 1997, no part of the Act other than sec. 15 applies to any committee created by NAS or NAPA.
§ 102-3.185
What does this subpart require agencies to do?
(a)
Section 15 requirements.
An agency may not use any advice or recommendation provided to an agency by NAS or NAPA under an agreement between the agency and an academy, if such advice or recommendation was developed by use of a committee created by either academy, unless:
(1) The committee was not subject to any actual management or control by an agency or officer of the Federal Government; and
(2) In the case of NAS, the academy certifies that it has complied substantially with the requirements of sec. 15(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1014(b)); or
(3) In the case of NAPA, the academy certifies that it has complied substantially with the requirements of sec. 15(b) (1), (2), and (5) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1014(b)(1), (2), and (5), respectively).
(b)
No agency management or control.
Agencies must not manage or control the specific procedures adopted by each academy to comply with the requirements of sec. 15 of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1014) that are applicable to that academy. In addition, however, any committee created and used by an academy in the development of any advice or recommendation to be provided by the academy to an agency must be subject to both actual management and control by that academy and not by the agency.
(c)
Funding agreements.
Agencies may enter into contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements with NAS or NAPA that are consistent with the requirements of this subpart to obtain advice or recommendations from such academy. These funding agreements require, and agencies may rely upon, a written certification by an authorized representative of the academy provided to the agency upon delivery to the agency of each report containing advice or recommendations required under the agreement that:
(1) The academy has adopted policies and procedures that comply with the applicable requirements of sec. 15 of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1014); and
(2) To the best of the authorized representative's knowledge and belief, these policies and procedures substantially have been complied with in performing the work required under the agreement.

# Subpart F—Severability
§ 102-3.190
What portions of this part are severable?
All provisions of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any provision is stayed or determined to be invalid, it is GSA's intention that the remaining provisions shall continue in effect.
PART 102-4—NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS [RESERVED]
Pt. 102-5

# PART 102-5—HOME-TO-WORK TRANSPORTATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
102-5.5
Preamble.
102-5.10
What does this part cover?
102-5.15
Who is covered by this part?
102-5.20
Who is not covered by this part?
102-5.25
What additional guidance concerning home-to-work transportation should Federal agencies issue?
102-5.30
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Authorizing Home-to-Work Transportation
102-5.35
Who is authorized for home-to-work transportation?
102-5.40
May the agency head delegate the authority to make home-to-work determinations?
102-5.45
Should determinations be completed before an employee is provided with home-to-work transportation?
102-5.50
May determinations be made in advance for employees who respond to unusual circumstances when they arise?
102-5.55
How do we prepare determinations?
102-5.60
How long are initial determinations effective?
102-5.65
What procedures apply when the need for home-to-work transportation exceeds the initial period?
102-5.70
What considerations apply in making a determination to authorize home-to-work transportation for field work?
102-5.75
What circumstances do not establish a basis for authorizing home-to-work transportation for field work?
102-5.80
What are some examples of positions that may involve field work?
102-5.85
What information should our determination for field work include if positions are identified rather than named individuals?
102-5.90
Should an agency consider whether to base a Government passenger carrier at a Government facility near the employee's home or work rather than authorize home-to-work transportation?
102-5.95
Is the comfort and/or convenience of an employee considered sufficient justification to authorize home-to-work transportation?
102-5.100
May we use home-to-work transportation for other than official purposes?
102-5.105
May others accompany an employee using home-to-work transportation?

# Subpart C—Documenting and Reporting Determinations
102-5.110
Must we report our determinations outside of our agency?
102-5.115
When must we report our determinations?
102-5.120
What are our responsibilities for documenting use of home-to-work transportation?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); 31 U.S.C. 1344(e)(1).

# Source:
65 FR 54966, Sept. 12, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 102-5.5
Preamble.
(a) The questions and associated answers in this part are regulatory in effect. Thus compliance with the written text of this part is required by all to whom it applies.
(b) The terms “we,” “I,” “our,” “you,” and “your,” when used in this part, mean you as a Federal agency, an agency head, or an employee, as appropriate.
§ 102-5.10
What does this part cover?
This part covers the use of Government passenger carriers to transport employees between their homes and places of work.
§ 102-5.15
Who is covered by this part?
This part covers Federal agency employees in the executive, judicial, and legislative branches of the Government, with the exception of employees of the Senate, House of Representatives, Architect of the Capitol, and government of the District of Columbia.
§ 102-5.20
Who is not covered by this part?
This part does not cover:
(a) Employees who use a passenger carrier in conjunction with official travel, including temporary duty (TDY) or relocation;
(b) Employees who are essential for the safe and efficient performance of intelligence, counterintelligence, protective services, or criminal law enforcement duties when designated in writing as such by their agency head; or
(c) Employees who use a passenger carrier for transportation between places of employment and mass transit facilities (
see, e.g.,
41 CFR 102-34.210).
[65 FR 54966, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 41995, July 20, 2010]
§ 102-5.25
What additional guidance concerning home-to-work transportation should Federal agencies issue?
Each Federal agency using Government passenger carriers to provide home-to-work transportation for employees who are essential for the safe and efficient performance of intelligence, counterintelligence, protective services, or criminal law enforcement duties should issue guidance concerning such use.
§ 102-5.30
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Agency head
means the highest official of a Federal agency.
Clear and present danger
means highly unusual circumstances that present a threat to the physical safety of the employee or their property when the danger is:
(1) Real; and
(2) Immediate or imminent, not merely potential; and
(3) The use of a Government passenger carrier would provide protection not otherwise available.
Compelling operational considerations
means those circumstances where home-to-work transportation is essential to the conduct of official business or would substantially increase a Federal agency's efficiency and economy.
Emergency
means circumstances that exist whenever there is an immediate, unforeseeable, temporary need to provide home-to-work transportation for those employees necessary to the uninterrupted performance of the agency's mission. (An emergency may occur where there is a major disruption of available means of transportation to or from a work site, an essential Government service must be provided, and there is no other way to transport those employees.)
Employee
means a Federal officer or employee of a Federal agency, including an officer or enlisted member of the Armed Forces.
Federal agency
means:
(1) A department (as defined in section 18 of the Act of August 2, 1946 (41 U.S.C. 5a));
(2) An executive department (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101);
(3) A military department (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102);
(4) A Government corporation (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 103(1));
(5) A Government controlled corporation (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 103(2));
(6) A mixed-ownership Government corporation (as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(2));
(7) Any establishment in the executive branch of the Government (including the Executive Office of the President);
(8) Any independent regulatory agency (including an independent regulatory agency specified in 44 U.S.C. 3502(10));
(9) The Smithsonian Institution;
(10) Any nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the United States; and
(11) The United States Postal Service.
Field work
means official work requiring the employee's presence at various locations other than their regular place of work. (Multiple stops (itinerant-type travel) within the accepted local commuting area, limited use beyond the local commuting area, or transportation to remote locations that are only accessible by Government-provided transportation are examples of field work.)
Home
means the primary place where an employee resides and from which the employee commutes to their place of work.
Home-to-work transportation
means the use of a Government passenger carrier to transport an employee between their home and place of work.
Passenger carrier
means a motor vehicle, aircraft, boat, ship, or other similar means of transportation that is owned (including those that have come into the possession of the Government by forfeiture or donation), leased, or rented (non-TDY) by the United States Government.
Work
means any place within the accepted commuting area, as determined
by the Federal agency for the locality involved, where an employee performs their official duties.
[65 FR 54966, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]

# Subpart B—Authorizing Home-to-Work Transportation
§ 102-5.35
Who is authorized for home-to-work transportation?
By statute, certain Federal officials are authorized for home-to-work transportation, as are employees who meet certain statutory criteria as determined by their agency head. The Federal officials authorized by statute are the President, the Vice-President, and other principal Federal officials and their designees, as provided in 31 U.S.C. 1344(b)(1) through (b)(7). Those employees engaged in field work, or faced with a clear and present danger, an emergency, or a compelling operational consideration may be authorized for home-to-work transportation as determined by their agency head. No other employees are transportation.
[65 FR 54966, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-5.40
May the agency head delegate the authority to make home-to-work determinations?
No, the agency head may not delegate the authority to make home-to-work determinations.
§ 102-5.45
Should determinations be completed before an employee is provided with home-to-work transportation?
Yes, determinations should be completed before an employee is provided with home-to-work transportation unless it is impracticable to do so.
§ 102-5.50
May determinations be made in advance for employees who respond to unusual circumstances when they arise?
Yes, determinations may be made in advance when the Federal agency wants to have employees ready to respond to:
(a) A clear and present danger;
(b) An emergency; or
(c) A compelling operational consideration.

# Note to § 102-5.50:
Implementation of these determinations is contingent upon one of the three circumstances occurring. Thus, these may be referred to as “contingency determinations.”
§ 102-5.55
How do we prepare determinations?
Determinations must be in writing and include the:
(a) Name and title of the employee (or other identification, if confidential);
(b) Reason for authorizing home-to-work transportation; and
(c) Anticipated duration of the authorization.
§ 102-5.60
How long are initial determinations effective?
Initial determinations are effective for no longer than:
(a) Two years for field work, updated as necessary; and
(b) Fifteen days for other circumstances.
§ 102-5.65
What procedures apply when the need for home-to-work transportation exceeds the initial period?
The agency head may approve unlimited subsequent determinations, when the need for home-to-work transportation exceeds the initial period, for no longer than:
(a) Two years each for field work, updated as necessary; and
(b) Ninety calendar days each for other circumstances.
§ 102-5.70
What considerations apply in making a determination to authorize home-to-work transportation for field work?
Agencies should consider the following when making a determination to authorize home-to-work transportation for field work:
(a) The location of the employee's home in proximity to their work and to the locations where non-TDY travel is required; and
(b) The use of home-to-work transportation for field work should be authorized only to the extent that such
transportation will substantially increase the efficiency and economy of the Government.
[65 FR 54966, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-5.75
What circumstances do not establish a basis for authorizing home-to-work transportation for field work?
The following circumstances do not establish a basis for authorizing home-to-work transportation for field work:
(a) When an employee assigned to field work is not actually performing field work.
(b) When the employee's workday begins at their work; or
(c) When the employee normally commutes to a fixed location, however far removed from their official duty station (for example, auditors or investigators assigned to a defense contractor plant).

# Note to § 102-5.75:
For instances where an employee is authorized for home-to-work transportation under the field work provision, but performs field work only on an intermittent basis, the agency shall establish procedures to ensure that a Government passenger carrier is used only when field work is actually being performed. Although some employees' daily workstation is not located in a Government office, these employees are not performing field work. Like all Government employees, employees working in a “field office” are responsible for their own commuting costs.
[65 FR 54966, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-5.80
What are some examples of positions that may involve field work?
Examples of positions that may involve field work include, but are not limited to:
(a) Quality assurance inspectors;
(b) Construction inspectors;
(c) Dairy inspectors;
(d) Mine inspectors;
(e) Meat inspectors; and
(f) Medical officers on outpatient service.

# Note to § 102-5.80:
The assignment of an employee to such a position does not, of itself, entitle an employee to receive daily home-to-work transportation.
§ 102-5.85
What information should our determination for field work include if positions are identified rather than named individuals?
If positions are identified rather than named individuals, your determination for field work should include sufficient information to satisfy an audit, if necessary. This information should include the job title, number, and operational level where the work is to be performed (e.g., five recruiter personnel or, positions at the Detroit Army Recruiting Battalion).

# Note to § 102-5.85:
An agency head may elect to designate positions rather than individual names, especially in positions where rapid turnover occurs.
§ 102-5.90
Should an agency consider whether to base a Government passenger carrier at a Government facility near the employee's home or work rather than authorize home-to-work transportation?
Yes, situations may arise where, for cost or other reasons, it is in the Government's interest to base a Government passenger carrier at a Government facility located near the home-to-work rather than authorize the home-to-work transportation.
[65 FR 54966, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-5.95
Is the comfort and/or convenience of an employee considered sufficient justification to authorize home-to-work transportation?
No, the comfort and/or convenience of an employee is not considered sufficient justification to authorize home-to-work transportation.
§ 102-5.100
May we use home-to-work transportation for other than official purposes?
No, you may not use home-to-work transportation for other than official purposes. However, if your agency has prescribed rules for the incidental use of Government vehicles (as provided in 31 U.S.C. note), you may use the vehicle in accordance with those rules in connection with an existing home-to-work authorization.
§ 102-5.105
May others accompany an employee using home-to-work transportation?
Yes, an employee authorized for home-to-work transportation may share space in a Government passenger carrier with other individuals, provided that the passenger carrier does not travel additional distances as a result and such sharing is consistent with the employee's Federal agency's policy. When a Federal agency establishes its space sharing policy, the Federal agency should consider its potential liability for and to those individuals. Home-to-work transportation does not extend to the employee's spouse, other relatives, or friends unless they travel with the employee from the same point of departure to the same destination, and this use is consistent with the Federal agency's policy.
[65 FR 54966, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]

# Subpart C—Documenting and Reporting Determinations
§ 102-5.110
Must we report our determinations outside of our agency?
Yes, you must submit your determinations to the following Congressional Committees:
(a) Chairman, Committee on Governmental Affairs, United States Senate, Suite SD-340, Dirksen Senate Office Building, Washington, DC 20510-6250; and
(b) Chairman, Committee on Governmental Reform, United States House of Representatives, Suite 2157, Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515-6143.
§ 102-5.115
When must we report our determinations?
You must report your determinations to Congress no later than 60 calendar days after approval. You may consolidate any subsequent determinations into a single report and submit them quarterly.
§ 102-5.120
What are our responsibilities for documenting use of home-to-work transportation?
Your responsibilities for documenting use of home-to-work transportation are that you must maintain logs or other records necessary to verify that any home-to-work transportation was for official purposes. Each agency may decide the organizational level at which the logs should be maintained and kept. The logs or other records should be easily accessible for audit and should contain:
(a) Name and title of employee (or other identification, if confidential) using the passenger carrier;
(b) Name and title of person authorizing use;
(c) Passenger carrier identification;
(d) Date(s) home-to-work transportation is authorized;
(e) Location of residence;
(f) Duration; and
(g) Circumstances requiring home-to-work transportation.
PARTS 102-6—102-30 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER B—PERSONAL PROPERTY
PART 102-31—GENERAL [RESERVED]
PART 102-32—MANAGEMENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY [RESERVED]
Pt. 102-33

# PART 102-33—MANAGEMENT OF GOVERNMENT AIRCRAFT

# Subpart A—How These Rules Apply

# General
Sec.
102-33.5
To whom do these rules apply?
102-33.6
How are the terms “we,” “you,” “your,” and “our” used in this part?
102-33.10
May we request approval to deviate from these rules?
102-33.15
How does this part relate to Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations?
102-33.20
What definitions apply to this part?

# Responsibilities
102-33.25
What are our responsibilities under this part?
102-33.30
What are the duties of an agency's Senior Aviation Management Official (SAMO)?
102-33.35
How can we get help in carrying out our responsibilities?
102-33.40
What are some of GSA's responsibilities for Federal aviation management?

# Subpart B—Acquiring Government Aircraft and Aircraft Parts

# Overview
102-33.50
Under what circumstances may we acquire Government aircraft?
102-33.55
Are there restrictions on acquiring Government aircraft?
102-33.60
What methods may we use to acquire Government aircraft?
102-33.65
What is the process for acquiring Government aircraft?

# Planning to Acquire Government Aircraft
102-33.70
What directives must we follow when planning to acquire Government aircraft?
102-33.75
What other guidance is available to us in planning to acquire Government aircraft?

# OMB Circular A-76
102-33.80
Must we comply with OMB Circular A-76 before we acquire Government aircraft?

# The Process for Budgeting To Acquire Government Aircraft
102-33.90
What is the process for budgeting to acquire a Federal aircraft (including a Federal aircraft transferred from another executive agency)?
102-33.95
What is the process for budgeting to acquire Commercial Aviation Services (CAS)?

# Contracting to Acquire Government Aircraft
102-33.100
What are our responsibilities when contracting to purchase or capital lease a Federal aircraft or to award a CAS contract?
102-33.105
What minimum requirements must we put into our CAS contracts?

# Acquiring Aircraft Parts
102-33.110
What are our responsibilities when acquiring aircraft parts?
102-33.115
Are there requirements for acquiring military Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP)?
102-33.120
Are there requirements for acquiring life-limited parts?

# Subpart C—Managing Government Aircraft and Aircraft Parts

# Overview
102-33.125
If we use Federal aircraft, what are our management responsibilities?
102-33.130
If we hire CAS, what are our management responsibilities?
102-33.135
Do we have to follow the direction in OMB Circular A-123, “Management's Accountability and Control,” for establishing management controls for our aviation program?

# Establishing Flight Program Standards
102-33.140
What are Flight Program Standards?
102-33.145
Why must we establish Flight Program Standards?
102-33.150
What Federally-funded aviation activities of executive agencies are exempt from establishing Flight Program Standards under this part?
102-33.155
How must we establish Flight Program Standards?

# Management/Administration
102-33.160
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for management/administration of our flight program?

# Operations
102-33.165
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for operation of our flight program?

# Maintenance
102-33.170
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for maintenance of our Government aircraft?

# Training
102-33.175
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) to train our flight program personnel?

# Safety
102-33.180
What standards should we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for aviation safety management?
102-33.185
What standards should we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for responding to aircraft accidents and incidents?

# Accounting for the Costs of Government Aircraft
102-33.190
What are the aircraft operations and ownership costs for which we must account?
102-33.195
Do we need an automated system to account for aircraft costs?
102-33.200
Must we periodically justify owning and operating Federal aircraft?
102-33.205
When we use our aircraft to support other executive agencies, must we recover the operating costs?

# Accounting for the Use of Government Aircraft
102-33.210
How do we account for the use of our Government aircraft?
102-33.215
May we use Government aircraft to carry passengers?
102-33.220
What are the responsibilities of our aviation program in justifying the use of a Government aircraft to transport passengers?

# Managing Aircraft Parts
102-33.225
How must we manage aircraft parts?
102-33.230
May we use military FSCAP on non-military FAA-type certificated Government aircraft?
102-33.235
What documentation must we maintain for life-limited parts and FSCAP?

# Subpart D—Disposing or Replacing of Government Aircraft and Aircraft Parts

# Overview
102-33.240
What must we consider before disposing or replacing aircraft and aircraft parts?
102-33.245
May we report as excess, or replace (
i.e.,
by exchange/sale), both operational and non-operational aircraft?
102-33.250
May we declassify aircraft?
102-33.255
Must we document FSCAP or life-limited parts installed on aircraft that we will report as excess or replace?
102-33.260
When we report as excess, or replace, an aircraft (including a declassified aircraft), must we report the change in inventory to the Federal Aviation Interactive Reporting System (FAIRS)?

# Reporting Excess Federal Aircraft
102-33.265
What must we do with aircraft that are excess to our needs?
102-33.270
What is the process for reporting an excess aircraft?

# Replacing Aircraft Through Exchange/Sale
102-33.275
What should we consider before replacing our aircraft through an exchange/sale?
102-33.280
What are our options if we need a replacement aircraft?
102-33.285
Do we need to include any special disclaimers in our exchange/sale agreements for non-certificated aircraft or aircraft that we have operated as public aircraft (
i.e.,
not in compliance with 14 CFR)?
102-33.295
May we exchange/sell an aircraft through reimbursable transfer to another executive agency or conduct a negotiated sale at fixed price to a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)?

# Disposing of Aircraft Parts
102-33.300
What must we consider before disposing of aircraft parts?
102-33.305
May we report as excess, or replace, FSCAP and life-limited parts?
102-33.310
May we report as excess, or replace, unsalvageable aircraft parts?
102-33.315
What are the procedures for mutilating unsalvageable aircraft parts?
102-33.320
What must we do if we are unable to perform required mutilation of aircraft parts?
102-33.325
What documentation must we furnish with excess, surplus, or replaced parts when they are transferred, donated, exchanged, or sold?

# Reporting Excess Aircraft Parts
102-33.330
What must we do with aircraft parts that are excess to our needs?
102-33.335
What are the receiving agency's responsibilities in the transfer of aircraft parts?
102-33.340
What are GSA's responsibilities in disposing of excess and surplus aircraft parts?
102-33.345
What are the responsibilities of a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP) in the donation of Federal Government aircraft parts?

# Replacing Aircraft Parts Through Exchange/Sale
102-33.350
What do we need to consider for an exchange/sale of our aircraft parts?
102-33.355
May we exchange/sell aircraft parts through a reimbursable transfer to another executive agency or conduct a negotiated sale at fixed price to a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)?
102-33.360
What is the process for exchanging/selling aircraft parts for replacement?
102-33.365
Must we report exchange/sale of parts to FAIRS?

# Special Requirements for Disposing of Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP) and Life-Limited Parts
102-33.370
What must we do to dispose of military FSCAP and/or life-limited parts?
102-33.375
What is a FSCAP Criticality Code?

# Subpart E—Reporting Information on Government Aircraft

# Overview
102-33.380
Who must report information to GSA on Government aircraft?
102-33.385
What Federally-funded aviation activities of executive agencies are exempt from the requirement to report information to GSA on Government aircraft?
102-33.390
What information must we report on Government aircraft?

# Federal Aviation Interactive Reporting System (FAIRS)
102-33.395
What is FAIRS?
102-33.400
How must we report to FAIRS?
102-33.405
When must we report to FAIRS?

# Federal Inventory Data
102-33.410
What are Federal inventory data?
102-33.415
When may we declassify an aircraft and remove it from our Federal aircraft inventory?
102-33.420
How must we declassify an aircraft?

# Federal Aircraft Cost and Utilization Data
102-33.425
What Federal aircraft cost and utilization data must we report?
102-33.430
Who must report Federal aircraft cost and utilization data?

# Commercial Aviation Services (CAS) Cost and Utilization Data
102-33.435
What CAS cost and utilization data must we report?
102-33.440
Who must report CAS cost and utilization data?

# Accident and Incident Data
102-33.445
What accident and incident data must we report?
102-33.450
How must we report accident and incident data?

# Common Aviation Management Information Standard (C-AMIS)
102-33.455
What is C-AMIS?
102-33.460
What is our responsibility in relation to C-AMIS?

# Performance Indicators
102-33.465
What is a performance indicator?
102-33.470
Must we develop performance indicators?
102-33.475
What are some examples of performance indicators that we can use?
Appendix A to Part 102-33—Disclosure Statement for Crewmembers and Qualified Non-Crewmembers Flying on Board Government Aircraft Operated as Public Aircraft

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); 31 U.S.C. 101
et seq.;
Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1970, 35 FR 7959, 3 CFR, 1066-1970 Comp., p. 1070; Executive Order 11541, 35 FR 10737, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 939; and OMB Circular No. A-126 (Revised May 22, 1992), 57 FR 22150.

# Source:
79 FR 77336, Dec. 23, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—How These Rules Apply

# General
§ 102-33.5
To whom do these rules apply?
(a) The rules in this part apply to all Federally-funded aviation activities of executive branch agencies of the U.S. Government who use Government aircraft to accomplish their official business, except for the exemptions listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The rules in this part do not apply to the following:
(1) The Armed Forces, except for:
(i) Section 102-33.25(e) and (g), which concern responsibilities related to the Interagency Committee for Aviation Policy (ICAP); and
(ii) Subpart D of this part, “Disposing of Government Aircraft and Aircraft Parts.”
(2) The President or Vice President and their offices;
(3) Aircraft when an executive agency provides Government-furnished avionics for commercially owned or privately owned aircraft for the purposes of technology demonstration or testing; and
(4) Privately owned aircraft that agency personnel use for official travel (even though such use is Federally-funded).
§ 102-33.6
How are the terms “we,” “you,” “your,” and “our” used in this part?
In this part, “we”, “you”, “your”, and “our” refer to agency aviation managers or an executive agency.
§ 102-33.10
May we request approval to deviate from these rules?
(a) You may request approval to deviate from the rules in this part. See §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter for guidance on requesting a deviation. In most cases, GSA will respond to your written request within 30 days;
(b) GSA may not grant deviations from the requirements of OMB Circular A-126, “Improving the Management of Government Aircraft;” and
(c) You should consult with GSA's Aviation Policy Division before you request a deviation.
§ 102-33.15
How does this part relate to Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations?
This part does not supersede any of the regulations in 14 CFR Chapter I, “Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation.”
§ 102-33.20
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Acquire
means to procure or otherwise obtain personal property, including by lease or rent.
Acquisition date
means the date that the acquiring executive agency took responsibility for the aircraft,
e.g.,
received title (through purchase, exchange, or gift), signed a bailment agreement with the Department of Defense (DOD), took physical custody, received a court order, put into operational status an aircraft that is newly manufactured by the agency, or otherwise accepted physical transfer (
e.g.,
in the case of a borrowed aircraft).
Aircraft part
means an individual component or an assembly of components that is used on aircraft.
Armed Forces
mean the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, including their regular and Reserve components and members serving without component status. For purposes of this part, the National Guard is also included in the Armed Forces.
Aviation life support equipment (ALSE)
means equipment that protects flight crewmembers and others aboard an aircraft, assisting their safe escape, survival, and recovery during an accident or other emergency.
Aviation Policy Division
is a division in the Office of Asset and Transportation Management, Office of Government-wide Policy, GSA. Contact the staff via the Aircraft Management Overview page at
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy.
Crewmember
means a person assigned to operate or assist in operating an aircraft during flight time. Crewmembers perform duties directly related to the operation of the aircraft (
e.g.,
as pilots, co-pilots, flight engineers, navigators) or duties assisting in operation of the aircraft (
e.g.,
as flight directors, crew chiefs, electronics technicians, mechanics). See also the terms and definitions for “Qualified non-crewmember” and “Passenger” in this section.
Criticality code
means a single digit code that DOD assigns to military Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP) (see §§ 102-33.115 and 102-33.370).
Data plate
means a fireproof plate that is inscribed with certain information required by 14 CFR part 45 (or for military surplus aircraft, as required by Military Specifications), and secured to an aircraft, aircraft engine, or propeller. The information must be
marked by etching, stamping, engraving, or other approved method of fireproof marking. The plate must be attached in such a manner that it is not likely to be defaced or removed during normal service or lost or destroyed in an accident. Data plates are required only on certificated aircraft. However, non-certificated aircraft may also have data plates.
Declassify
means to remove a lost, destroyed, or non-operational aircraft from the Federal aircraft inventory. Agencies may declassify only non-operational aircraft that they will retain for ground use only. Agencies must declassify an aircraft following the rules in §§ 102-33.415 and 102-33.420.
Disposal date
means the date that the disposing executive agency relinquishes responsibility for an aircraft, for example, when the agency transfers title in the case of an exchange/sale; returns the aircraft to the lessor or bailer; declassifies it (for FAIRS, declassification is considered a “disposal” action, even though the agency retains the property); or relinquishes custody to another agency (
i.e.,
in the case of excess (transferred) or surplus (donated or sold) aircraft).
Donated aircraft
means an aircraft disposed of as surplus by GSA through donation to a non-Federal government, a tax-exempt nonprofit entity, or other eligible recipient, following the rules in part § 102-37 (some agencies, for example DOD, may have independent donation authority.)
Exchange
means to replace personal property by trade or trade-in with the supplier of the replacement property.
Exchange/sale
means to exchange or sell non-excess, non-surplus personal property and apply the exchange allowance or proceeds of sale in whole or in part payment for the acquisition of similar property. See 40 U.S.C. 503.
Exclusive use
means a condition under which an aircraft is operated for the sole benefit of the U.S. Government.
Executive agency
means any executive department or independent establishment in the executive branch of the United States Government, including any wholly owned Government corporation. See 5 U.S.C. 105.
Federal Acquisition Service (FAS)
means a component of GSA. FAS is organized by geographical regions. The FAS Property Management Division in GSA's Pacific Rim Region, 450 Golden Gate Ave., San Francisco, CA 94102-3434, has responsibility for disposing of excess and surplus aircraft.
Federal aircraft
means manned or unmanned aircraft that an executive agency owns (
i.e.,
holds title to) or borrows for any length of time. Federal aircraft include—
(1) Bailed aircraft: Federal aircraft that is owned by one executive agency, but is in the custody of and operated by another executive agency under an agreement that may or may not include cost-reimbursement. Bailments are executive agency to executive agency agreements and involve only aircraft, not services;
(2) Borrowed aircraft: Aircraft owned by a non-executive agency and provided to an executive agency for use without compensation. The executive agency operates and maintains the aircraft;
(3) Forfeited aircraft: Aircraft acquired by the Government either by summary process or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to any law of the United States;
(4) Loaned aircraft: Federal aircraft owned by an executive agency, but in the custody of a non-executive agency under an agreement that does not include compensation; and
(5) Owned aircraft: An aircraft for which title or rights of title are vested in an executive agency.

# Note to definition of Federal aircraft:
When an executive agency loans or bails an aircraft that meets the criteria for Federal aircraft, the loaned or bailed aircraft is still considered a Federal aircraft in the owning agency's inventory, except when DOD is the owning agency of a bailed aircraft. In that case, the aircraft is recorded in the inventory of the bailee.
Federal Aviation Interactive Reporting System (FAIRS)
is a management information system operated by GSA to collect, maintain, analyze, and report information on Federal aircraft inventories and cost and usage of Federal aircraft and CAS aircraft (and related services) (see §§ 102-33.395 through 102-33.440).
Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Part (FSCAP)
means any aircraft part, assembly, or installation containing a critical characteristic whose failure, malfunction, or absence could cause a catastrophic failure resulting in loss or serious damage to the aircraft or an uncommanded engine shutdown resulting in an unsafe condition.
Full service contract
means a contractual agreement through which an executive agency acquires an aircraft and related aviation services (
e.g.,
pilot, crew, maintenance, catering) for exclusive use. Aircraft hired under full service contracts are commercial aviation services (CAS), not Federal aircraft, regardless of the length of the contract.
Government aircraft
means manned or unmanned aircraft operated for the exclusive use of an executive agency. Government aircraft include—
(1) Federal aircraft (see definition for “Federal aircraft” in this section); and
(2) Aircraft hired as commercial aviation services (CAS). CAS include—
(i) Leased aircraft for exclusive use for an agreed upon period of time (The acquiring executive agency operates and maintains the aircraft);
(ii) Capital lease aircraft for which the leasing agency holds an option to take title;
(iii) Charter aircraft for hire under a contractual agreement for one-time exclusive use that specifies performance (The commercial source operates and maintains a charter aircraft);
(iv) Rental aircraft obtained commercially under an agreement in which the executive agency has exclusive use for an agreed upon period of time (The executive agency operates, but does not maintain, a rental aircraft);
(v) Contracting for full services (
i.e.,
aircraft and related aviation services for exclusive use); or
(vi) Obtaining related aviation services (
i.e.,
services but not aircraft) by commercial contract, except those services acquired to support a Federal aircraft.
Governmental function
means a Federally-funded activity that an executive agency performs in compliance with its statutory authorities.
Intelligence community
means those agencies identified in the National Security Act, 50 U.S.C. 401a(4).
Inter-service support agreement (ISSA)
means any agreement between two or more executive agencies (including the Department of Defense) in which one agency consents to perform aviation support services (
e.g.,
providing an aircraft and other aviation services or providing only services) for another agency with or without cost-reimbursement. An executive agency-to-executive agency agreement that involves only the use of an aircraft, not services, is a bailment, not an ISSA.
Life-limited part
means any aircraft part that has an established replacement time, inspection interval, or other time-related procedure associated with it. For non-military parts, the FAA specifies life-limited part airworthiness limitations in 14 CFR 21.50, 23.1529, 25.1529, 27.1529, 29.1529, 31.82, 33.4, and 35.5, and on product Type Certificate Data Sheets (TCDS). Letters authorizing Technical Standards Orders (TSO) must also note or reference mandatory replacement or inspection of parts.
Military aircraft part
means an aircraft part used on an aircraft that was developed by the Armed Forces (whether or not it carries an FAA airworthiness certificate).
Non-operational aircraft
means a Federal aircraft that is not safe for flight and, in the owning executive agency's determination, cannot economically be made safe for flight. This definition refers to the aircraft's flight capability, not its mission-support equipment capability. An aircraft that is temporarily out of service for maintenance or repair and can economically be made safe for flight is considered an operational aircraft.
Official Government business
in relation to Government aircraft—
(1) Includes, but is not limited to—
(i) Carrying crewmembers, qualified non-crewmembers, and cargo directly required for or associated with performing Governmental functions (including travel-related Governmental functions);
(ii) Carrying passengers authorized to travel on Government aircraft (see OMB Circular A-126); and
(iii) Training pilots and other aviation personnel.
(2) Does not include—
(i) Using Government aircraft for personal or political purposes, except for required use travel and space available travel as defined in OMB Circular A-126; or
(ii) Carrying passengers who are not officially authorized to travel on Government aircraft.
Operational aircraft
means a Federal aircraft that is safe for flight or, in the owning executive agency's determination, can economically be made safe for flight. This definition refers to the aircraft's flight capability, not its mission-support capability. An aircraft temporarily out of service for maintenance or repair is considered an operational aircraft.
Original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
means the person or company who originally designed, engineered, and manufactured, or who currently holds the data rights to manufacture, a specific aircraft or aircraft part. Parts produced under a Parts Manufacturer Approval (PMA) are not considered OEM parts, even though they can be acceptable replacement parts for OEM parts.
Passenger
means a person flying onboard a Government aircraft who is officially authorized to travel and who is not a crewmember or qualified non-crewmember.
Performance indicator
means a quantitative or qualitative term or value for reporting organizational activities and results, generally with respect to achieving specific goals related to outcomes, outputs, efficiency, and inputs. When applied to aircraft, performance indicators typically measure the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes involved with safely delivering aircraft services.
Production approval holder (PAH)
means the person or company who holds a Production Certificate (PC), Approved Production Inspection System (APIS), Parts Manufacturer Approval (PMA), or Technical Standards Orders Authorization (TSOA), issued under provisions of 14 CFR part 21, Certification Procedures for Products and Parts, and who controls the design, manufacture, and quality of a specific aircraft part.
Qualified non-crewmember
means an individual, other than a member of the crew, aboard an aircraft—
(1) Operated by an United States Government agency in the intelligence community; or
(2) Whose presence is required to perform or is associated with performing the Governmental function for which the aircraft is being operated (Qualified non-crewmembers are not passengers).
Registration mark
means the unique identification mark that is assigned by the FAA and displayed on U.S.-registered Government aircraft (except Armed Forces aircraft). Foreign-registered aircraft hired as CAS will carry their national registration markings. Registration markings are commonly referred to as tail numbers.
Related aviation services
contract
means a commercial contractual agreement through which an executive agency hires aviation services only (not aircraft),
e.g.,
pilot, crew, maintenance, cleaning, dispatching, or catering.
Required use travel
means use of a Government aircraft for the travel of an executive agency officer or employee where the use of the Government aircraft is required because of bona fide communications or security need of the agency or exceptional scheduling requirements. Required use travel must be approved as described in OMB Circular A-126.
Risk analysis and management
means a systematic process for—
(1) Identifying risks and hazards associated with alternative courses of action involved in an aviation operation;
(2) Choosing from among these alternatives the course(s) of action that will promote optimum aviation safety;
(3) Assessing the likelihood and predicted severity of an injurious mishap within the various courses of action;
(4) Controlling and mitigating identified risks and hazards within the chosen course(s) of action; and
(5) Periodically reviewing the chosen course(s) of action to identify possible emerging risks and hazards.
Safe for flight
means approved for flight and refers to an aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, or part that has been inspected and certified to meet the requirements of applicable
regulations, specifications, or standards. When applied to an aircraft that an executive agency operates under FAA regulations, safe for flight means “airworthy,”
i.e.,
the aircraft or related parts meet their design specifications and are in a condition, relative to wear and deterioration, for safe operation. When applied to an aircraft that an executive agency uses, but does not operate under the FAA regulations, safe for flight means a state of compliance with military specifications or the executive agency's own Flight Program Standards, and as approved, inspected, and certified by the agency.
Safety Management System (SMS)
means a formal, top-down business-like approach to managing safety risk. It includes systematic procedures, practices, and policies for the management of safety, safety risk management, safety policy, safety assurance, and safety promotion. For more information on SMS, refer to FAA Advisory Circular 120-92, “Safety Management Systems for Aviation Service Providers.”
Senior Aviation Management Official (SAMO)
means the person in an executive agency who is the agency's primary member of the Interagency Committee for Aviation Policy (ICAP). This person must be of appropriate grade and position to represent the agency and promote flight safety and adherence to standards.
Serviceable aircraft part
means a part that is safe for flight, can fulfill its operational requirements, and is sufficiently documented to indicate that the part conforms to applicable standards/specifications.
Suspected unapproved part
means an aircraft part, component, or material that any person suspects of not meeting the requirements of an “approved part.” Approved parts are those that are produced in compliance with 14 CFR part 21, are maintained in compliance with 14 CFR parts 43 and 91, and meet applicable design standards. A part, component, or material may be suspect because of its questionable finish, size, or color; improper (or lack of) identification; incomplete or altered paperwork; or any other questionable indication. See detailed guidance in FAA Advisory Circular 21-29, “Detecting and Reporting Suspected Unapproved Parts,” available from the FAA at
http://www.faa.gov.
Traceable part
means an aircraft part whose manufacturer or production approval holder can be identified by documentation, markings/characteristics on the part, or packaging of the part. Non-military parts are traceable if you can establish that the parts were manufactured in accordance with or were previously determined to be airworthy under rules in 14 CFR parts 21 and 43. Possible sources for making a traceability determination could be shipping tickets, bar codes, invoices, parts marking (
e.g.,
PMA, TSO), data plates, serial/part numbers, manufacturing production numbers, maintenance records, work orders, etc.
Training
means instruction for all flight program personnel (to include administrative, maintenance and dispatch personnel), which enables them to qualify initially for their positions and to maintain qualification for their positions over time.

# Note:
This instruction can apply to either public or civil missions as defined in the latest version of the FAA's Advisory Circular for Government aircraft operations.
Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS)
means an unmanned aircraft and its associated elements related to safe operations, which may include but not be limited to control stations, data communications links, support equipment, payloads, flight termination systems, and launch/recovery equipment. The unmanned aircraft (UA) is the flying component of the system, flown by a pilot via a ground control system, or autonomously through the use of an on-board computer, communication links, and any additional equipment necessary for the unmanned aircraft to operate safely. The Federal Aviation Administration issues either an Airworthiness Directive (AD) or a Certificate of Authorization (COA) for the entire system, not just the flying component of the system. Reporting of UAS costs and flight hours is only required if the accumulated costs for acquisition and operations meets the agency's threshold for capitalization, and the UAS has a useful life of two years or more.
Unsalvageable aircraft part
means an aircraft part that cannot be restored to
a condition that is safe for flight because of its age, its physical condition, a non-repairable defect, insufficient documentation, or its non-conformance with applicable standards/specifications.
U.S. Government Aircraft Cost Accounting Guide (CAG)
means guidance for the accounting of Government aircraft costs published by GSA and is based on the cost guidance within OMB Circular A-126, OMB Circular A-76, FAIRS, and the U.S. Government Standard General Ledger.

# Responsibilities
§ 102-33.25
What are our responsibilities under this part?
Under this part, your responsibilities are to—
(a) Acquire, manage, and dispose of Federal aircraft (see the definition of “Federal aircraft” in § 102-33.20) and acquire and manage Commercial Aviation Services (CAS) (see the definition for “CAS” in paragraph (2) of the definition of “Government aircraft” in § 102-33.20) as safely, efficiently, and effectively as possible consistent with the nature of your agency's aviation missions;
(b) Document and report the—
(1) Types and numbers of your Federal aircraft;
(2) Costs of acquiring and operating Government aircraft;
(3) Amount of time that your agency uses Government aircraft; and
(4) Accidents and incidents involving Government aircraft;
(c) Ensure that your Government aircraft are used only to accomplish your agency's official Government business;
(d) Ensure that all passengers traveling on your agency's Government aircraft are authorized to travel on such aircraft (see OMB Circular A-126);
(e) Appoint (by letter to the Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Asset and Transportation Management, Office of Government-wide Policy, GSA) a Senior Aviation Management Official (SAMO), who will be your agency's primary member of the ICAP (this paragraph (e) applies to all executive agencies that use aircraft, including the Department of Defense (DOD), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), but excludes executive agencies that only hire aircraft occasionally for a specific flight). It is suggested that an agency's SAMO have:
(1) Experience as a pilot or crew member; or
(2) Management experience within an aviation operations management/flight program.
(f) Designate an official (by letter to the Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Asset and Transportation Management, Office of Government-wide Policy, GSA) to certify the accuracy and completeness of information reported by your agency through FAIRS. (Armed Forces agencies, which include the DOD and the U.S. Coast Guard, are not required to report information to FAIRS.);
(g) Appoint representatives of the agency as members of ICAP subcommittees and working groups;
(h) Ensure that your agency's internal policies and procedures are consistent with the requirements of OMB Circulars A-126, A-76 and A-11, Federal Aviation Administration Advisory Circular 120-92, and this part; and
(i) Ensure that safety and other critical aviation program requirements are satisfied. Executive agencies that only hire aircraft occasionally for specific flights, must either:
(1) Establish an aviation program that complies with the requirements of OMB Circular A-126; or
(2) Hire those aircraft through an agency with a policy-compliant aviation program.
§ 102-33.30
What are the duties of an agency's Senior Aviation Management Official (SAMO)?
The duties of an agency's Senior Aviation Management Official (SAMO) are to—
(a) Represent the agency's views to the ICAP and vote on behalf of the agency as needed;
(b) Contribute technical and operational policy expertise to ICAP deliberations and activities;
(c) Serve as the designated approving official for FAIRS when the agency elects to have one person serve as both the SAMO and the designated official
for FAIRS (DOD will not have a designated official for FAIRS); and
(d) Appoint representatives of the agency as members of ICAP subcommittees and working groups.
§ 102-33.35
How can we get help in carrying out our responsibilities?
To get help in carrying out your responsibilities under this part, you may—
(a) Call or write to GSA's Aviation Policy Division (see definition in § 102-33.20); or
(b) Find additional aviation program management information on the Internet at
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy.
§ 102-33.40
What are some of GSA's responsibilities for Federal aviation management?
Under OMB Circular A-126, “Improving the Management and Use of Government Aircraft,” (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
) GSA's chief responsibilities for Federal aviation management are to maintain—
(a) A single office to carry out Governmentwide responsibilities for Government aircraft management, and publishing that policy;
(b) An interagency committee (
i.e.,
the ICAP), whose members represent the executive agencies that use Government aircraft to conduct their official business (including FAA and NTSB specifically) and advise and consult with GSA on developing policy for managing Government aircraft;
(c) A management information system to collect, analyze, and report information on the inventory, cost, usage, and safety of Government aircraft; and
(d) A set of performance indicators, policy recommendations, and guidance for the procurement, operation, and safety and disposal of Government aircraft.

# Note to § 102-33.40:
See OMB Circular A-126 (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
) for a complete listing of GSA's responsibilities related to Federal aviation.

# Subpart B—Acquiring Government Aircraft and Aircraft Parts

# Overview
§ 102-33.50
Under what circumstances may we acquire Government aircraft?
(a) When you meet the requirements for operating an in-house aviation program contained in OMB Circular A-76, “Performance of Commercial Activities” and OMB Circular A-11, “Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget,” Part 2, “Preparation and Submission of Budget Estimates,” Section 25.5, “Summary of Requirements,” Table 1, which refers to the Business Case for Acquisition and Maintenance of Aircraft, and Section 51.18, “Budgeting for the acquisition of capital assets,” subparagraph (d) (Both circulars are available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
), you may—
(1) Acquire Federal aircraft when—
(i) Aircraft are the optimum means of supporting your agency's official business;
(ii) You do not have aircraft that can support your agency's official business safely (
e.g.,
in compliance with applicable safety standards and regulations) and cost-effectively;
(iii) No commercial or other Governmental source is available to provide aviation services safely (
i.e.,
in compliance with applicable safety standards and regulations) and cost-effectively; and
(iv) Congress has specifically authorized your agency to purchase, lease, or transfer aircraft and to maintain and operate those aircraft (see 31 U.S.C. 1343);
(2) Acquire Commercial Aviation Services (CAS) when—
(i) Aircraft are the optimum means of supporting your agency's official business; and
(ii) Using commercial aircraft and services is safe (
i.e.,
conforms to applicable laws, safety standards, and regulations) and is more cost effective than using Federal aircraft, aircraft from any other Governmental source, or scheduled air carriers.
(b) When acquiring aircraft, aircraft selection must be based on need, a strong business case, and life-cycle cost
analysis, which conform to OMB Circular A-11, “Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget,” Part 2, “Preparation and Submission of Budget Estimates,” Section 25.5, “Summary of Requirements,” Table 1, which refers to the Business Case for Acquisition and Maintenance of Aircraft (
available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
).
§ 102-33.55
Are there restrictions on acquiring Government aircraft?
Yes, you may not acquire—
(a) More aircraft than you need to carry out your official business;
(b) Aircraft of greater size or capacity than you need to perform your Governmental functions cost-effectively; or
(c) Federal aircraft that Congress has not authorized your agency to acquire or Federal aircraft or commercial aircraft and services for which you have not followed the requirements in OMB Circulars A-76 and A-11 (
available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
).
§ 102-33.60
What methods may we use to acquire Government aircraft?
Following the requirements of §§ 102-33.50 and 102-33.55, you (or an internal bureau or sub-agency within your agency) may acquire Government aircraft by means including, but not limited to—
(a) Purchase;
(b) Borrowing from a non-Federal source;
(c) Bailment from another executive agency;
(d) Exchange/sale;
(e) Reimbursable transfer from another executive agency (see §§ 102-36.75 and 102-36.80);
(f) Transfer from another executive agency as approved by GSA;
(g) Reassignment from one internal bureau or subagency to another within your agency;
(h) Transfer of previously forfeited aircraft;
(i) Insurance replacement (
i.e.,
receiving a replacement aircraft);
(j) Capital lease;
(k) Rent or charter;
(l) Contract for full services (
i.e.,
aircraft plus crew and related aviation services) from a commercial source; or
(m) Inter-service support agreements with other executive agencies for aircraft and services.
§ 102-33.65
What is the process for acquiring Government aircraft?
Acquiring Government aircraft, as described in §§ 102-33.70 through 102-33.105, generally follows a three-step process:
(a) Planning;
(b) Budgeting; and
(c) Contracting.

# Planning To Acquire Government Aircraft
§ 102-33.70
What directives must we follow when planning to acquire Government aircraft?
When planning to acquire Government aircraft, you must follow the requirements in—
(a) 31 U.S.C. 1343, “Buying and Leasing Passenger Motor Vehicles and Aircraft”;
(b) OMB Circular A-126, “Improving the Management and Use of Government Aircraft” (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
);
(c) OMB Circular A-11, Part 2, Section 25.5, Table 1, Business Case for Acquisition and Maintenance of Aircraft (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
);
(d) OMB Circular A-76, “Performance of Commercial Activities” (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
); and
(e) OMB Circular A-94, “Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit-Cost Analysis of Federal Programs” (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
).
§ 102-33.75
What other guidance is available to us in planning to acquire Government aircraft?
You can find guidance for acquisition planning in:
(a) The “Aviation Planning Desk Guide” (available at
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy
) and
(b) OMB's “Capital Programming Guide,” which is a supplement to OMB Circular A-11 (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
).

# OMB Circular A-76
§ 102-33.80
Must we comply with OMB Circular A-76 before we acquire Government aircraft?
Yes, before you acquire Government aircraft, you must comply with OMB Circular A-76 (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
). If you are acquiring Federal aircraft, you must ensure that the private sector cannot provide Government aircraft or related aviation services more cost-effectively than you can provide Federal aircraft and related services.

# The Process for Budgeting To Acquire Government Aircraft
§ 102-33.90
What is the process for budgeting to acquire a Federal aircraft (including a Federal aircraft transferred from another executive agency)?
(a) The process for budgeting to acquire a Federal aircraft or to accept a Federal aircraft transferred from another executive agency requires that you have specific authority from Congress in your appropriation, as called for in 31 U.S.C. 1343, to—
(1) Purchase, capital lease, or lease a Federal aircraft and to operate and maintain it; or
(2) Accept a Federal aircraft transferred from another executive agency and to operate and maintain it.
(b) For complete information on budgeting to own Federal aircraft (
i.e.,
large purchase of a capital asset), see OMB Circular A-11, Part 2, Sections 25.1 and 51.18. Also see §§ 102-33.70 and 102-33.75.
§ 102-33.95
What is the process for budgeting to acquire Commercial Aviation Services (CAS)?
Except for leases and capital leases, for which you must have specific Congressional authorization as required by 31 U.S.C. 1343, you may budget to fund your CAS out of your agency's operating budget. Also see §§ 102-33.70 and 102-33.75.

# Contracting To Acquire Government Aircraft
§ 102-33.100
What are our responsibilities when contracting to purchase or capital lease a Federal aircraft or to award a CAS contract?
In contracting to purchase or capital lease a Federal aircraft or to award a CAS contract, you must follow the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) unless your agency is exempt from following the FAR.
§ 102-33.105
What minimum requirements must we put into our CAS contracts?
At a minimum, your CAS contracts and agreements must require that any provider of CAS comply with—
(a) Civil standards in 14 CFR that are applicable to the type of operation(s) you are asking the contractor to conduct;
(b) Applicable military standards; or
(c) Your agency's Flight Program Standards (see §§ 102-33.140 through 102-33.185 for the requirements for Flight Program Standards).

# Acquiring Aircraft Parts
§ 102-33.110
What are our responsibilities when acquiring aircraft parts?
When acquiring aircraft parts, you must:
(a) Acquire the parts cost-effectively and acquire only what you need;
(b) Inspect and verify that all incoming parts are documented as safe for flight prior to installation;
(c) Obtain all logbooks (if applicable) and maintenance records (for guidance on maintaining records for non-military parts, see Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Advisory Circular 43-9C, “Maintenance Records,” which is available from the FAA at
http://www.faa.gov
);
(d) Plan for adequate storage and protection; and
(e) Refer to FAA Advisory Circular 21-29C, Change (2), “Detecting and Reporting Suspected Unapproved Parts” (
http://www.faa.gov
).
§ 102-33.115
Are there requirements for acquiring military Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP)?
Yes, when you acquire military Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP), you must—
(a) Accept FSCAP only when it is documented or traceable to its original equipment manufacturer. A part's DOD FSCAP Criticality Code should be marked or tagged on the part or appear on its invoice/transfer document (see § 102-33.375 for further explanation of the FSCAP Criticality Codes); and
(b) Not install undocumented, but traceable FSCAP until you have the parts inspected and recertified by the original equipment manufacturer or other FAA-approved facility (see § 102-33.370 on FSCAP and AC 20-142).
§ 102-33.120
Are there requirements for acquiring life-limited parts?
Yes, when you acquire new or used life-limited parts, you must—
(a) Identify and inspect the parts, ensuring that they have civil or military-certified documentation; and
(b) Mutilate and dispose of any expired life-limited parts (see § 102-33.370 on handling life-limited parts).

# Subpart C—Managing Government Aircraft and Aircraft Parts

# Overview
§ 102-33.125
If we use Federal aircraft, what are our management responsibilities?
If you use Federal aircraft, you are responsible for—
(a) Establishing agency-specific Flight Program Standards, as defined in §§ 102-33.140 through 102-33.185;
(b) Accounting for the cost of acquiring, operating, and supporting your aircraft;
(c) Accounting for the use of your aircraft;
(d) Maintaining and accounting for aircraft parts;
(e) Reporting inventory, cost, and utilization data (for reporting requirements, see subpart E of this part); and
(f) Properly disposing of aircraft and parts following §§ 102-33.240 through 102-33.375.
§ 102-33.130
If we hire CAS, what are our management responsibilities?
If you hire CAS, you are responsible for—
(a) Establishing agency-specific Flight Program Standards, as defined in §§ 102-33.140 through 102-33.185, as applicable, and requiring compliance with these standards in your contracts and agreements;
(b) Accounting for the cost of your aircraft and services hired as CAS;
(c) Accounting for the use of your aircraft hired as CAS; and
(d) Reporting the cost and usage data for your CAS hires (for reporting requirements, see subpart E of this part).
§ 102-33.135
Do we have to follow OMB Circular A-123, “Management Accountability and Control,” for establishing management controls for our aviation program?
Yes, you must follow OMB Circular A-123, “Management's Responsibility for Accountability and Control” (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
), when establishing management controls for your aviation program. The circular requires that you establish organizations, policies, and procedures to ensure that, among other things, your aviation program achieves its intended results and you use your resources consistently with your agency's missions.

# Establishing Flight Program Standards
§ 102-33.140
What are Flight Program Standards?
Flight Program Standards are the minimum requirements that must be incorporated into your flight programs to ensure that your aircraft are operated safely, effectively, and efficiently. These requirements must:
(a) Be specific to your agency's aviation operations, including your CAS;
(b) Meet the requirements identified in §§ 102-33.155 through 102-33.185.
(c) Meet or exceed applicable civil or military rules (in particular 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(37) and 40125), and applicable FAA regulations); and
(d) Incorporate risk management techniques when civil or military rules do not apply.
§ 102-33.145
Why must we establish Flight Program Standards?
You must establish Flight Program Standards because Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR) may not cover or address all aspects of your agency's flight program, such as non-certificated aircraft, high-risk operations, special personnel requirements, etc.
§ 102-33.150
What Federally-funded aviation activities of executive agencies are exempt from establishing Flight Program Standards under this part?
The following Federally-funded activities are exempt from establishing Flight Program Standards under this part:
(a) The Armed Forces (which includes the U.S. Coast Guard);
(b) Agencies in the Intelligence Community; and
(c) Entities outside the executive branch of the Federal Government when using aircraft loaned to them by an executive agency (that is, owned by an executive agency, but operated by and on behalf of the loanee) unless the loanee—
(1) Uses the aircraft to conduct official Government business; or
(2) Is required to follow §§ 102-33.140 through 102-33.185 under a Memorandum of Agreement governing the loan.
§ 102-33.155
How must we establish Flight Program Standards?
To establish Flight Program Standards, you must write, publish (as appropriate), implement, and comply with standards (specific to your agency), which establish or require (contractually, where applicable) policies and procedures for—
(a) Management/administration of your flight program (in this part, “flight program” includes CAS contracts);
(b) Operation of your flight program;
(c) Maintenance of your Government aircraft;
(d) Training for your flight program personnel;
(e) Safety of your flight program;
(f) Accident reporting and investigation as appropriate; and
(g) Reporting to FAIRS as required by this part.

# Management/Administration
§ 102-33.160
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for management/administration of our flight program?
For management/administration of your flight program, you must establish or require (contractually, where applicable)—
(a) A management structure responsible for the administration, operation, safety, training, maintenance, and financial needs of your aviation operation (including establishing minimum requirements for these items for any commercial contracts); and
(b) Guidance describing the roles, responsibilities, and authorities of your flight program personnel,
e.g.,
managers, pilots and other crewmembers, flight safety personnel, maintenance personnel, administrative personnel and dispatchers.

# Operations
§ 102-33.165
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for operation of our flight program?
For operation of your flight program, you must establish or require (contractually, where applicable)—
(a) Basic qualifications and currency requirements for your pilots and other crewmembers, maintenance personnel, administrative personnel and other mission-related personnel;
(b) Limitations on duty time and flight time for pilots and other crewmembers;
(c) Procedures to record and track flight time, duty time, training of crewmembers, and applicable medical requirements;
(d) Compliance with owning-agency or military safety of flight notices and operational bulletins;
(e) Flight-following procedures to notify management and initiate search and rescue operations for lost or downed aircraft;
(f) Dissemination, as your agency determines appropriate, of a disclosure statement to all crewmembers and
qualified non-crewmembers who fly aboard your agency's Government aircraft (see Appendix A to this part);
(g) Creation of a manifest, at the origin of each flight, that contains the full names of all persons on board for each leg of flight, a point of contact for each person, and phone numbers for the points of contact;
(h) Documentation of any changes in the manifest by leg, and retention of manifests for two years from the time of flight;
(i) Procedures for reconciling flight manifests with persons actually on board and a method to test those procedures periodically;
(j) At the origin of each flight, preparation of a complete weight and balance computation and a cargo-loading manifest, and retention of this computation and manifest for 30 days from the date of flight;
(k) Appropriate emergency procedures and equipment for specific missions;
(l) Procedures to ensure that required Aviation Life Support Equipment (ALSE) is inspected and serviceable; and
(m) Procedures to implement a “risk assessment” before each flight and/or as frequently as necessary that include such items as weather, crew rest, type of flight (low level, Instrument Flight Rules (IFR), night, etc.) crew makeup, etc. This process should be accomplished in accordance with your agency's operations, flight dispatch, or flight following procedures/program.

# Maintenance
§ 102-33.170
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for maintenance of our Government aircraft?
For maintenance of your Government aircraft, you must establish or require (contractually, where applicable)—
(a) Procedures to record and track duty time and training of maintenance personnel;
(b) Aircraft maintenance and inspection programs that comply with whichever is most applicable among—
(1) Programs for ex-military aircraft;
(2) Manufacturers' programs;
(3) FAA-approved programs (
i.e.,
following the applicable parts of 14 CFR);
(4) FAA-accepted programs (
i.e.,
those following ICAP guides or similar programs that have been accepted by the FAA); or
(5) Your agency's self-prescribed programs;
(c) Compliance with owning-agency or military safety of flight notices, FAA airworthiness directives, advisory circulars and orders, or mandatory manufacturers' bulletins applicable to the types of aircraft, engines, propellers, and appliances you operate;
(d) Procedures for operating aircraft with inoperable instruments and equipment (
i.e.,
Minimum Equipment Lists and Configuration Deviation Lists);
(e) Technical support, including appropriate engineering documentation and testing, for aircraft, powerplant, propeller, or appliance repairs, modifications, or equipment installations;
(f) A quality control system for acquiring replacements, ensuring that the parts you acquire are suitable replacement parts and have the documentation needed to determine that they are safe for flight and are inspected and tested, as applicable;
(g) Procedures for recording and tracking maintenance actions; inspections; and the flight hours, cycles, and calendar times of life-limited parts and FSCAP; and
(h) The use of alternative aviation fuels in fleet aircraft to the maximum extent possible consistent with the availability of approved alternative fuels and aircraft operating procedures or manuals for those aircraft.

# Training
§ 102-33.175
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) to train our flight program personnel?
You must establish or require (contractually, where applicable) the following standards to train your flight program personnel—
(a) An instructional program to train your flight program personnel, initially and on a recurrent basis, in their roles, responsibilities, authorities, and in the operational skills relevant to
the types of operations that you conduct. Flight program personnel may include,
e.g.,
managers, pilots and other crewmembers, flight safety personnel, maintenance personnel, administrative personnel and dispatchers; and
(b) An instructional program that meets the specific requirements for safety manager training identified in § 102-33.180(a).

# Safety
§ 102-33.180
What standards should we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for aviation safety management?
You should establish or require (contractually, where applicable) the following aviation safety management standards:
(a) By June 30, 2015, a Safety Management System (SMS) that complies with the FAA's current Advisory Circular that addresses Safety Management Systems (SMS) or an equivalent internationally recognized SMS standard. The SMS should include:
(1) Policies that define clear roles and responsibilities for implementing an SMS. This includes ensuring that senior level management has the ultimate responsibility for your SMS. It also includes appointing members of management as qualified aviation safety managers and safety officers (
i.e.,
individuals who are responsible for an agency's aviation safety program, regardless of title), who should be—
(i) Experienced as pilots, crewmembers, maintenance personnel, or have experience in aviation management or aviation maintenance program management; and
(ii) Graduated or certificated from an aviation safety officer course provided by a recognized training provider and authority in aviation safety before appointment or within one year after appointment; and
(2) A program for preventing accidents, which includes—
(i) Measurable accident prevention procedures (
e.g.,
safety reviews, clear roles and responsibilities, operations and maintenance procedures, pilot and mechanic proficiency evaluations, fire drills, hazard analyses);
(ii) A procedure or system for disseminating accident-prevention information;
(iii) Safety training;
(iv) An aviation safety awards program that includes applying for the annual Federal Aviation Awards as appropriate;
(v) An annual review to ensure compliance with the GSA Gold Standard Program; and
(vi) A safety council or committee (applies to Federal aircraft-owning agencies);
(b) Procedures and processes for risk analysis and risk management that identify and mitigate hazards through formal administrative and engineering controls and provide recommendations to senior level managers for managing risk to an optimum level;
(c) Policies that require the use of independent, unbiased inspectors to verify compliance with the standards called for in this;
(d) Procedures for reporting unsafe operations to agency aviation safety officers and senior aviation safety managers without reprisal;
(e) A system to collect and report information on aircraft accidents and incidents (as required by 49 CFR part 830 and 41 CFR 102-33.445 and 102-33.450);
(f) Policies that identify clear standards for acceptable behavior; and
(g) A security program that includes—
(1) A designated security manager;
(2) A threat assessment process;
(3) Procedures for preventing and deterring unlawful acts;
(4) Procedures for responding to threats and unlawful acts;
(5) Security training for personnel; and
(6) Policies and procedures for a mail security plan that meet the mail security requirements contained in FMR 102-192, “Mail Management,” Subpart C, “Security Requirements for All Agencies,” §§ 102-192.70 through 102-192.80. Specifically, section 102-192.80 identifies topics that must be addressed in an agency's mail security plan, to include a plan to protect staff
and all other occupants of agency facilities from hazards that might be delivered in the mail, which would include an agency's use of aircraft for mail delivery.
§ 102-33.185
What standards must we establish or require (contractually, where applicable) for responding to aircraft accidents and incidents?
You must establish or require (contractually, where applicable) the following standards for responding to aircraft accidents and incidents:
(a) An aircraft accident/incident reporting policy to ensure that you will comply with the National Transportation Safety Board's (NTSB) regulations (located in 49 CFR parts 830 and 831), including notifying NTSB immediately when you have an aircraft accident or an incident as defined in 49 CFR 830.5. In addition, this policy must contain a method of notifying the U.S. General Services Administration of an accident or incident that was reported to the NTSB. Refer to §§ 102-33.445 and 102-33.450 for further information;
(b) An agency, bureau, or field level accident/incident response plan, modeled on the NTSB's “Federal Plan for Aviation Accidents Involving Aircraft Operated by or Chartered by Federal Agencies,” and periodic disaster response exercises to test your plan. A copy of the NTSB's plan is available at
http://www.ntsb.gov.
The plan should also refer to or incorporate procedures (as outlined in FAA Advisory Circular 120-92) to identify the potential for accidents or incidents;
(c) Procedures (see 49 CFR 831.11) for participation as a party to NTSB accident or incident investigations involving aircraft that your agency either owns or hires, and for conducting parallel investigations, as appropriate;
(d) Training in investigating accidents/incidents for your agency's personnel who may be asked to participate in NTSB investigations or to conduct a parallel investigation; and
(e) Procedures for disseminating, in the event of an aviation disaster that involves one of your Government aircraft, information about eligibility for benefits contained in the disclosure statement in appendix A of this part to anyone injured, to the injured or deceased persons' points of contact (listed on the manifest), and to the families of injured or deceased crewmembers and qualified non-crewmembers.

# Note to § 102-33.185:
This part does not supersede any of the regulations in 49 CFR parts 830 and 831. For definitions of terms and complete regulatory guidance on notifying the NTSB and reporting aircraft accidents and incidents, see 49 CFR parts 830 and 831.

# Accounting for the Costs of Government Aircraft
§ 102-33.190
What are the aircraft operations and ownership costs for which we must account?
You must account for the operations and ownership costs of your Government aircraft, including your Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), as described in the “U.S. Government Aircraft Cost Accounting Guide” (CAG), available at (
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy
), which follows OMB Circular A-126 (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
). To account for aircraft costs, you must do at least the following:
(a) Justify acquisitions to support the agency's aviation program;
(b) Justify the use of Government aircraft in lieu of commercially available aircraft, and the use of one Government aircraft in lieu of another;
(c) Develop a variable cost rate for each aircraft or aircraft type (
i.e.,
make and model) in your inventory;
(d) Recover the costs of operating Government aircraft;
(e) Determine the cost effectiveness of various aspects of agency aircraft programs; and
(f) Accumulate aircraft program costs following the procedures defined in the CAG, available at (
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy
).
§ 102-33.195
Do we need an automated system to account for aircraft costs?
(a) Yes, if you own Federal aircraft or operate bailed aircraft, you must maintain an automated system to account for aircraft costs by collecting the cost data elements required by FAIRS. The functional specifications and data definitions for a FAIRS-compliant system are described in the “Common Aviation Management Information Standard” (C-AMIS), which is
available from the Aviation Policy Division. See §§ 102-33.395, 102-33.405, and 102-33.410 for more information on FAIRS, and §§ 102-33.455 and 102-33.460 for more information on C-AMIS.
(b) Agencies that use only CAS aircraft and do not have Federal aircraft must keep records adequate for reporting information through FAIRS, but are not required to have an automated system. See §§ 102-33.435 and 102-33.440 for the information on CAS that you must report through FAIRS.
§ 102-33.200
Must we periodically justify owning and operating Federal aircraft?
Yes, after you have held a Federal aircraft for five years, you must:
(a) Justify owning and operating the aircraft by reviewing your operations and establishing that you have a continuing need for the aircraft, using the procedures required in OMB Circular A-76 and OMB Circular A-11, Part 7, Appendix B, Budgetary treatment of lease-purchases and leases of capital assets; and
(b) Review the continuing need for each of your aircraft and the cost-effectiveness of your aircraft operations as directed by OMB Circulars A-11 and A-76, every five years.
§ 102-33.205
When we use our aircraft to support other executive agencies, must we recover the operating costs?
Yes, you must recover the following:
(a) Under 31 U.S.C. 1535 and other statutes, you may be required to recover the costs of operating aircraft in support of other agencies. Depending on the statutory authorities under which you acquired and operate your aircraft, you will use either of the following two methods for establishing the rates charged for using your aircraft:
(1) The variable cost recovery rate; or
(2) The full cost recovery rate.
(b) See the U.S. Government Aircraft Cost Accounting Guide (CAG) (
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy
), for the definitions of “variable cost recovery rate” and “full cost recovery rate.”

# Accounting for the Use of Government Aircraft
§ 102-33.210
How do we account for the use of our Government aircraft?
To account for the use of Government aircraft, including your Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), you must document all flights and keep this documentation for two years after the date of the flight. For each flight, record the—
(a) Aircraft's registration mark;
(b) Owner and operator (the owner may not be the operator, as is the case when a CAS aircraft, owned commercially, is operated by U.S. Government personnel);
(c) Purpose of the flight (the Governmental function that the aircraft was dispatched to perform);
(d) Departure and destination points;
(e) Flight date(s) and times;
(f) Manifest (see § 102-33.165(g) and (h)); and
(g) Name(s) of the pilot(s) and crewmembers.
§ 102-33.215
May we use Government aircraft to carry passengers?
Yes, you may use Government aircraft to carry passengers with the following restrictions:
(a) You may carry passengers only on aircraft that you operate or require contractually to be operated in accordance with the rules and requirements in 14 CFR; and
(b) For certain kinds of travel, your agency must justify passengers' presence on Government aircraft. See OMB Circular A-126 and the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) §§ 301-10.260 through 301-10.266, and 301-70.800 through 301-70.808, and 301-70.910 (41 CFR 301-10.260 through 301-10.266, 301-70.800 through 301-70.808, and 301-70.910) for complete information on authorizing travel and analyzing costs before authorizing travel on Government aircraft.
§ 102-33.220
What are the responsibilities of our aviation program in justifying the use of a Government aircraft to transport passengers?
After receiving a request from your agency, your aviation program's responsibilities in justifying the use of a
Government aircraft to transport passengers are to your travel approving authority:
(a) Cost estimates to assist in determining whether or not use of a Government aircraft to carry passengers is justified. See OMB Circular A-126 (
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
) for more information on justifying travel on Government aircraft. See also FTR §§ 301-10.260 through 301-10.266, and 301-70.800 through 301-70.808, and 301-70.910 (41 CFR 301-10.260 through 301-10.266, 301-70.800 through 301-70.808, and 301-70.910) for guidance on estimating the cost of using a Government aircraft. The cost of using a Government aircraft is—
(1) The variable cost of using a Federal aircraft;
(2) The amount your agency will be charged by a CAS provider; or
(3) The variable cost of using an aircraft owned by another agency as reported by the owning agency; and
(b) Information to assist in the analysis of alternatives to travel on Government aircraft. The information must include the following:
(1) If no follow-on trip is scheduled, all time required to position the aircraft to begin the trip and to return the aircraft to its normal base of operations;
(2) If a follow-on trip requires repositioning, the cost for the repositioning should be charged to the associated follow-on trip;
(3) If an aircraft supports a multi-leg trip (a series of flights scheduled sequentially), the use of the aircraft for the total trip may be justified by comparing the total variable cost of the entire trip to the commercial aircraft cost (including charter) for all legs of the trip; and
(4) The use of foreign aircraft as CAS is authorized when the agency has determined that an equivalent level of safety exists as compared to U.S. operations of a like kind. The safety of passengers shall be the overriding consideration for the selection of travel mode when comparing foreign sources of scheduled commercial airlines and CAS.

# Managing Aircraft Parts
§ 102-33.225
How must we manage aircraft parts?
You must manage your aircraft parts by maintaining proper storage, protection, maintenance procedures, and records for the parts throughout their life cycles.
§ 102-33.230
May we use military FSCAP on non-military FAA-type certificated Government aircraft?
You may use dual-use military FSCAP on non-military aircraft operated under restricted or standard airworthiness certificates if the parts are inspected and approved for such installation by the FAA. See detailed guidance in FAA Advisory Circular 20-142, Change (1), “Eligibility and Evaluation of U.S. Military Surplus Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts, Engines, and Propellers” (
http://www.faa.gov
).
§ 102-33.235
What documentation must we maintain for life-limited parts and FSCAP?
For life-limited parts and FSCAP, you must hold and update the documentation that accompanies these parts for as long as you use or store them. When you dispose of life-limited parts or FSCAP, the up-to-date documentation must accompany the parts. (See § 102-33.370.)

# Subpart D—Disposing or Replacing of Government Aircraft and Aircraft Parts

# Overview
§ 102-33.240
What must we consider before disposing or replacing aircraft and aircraft parts?
Before disposing of aircraft and aircraft parts, you must first determine if the aircraft or parts are excess to your agency's mission or, if your aircraft or parts are not excess, if you will need replacements, as follows:
(a) If your aircraft/parts are . . .
And . . .
Then . . .
No longer needed to perform their mission(s) for your agency, i.e., they are excess to your needs,
You do not need to replace them,
You must report them to GSA as excess property (see 41 CFR 102-36.45(e)).
(b) If your aircraft/parts are . . .
And . . .
Then . . .
No longer suitable, or capable of performing their mission(s) for your agency,
You do need to replace them,
You may consider using the exchange/sale authority (see 41 CFR part 102-39).
§ 102-33.245
May we report as excess, or replace (i.e., by exchange/sale), both operational and non-operational aircraft?
Yes, you may report as excess, or replace both operational and non-operational aircraft by following the rules governing excess personal property and exchange/sale (see 41 CFR parts 102-36 and 102-39, respectively).
§ 102-33.250
May we declassify aircraft?
Yes, you may declassify aircraft (See §§ 102-33.415 and 102-33.420).
(a) A declassified aircraft is no longer considered an aircraft, but may be considered as a group of aircraft parts or other property for ground use only.
(b) You must retain documentation and traceability on all parts that are intended for use as replacement parts on other aircraft. You must carry such “aircraft parts or other property” on your property records under the appropriate Federal Supply Classification group(s) (
e.g.,
miscellaneous property).
(c) For disposal of the property remaining after declassification of an aircraft, you must follow the property disposal regulations in 41 CFR parts 102-36, 102-37, 102-38 and 102-39.
§ 102-33.255
Must we document FSCAP or life-limited parts installed on aircraft that we will report as excess or replace?
Yes, you must comply with the documentation procedures described in § 102-33.370 if your aircraft and/or engines contain FSCAP or life-limited parts that you will report as excess or replace.
§ 102-33.260
When we report as excess, or replace, an aircraft (including a declassified aircraft), must we report the change in inventory to the Federal Aviation Interactive Reporting System (FAIRS)?
(a) Yes. When you report as excess or replace an aircraft you must report the change in inventory to FAIRS. For more information see § 102-33.405.
(b) Within 14 calendar days of the date you dispose of the aircraft, you must report—
(1) The disposal method (
e.g.,
reassignment, inter-agency transfer, donation, sale as surplus or scrap, declassification, or exchange/sale);
(2) The disposal date; and
(3) The identity and type of recipient (
e.g.,
State, educational institution, executive agency, commercial vendor).

# Reporting Excess Federal Aircraft
§ 102-33.265
What must we do with aircraft that are excess to our needs?
If aircraft are excess to your needs, you must:
(a) Reassign the aircraft within your agency if any of your sub-agencies can use the aircraft; or
(b) Report the aircraft as excess property to GSA (see 41 CFR part 102-36) if none of your sub-agencies can use the aircraft.
§ 102-33.270
What is the process for reporting an excess aircraft?
To report an excess aircraft, you must:
(a) Report electronically to GSA's Federal Disposal System GSAXcess® (
http://gsaxcess.gov
). For information on reporting excess property electronically, contact the Federal Acquisition Service (FAS), Pacific Rim Region (Region 9) at (415) 522-2777; and
(b) Submit a Standard Form (SF) 120, Report of Excess Personal Property
(see § 102-2.135), to: General Services Administration, Federal Acquisition Service, Pacific Rim Region, 450 Golden Gate Avenue, 4th Floor West, San Francisco, CA, 94102-3434.

# Replacing Aircraft Through Exchange/Sale
§ 102-33.275
What should we consider before replacing our aircraft through exchange/sale?
Before an exchange/sale of your aircraft, you should consider whether:
(a) You have a continuing need for similar property and that the property being exchanged or sold is not excess or surplus; and
(b) The exchange/sale meets all other requirements in 41 CFR part 102-39.
§ 102-33.280
What are our options if we need a replacement aircraft?
If you need to replace an aircraft, your options are—
(a) Negotiating and conducting an exchange transaction directly with an aircraft provider and obtaining credit toward the purchase of a replacement aircraft, following the procurement rules applicable to your agency; or
(b) Selling the aircraft and using the proceeds to offset the cost of purchasing a replacement aircraft, following 41 CFR part 102-39. Sales Centers (SC) that are currently authorized to conduct sales, as well as contact information for the GovSales Program Manager, are available on the GovSales Web site at
http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/105020.
§ 102-33.285
Do we need to include any special disclaimers in our exchange/sale agreements for non-certificated aircraft or aircraft that we have operated as public aircraft (i.e., not in compliance with 14 CFR)?
Yes, when you exchange/sell non-certificated aircraft or aircraft maintained as public aircraft, you must ensure that the exchange/sale offerings contain the following statement:
“
Warning to purchasers/recipients.
The aircraft you are purchasing or receiving in an exchange may not be in compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requirements. You are solely responsible for bringing the aircraft into compliance with 14 CFR Chapter I, or other applicable standards, by obtaining all necessary FAA inspections or modifications.
The purchaser/recipient agrees that the Government shall not be held liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of the purchaser/recipient, the purchaser's/recipient's employees, or to any other persons arising from or incident to the purchase of this aircraft, its use, or disposition. You will hold the Government harmless from any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the purchase, use, or resale of this item. This aircraft may have been operated outside the limitations of 14 CFR Chapter I, and some type of inspection may be needed to determine its airworthiness prior to being flown. You should be aware of the items below prior to operating this aircraft.
• All civil and public aircraft must have a valid registration issued by the FAA as required by 14 CFR Chapter I.
• Civil aircraft must have a valid airworthiness certificate in order to operate in the U.S. airspace.
• In order for the aircraft to be eligible for a standard airworthiness certificate, the aircraft must conform to its FAA Type Certificate.
• Aircraft not having a valid airworthiness certificate may be eligible for a special FAA one-time flight permit to enable relocating the aircraft. Relocation can be for a number of reasons, including storage, repair, inspection, or public display. Any one-time flight approval is predicated on the aircraft being safe for flight.
• Individuals who purchase a surplus military (foreign or domestic) or foreign aircraft not having any type of FAA Type Certificate may be unable to obtain any type of airworthiness certificate or special flight permit.
• An aircraft with good maintenance and inspection records makes an airworthiness determination easier to ascertain. It is in your best interest to contact the nearest FAA Flight Standards District Office and discuss your responsibilities with respect to gaining an airworthiness determination. The location of your nearest FAA office
may be obtained from the FAA's Web site (
http://www.faa.gov/
).
• When the aircraft is purchased for spare parts and the airframe is scrapped, you should declassify the aircraft (see § 102-33.420 for more information), complete the back of the aircraft's registration form and send it to: The FAA Aircraft Registration Branch, P.O. Box 25504, Oklahoma City, OK 73125-0504.”
§ 102-33.295
May we exchange/sell an aircraft through reimbursable transfer to another executive agency or conduct a negotiated sale at fixed price to a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)?
Yes, you may exchange/sell an aircraft through reimbursable transfer to another executive agency or conduct a negotiated sale at fixed price to a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP) (see § 102-39.55 for more information).

# Note to § 102-33.295:
Some agencies may also have special congressional authorization to recover costs.

# Disposing of Aircraft Parts
§ 102-33.300
What must we consider before disposing of aircraft parts?
Before disposing of aircraft parts, you must first determine if they are excess to your agency's mission requirements or, if the aircraft parts are not excess, if you will need replacements. The table in § 102-33.240 shows the differences between excess and replacement parts.
§ 102-33.305
May we report as excess, or replace, FSCAP and life-limited parts?
Yes, you may report as excess, or replace, FSCAP and life-limited parts, but they require special handling. See the tables in § 102-33.370.
§ 102-33.310
May we report as excess, or replace, unsalvageable aircraft parts?
No, you may not report unsalvageable aircraft parts as excess or exchange/sale them for replacements. You must mutilate unsalvageable parts. You may sell the mutilated parts only as scrap or report that scrap to GSA for sale.
§ 102-33.315
What are the procedures for mutilating unsalvageable aircraft parts?
When mutilating unsalvageable aircraft parts, you must—
(a) Destroy the data plates, remove the serial/lot/part numbers, and cut, crush, grind, melt, burn, or use other means to prevent the parts from being misidentified or used as serviceable aircraft parts. Call your regional FAA Flight Standards District Office for additional guidance;
(b) Ensure that an authorized official of your agency witnesses and documents the mutilation; and
(c) Retain a signed certification and statement of mutilation.
§ 102-33.320
What must we do if we are unable to perform required mutilation of aircraft parts?
If you are unable to perform the required mutilation of aircraft parts, you must turn the parts in to a Federal or Federally-approved facility for mutilation and proper disposition. Ensure that any contractor follows the provisions of § 102-33.315 for mutilating and disposing of the parts.
§ 102-33.325
What documentation must we furnish with excess, surplus or replaced parts when they are transferred, donated, or exchanged/sold?
When you transfer, donate, or exchange/sell excess, surplus or replaced parts, you must—
(a) Furnish all applicable labels, tags, and historical and modification records for serviceable aircraft parts;
(b) Mark mutilated parts as unsalvageable (mutilated parts may be sold only for scrap; see § 102-33.315); and
(c) Ensure that all available tags, labels, applicable historical data, life-histories, and maintenance records accompany FSCAP and life-limited parts and that FSCAP criticality codes (see § 102-33.375) are perpetuated on documentation (see § 102-33.330 for additional requirements).

# Reporting Excess Aircraft Parts
§ 102-33.330
What must we do with aircraft parts that are excess to our needs?
If aircraft parts are excess to your needs, you must:
(a) Reassign the aircraft parts within your agency if any of your sub-agencies can use the parts; or
(b) Report the excess parts to GSA, using Standard Form (SF) 120, “Report of Excess Personal Property” (see § 102-2.135 for information to obtain this form). When reporting excess FSCAP, you must include the manufacturer's name, date of manufacture, part number, serial number, and the appropriate Criticality Code on the SF 120. For information on reporting excess property, refer to
http://gsaxcess.gov.
(See 41 CFR part 102-36 regarding disposal of excess property.)
§ 102-33.335
What are the receiving agency's responsibilities in the transfer of aircraft parts?
An agency that receives transferred aircraft parts must:
(a) Verify that all applicable labels and tags and historical and modification records accompany all serviceable aircraft parts (
i.e.,
parts that are intended for flight use) that you receive. This requirement does not apply to parts for ground use only. See the tables in § 102-33.370.
(b) Mutilate all transferred parts that you discover to be unsalvageable, and dispose of them properly, following the procedures in § 102-33.315.
§ 102-33.340
What are GSA's responsibilities in disposing of excess and surplus aircraft parts?
In disposing of excess aircraft parts, the GSA FAS office in your region:
(a) Reviews your SF 120, Report of Excess Personal Property (see § 102-2.135 for information to obtain this form) for completeness and accuracy (of status, condition, and FSCAP and demilitarization codes if applicable); and
(b) Ensures that the following certification is included on disposal documents (
e.g.,
transfer orders or purchasers' receipts):
Because of the critical nature of the failure of aircraft parts and the resulting potential safety threat, recipients of aircraft parts must ensure that any parts installed on an aircraft meet applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requirements and must obtain required certifications. GSA makes no representation as to a part's conformance with the FAA requirements.
§ 102-33.345
What are the responsibilities of a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP) in the donation of Federal Government aircraft parts?
When a SASP accepts surplus Federal Government aircraft parts for donation, the SASP must:
(a) Review donation and transfer documents for completeness and accuracy, and ensure that the certification in § 102-33.340 is included;
(b) Ensure that when the donee determines the part to be unsalvageable, the donee mutilates the part following the procedures in § 102-33.315; and
(c) Ensure that the donee retains, maintains, and perpetuates all documentation for serviceable parts (parts intended for flight use).

# Replacing Aircraft Parts Through Exchange/Sale
§ 102-33.350
What do we need to consider for an exchange/sale of our aircraft parts?
(a) When replacing aircraft parts through exchange/sale you—
(1) Do not need approval from GSA; and
(2) Must follow the provisions of this subpart and part 102-39 of this chapter.
(b) Replacement parts do not have to be for the same type or design of aircraft, but you must use the exchange allowance or sales proceeds to purchase aircraft parts to support your aviation program which meet the “similarity” requirement in 41 CFR part 102-39.
§ 102-33.355
May we exchange/sell aircraft parts through a reimbursable transfer to another executive agency or conduct a negotiated sale at fixed price to a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)?
Yes, you may exchange/sell aircraft parts through a reimbursable transfer to another executive agency, or conduct a negotiated sale at fixed price to a SASP (see § 102-39.55 for more information).
§ 102-33.360
What is the process for exchanging/selling aircraft parts for replacement?
(a) You or your agent (
i.e.,
another Federal agency or an authorized Sales Center) may transact an exchange/sale directly with a non-Federal source, or do a reimbursable transfer with another executive agency as long as you or your agent—
(1) Follow the provisions in this part and in 41 CFR part 102-39;
(2) Ensure that the applicable labels and tags, historical data and modification records accompany the parts at the time of sale, and that sales offerings on aircraft parts contain the following statement:
“Warning to purchasers/recipients.
The aircraft parts you are purchasing or receiving in an exchange may not be in compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requirements. You are solely responsible for bringing the aircraft into compliance with 14 CFR Chapter I, or other applicable standards, by obtaining all necessary FAA inspections or modifications.”
(3) Ensure that the following certification is signed by the purchaser/recipient and received by the Government before releasing parts to the purchaser/recipient:
“The purchaser/recipient agrees that the Government shall not be held liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of the purchaser/recipient, the purchaser's/recipient's employees, or to any other persons arising from or incident to the purchase of these aircraft parts, their use, or disposition. The purchaser/recipient shall hold the Government harmless from any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the purchase, use, or resale of these aircraft parts.
These parts may have been used on aircraft that were operated outside the limitations of 14 CFR Chapter I, and some type of inspection may be needed to determine their airworthiness prior to being used on a recipient aircraft.
You should be aware of the following requirements prior to operating an aircraft with parts received from an exchange.
• All civil and public aircraft must have a valid registration issued by the FAA as required by 14 CFR Chapter I.
• Civil aircraft must have a valid airworthiness certificate in order to operate in U.S. airspace.
• In order for the aircraft to be eligible for a standard airworthiness certificate, the aircraft must conform to its FAA Type Certificate.
• Aircraft not having a valid airworthiness certificate may be eligible for a special FAA one-time flight permit to enable relocating the aircraft. Relocation can be for a number of reasons, perhaps including storage, repair, inspection, or public display. Any one-time flight approval is predicated on the aircraft being safe for flight.
• Individuals who purchase a surplus military (foreign or domestic) or foreign aircraft not having any type of FAA Type Certificate may be unable to obtain any type of airworthiness certificate or special flight permit.
• An aircraft with good maintenance and inspection records makes an airworthiness determination easier to ascertain. It is in your best interest to contact the nearest FAA Flight Standards District Office and discuss your responsibilities with respect to gaining an airworthiness determination. The location of your nearest FAA office may be obtained from the FAA's Web site (
http://www.faa.gov/
).”
(b) Authorized SCs can conduct sales of aircraft parts for you. SCs that are currently authorized to conduct sales, as well as contact information for the GovSales Program Manager, are available on the GovSales Web site at
http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/105020
.
§ 102-33.365
Must we report exchange/sale of parts to FAIRS?
No, you don't have to report exchange/sale of parts to FAIRS. However, you must report the transactions to GSA as part of your agency's annual report (see 41 CFR part 102-39 Subpart C—Exchange/Sale Methods and Reports).

# Special Requirements for Disposing of Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP) and Life-Limited Parts
§ 102-33.370
What must we do to dispose of military FSCAP and/or life-limited parts?
To dispose of military FSCAP and/or life-limited parts, you must use the following tables:
(a) Table 1 for disposing of uninstalled FSCAP and/or life-limited parts follows:
Table 1 for Disposing of Uninstalled FSCAP and/or Life-Limited Parts
(1) If an Uninstalled FSCAP (
i.e.
, not installed in an aircraft or engine)—
(i) Is documented—
Then
(A) You may exchange/sale it or transfer it to another executive agency under 41 CFR parts 102-36 and 102-39;
(B) GSA may donate it for flight use under 41 CFR part 102-37 of this subchapter; or
(C) GSA may donate it for ground use only, after you mutilate and mark it, “FSCAP—NOT AIRWORTHY” (the State Agency for Surplus Property must certify that the part has been mutilated and marked before donation).
(ii) Is undocumented, but traceable to its original equipment manufacturer (OEM) or production approval holder (PAH)—
Then
(A) You may exchange/sell it only to the OEM or PAH under 41 CFR part 102-39;
(B) GSA may transfer or donate it for flight use, but only by making it a condition of the transfer or donation agreement that the recipient will have the part inspected, repaired, and certified by the OEM or PAH before putting it into service (Note: You must mark parts individually to ensure that the recipient is aware of the part's service status); or
(C) GSA may donate it for ground use only, after you mutilate and mark it, “FSCAP—NOT AIRWORTHY” (the State Agency for Surplus Property must certify that the part has been mutilated and marked before donation).
(iii) Is undocumented and untraceable, you must mutilate it, and—
Then
(A) GSA may transfer or donate it for ground use only, after you mark it, “FSCAP—NOT AIRWORTHY” (the State Agency for Surplus Property must certify that the part has been mutilated and marked before donation); or
(B) You may sell it only for scrap under §§ 102-33.310 and 102-33.315.
(2) If an uninstalled life-limited part (
i.e.
, not installed in an aircraft or engine)—
(i) Is documented with service life remaining—
Then
(A) You may exchange/sale it or transfer it to another executive agency under 41 CFR parts 102-36 and 102-39;
(B) GSA may donate it for flight use under 41 CFR part 102-37; or
(C) GSA may donate it for ground use only, after you mutilate and mark it, “EXPIRED LIFE-LIMITED—NOT AIRWORTHY” (the State Agency for Surplus Property must certify that the part has been mutilated and marked before donation).
(ii) Is documented with no service life remaining, or undocumented, GSA may not transfer it to another executive agency for flight use—
But
(A) GSA may transfer or donate it for ground use only, after you mutilate and mark it, “EXPIRED LIFE-LIMITED—NOT AIRWORTHY” (the State Agency for Surplus Property must certify that the part has been mutilated and marked before donation); or
(B) You must mutilate it and may sell it only for scrap.
(b) Table 2 for disposing of installed FSCAP and/or life-limited parts follows:
Table 2 for Disposing of Installed FSCAP and/or Life-Limited Parts
(1) If a FSCAP and/or life-limited part is installed in an aircraft or an engine, and it—
(i) Is documented with service life remaining—
Then
(A) You may exchange/sale the aircraft or engine, or GSA may transfer the aircraft or engine to another executive agency under 41 CFR parts 102-36 and 102-39;
(B) GSA may donate the aircraft or engine for flight use or ground use.
(ii) Is documented with no service life remaining—
Then
(A) You must remove and mutilate the part before you exchange/sale the aircraft or engine (see rules for disposing of uninstalled life-limited parts in Table 1 of this section). (Note: If an aircraft or engine is exchanged/sold to its OEM or PAH, you do not have to remove the expired life-limited part);
(B) You must remove and mutilate the part before GSA may transfer or donate the aircraft or engine for flight use (see the rules for disposing of uninstalled FSCAP in Table 1 of this section). (Note: An internal engine part may be left installed, if you identify the part individually to ensure that the receiving agency is aware of the part's service status and, as a condition of the transfer or donation agreement, the receiving agency agrees to remove and mutilate the part before the engine is put into service. You must certify mutilation for transfers, and the State Agency for Surplus Property must certify that the part has been mutilated for donations); or
(C) GSA may donate the aircraft or engine for ground use only, after you remove the part, mutilate and mark it “EXPIRED LIFE-LIMITED—NOT AIRWORTHY.” (Note: An internal engine part may be left installed, if, as a condition of the donation agreement, the receiving agency agrees to remove and mutilate the part and mark it, and the State Agency for Surplus Property must certify that the part has been mutilated and marked).
§ 102-33.375
What is a FSCAP Criticality Code?
(a) A FSCAP Criticality Code is a code assigned by DOD to indicate the type of FSCAP: Code “F” indicates a standard FSCAP; Code “E” indicates a nuclear-hardened FSCAP.
(b) You must perpetuate a FSCAP Criticality Code on all property records and reports of excess. If the code is not annotated on the transfer document that you received when you acquired the part, you may contact the appropriate military service or query DOD's Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) using the National Stock Number (NSN) or the part number (see
http://www.dlis.dla.mil/webflis
). For assistance in subscribing to the FLIS service, contact the WebFLIS Consumer Support Office, 1-877-352-2255.

# Subpart E—Reporting Information on Government Aircraft

# Overview
§ 102-33.380
Who must report information to GSA on Government aircraft?
You must report information to GSA on Government aircraft if your agency—
(a) Is an executive agency of the United States Government; and
(b) Owns, bails, borrows, loans, leases, rents, charters, or contracts for (or obtains by ISSA) Government aircraft.
§ 102-33.385
What Federally-funded aviation activities of executive agencies are exempt from the requirement to report information to GSA on Government aircraft?
The following Federally-funded activities are exempt from the requirement to report information to GSA on Government aircraft:
(a) The Armed Forces (which includes the U.S. Coast Guard); and
(b) Agencies in the Intelligence Community.
§ 102-33.390
What information must we report on Government aircraft?
You must report the following information to GSA (for information regarding how to report this information, see:
https://gsa.inl.gov/fairs/
):
(a) Inventory data on Federal aircraft, including your Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), through FAIRS;
(b) Cost and utilization data on Federal aircraft, including your Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), through FAIRS;
(c) Cost and utilization data on CAS aircraft and related aviation services (see definition of “Government aircraft” for more on CAS), through FAIRS;
(d) Accident and incident data (see § 102-33.445); and
(e) The results of standard competition studies in compliance with OMB Circular A-76 to justify purchasing, leasing, modernizing, replacing, or otherwise acquiring aircraft and related aviation services.

# Federal Aviation Interactive Reporting System (FAIRS)
§ 102-33.395
What is FAIRS?
FAIRS is a management information system operated by GSA to collect, maintain, analyze, and report information on Federal aircraft inventories and cost and usage of Federal aircraft and CAS aircraft (and related aviation services). Users access FAIRS through a highly-secure Web site. The U.S. Government Aircraft Cost Accounting Guide (CAG) (see
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy
) contains the business rules for using the system.
§ 102-33.400
How must we report to FAIRS?
You must report to FAIRS electronically through a secure Web interface to the FAIRS application on the Internet. For additional information see
https://gsa.inl.gov/fairs/
.
§ 102-33.405
When must we report to FAIRS?
(a) You must report any changes in your Federal aircraft inventory within 14 calendar days of those changes.
(b) You must report cost and utilization data to FAIRS at the end of every quarter of the fiscal year (December 31, March 31, June 30, and September 30). However, you may submit your information to FAIRS on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis. To provide enough time to calculate your cost and utilization data, you may report any one quarter's cost and utilization in the following quarter, as follows:
Quarter
Submit
QTR 1—October 1-December 31
Federal inventory for QTR 1.
Federal cost and utilization for previous QTR 4.
CAS cost and utilization for previous QTR 4.
QTR 2—January 1-March 31
Federal inventory for QTR 2.
Federal cost and utilization for QTR 1.
CAS cost and utilization for QTR 1.
QTR 3—April 1-June 30
Federal inventory for QTR 3.
Federal cost and utilization for QTR 2.
CAS cost and utilization for QTR 2.
QTR 4—July 1-September 30
Federal inventory for QTR 4.
Federal cost and utilization for QTR 3.
CAS cost and utilization for QTR 3.

# Federal Inventory Data
§ 102-33.410
What are Federal inventory data?
Federal inventory data includes:
(a) Information on each of the operational and non-operational Federal aircraft that you own, bail, borrow, or loan; and
(b) UAS as described in § 102-33.20.
§ 102-33.415
When may we declassify a Federal aircraft and remove it from our Federal aircraft inventory?
When an aircraft is lost or destroyed, or is otherwise non-operational and you want to retain it, you may declassify it and remove it from your Federal aircraft inventory. For further details, see §§ 102-33.250 and 102-33.420. See §§ 102-33.265 and 102-33.270 for reporting excess Federal aircraft.
§ 102-33.420
How must we declassify a Federal aircraft?
To declassify a Federal aircraft, you must—
(a) Send a letter to the Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Asset and Transportation Management, Office of Government-wide Policy, General Services Administration, 1800 F St. NW., Washington, DC 20405, that requests approval to declassify the aircraft and states that the aircraft is non-operational (which includes lost or destroyed). In this letter you must—
(1) Identify the Federal Supply Classification (FSC) group(s) that the declassified aircraft/parts will fall under, if applicable;
(2) Describe the condition of the aircraft (crash-damaged, unrecoverable, parts unavailable, etc.); and
(3) Include photographs as appropriate.
(b) Within 14 calendar days of receiving GSA's approval to declassify the aircraft, following 14 CFR 45.13, request approval from your local FAA Flight Standards District Office (FSDO) to remove the manufacturer's data plate;
(c) Within 14 calendar days of receiving approval from FAA to remove the data plate, inform GSA of FAA's approval, send the data plate by courier or registered mail to the FAA, as directed by your FSDO, and remove the certificate of airworthiness and the aircraft's registration form from the aircraft, complete the reverse side of the registration form, and send both documents to The FAA Aircraft Registration Branch, P.O. Box 25504, Oklahoma City, OK 73125-0504; and
(d) Update the FAIRS inventory record to reflect disposal status and update your personal property records, deleting the declassified aircraft from the aircraft category and adding it to another Federal Supply Classification group or groups, as appropriate.

# Federal Aircraft Cost and Utilization Data
§ 102-33.425
What Federal aircraft cost and utilization data must we report?
You must report certain costs for each of your Federal aircraft (including your UAS) and the number of hours that you flew each aircraft. In reporting the costs of your Federal aircraft, you must report both the amounts you paid as Federal costs, which are for services the Government provides, and the amounts you paid for commercial aviation services (CAS) in support of your Federal aviation program. For a list and definitions of the Federal aircraft cost and utilization data elements, see the U.S. Government Aircraft Cost Accounting Guide (CAG), which is available at
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy.
§ 102-33.430
Who must report Federal aircraft cost and utilization data?
(a) Executive agencies, except the Armed Forces and agencies in the Intelligence Community, must report Federal cost and utilization data on all Federal aircraft; and
(b) Agencies should report Federal cost and utilization data for loaned aircraft only if Federal money was expended on the aircraft.

# Commercial Aviation Services (CAS) Cost and Utilization Data
§ 102-33.435
What CAS cost and utilization data must we report?
You must report:
(a) The costs and flying hours for each CAS aircraft you hire;
(b) The costs and contractual periods for related aviation services that you hire (by contract or through an Inter-service support agreement (ISSA)).

# Note to § 102-33.435:
You should not report related aviation services that you hire commercially in support of Federal aircraft. “Federal” aircraft are by definition owned aircraft. The agency that owns the aircraft is responsible for capturing all cost and utilization data and is required to report this data in GSA's FAIRS. See the U.S. Government Aircraft Cost Accounting Guide (CAG), which is available from GSA at
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy
.
§ 102-33.440
Who must report CAS cost and utilization data?
Executive agencies, except the Armed Forces and agencies in the Intelligence Community, must report CAS cost and utilization data. You must report CAS cost and utilization data if your agency makes payments to—
(a) Charter or rent aircraft;
(b) Lease or lease-purchase aircraft;
(c) Hire aircraft and related services through an ISSA or a full service contract; or
(d) Obtain related aviation services through an ISSA or by contract except when you use the services in support of Federal aircraft (see the Note at § 102-33.435).

# Accident and Incident Data
§ 102-33.445
What accident and incident data must we report?
You must report within 14 calendar days to GSA, Aviation Policy Division, 1800 F St. NW., Washington, DC 20405, all aviation accidents and incidents that your agency is required to report to the NTSB. You may also report other incident information. GSA and
the ICAP will use the collected accident/incident information in conjunction with FAIRS' data, such as flying hours and missions, to calculate aviation safety statistics for the Federal aviation community and to share safety lessons-learned.
§ 102-33.450
How must we report accident and incident data?
You must report accident and incident data to GSA at
http://www.gsa.gov/aviationpolicy
or call GSA's Aviation Policy Division and report the accident or incident telephonically.

# Common Aviation Management Information Standard (C-AMIS)
§ 102-33.455
What is C-AMIS?
The Common Aviation Management Information Standard (C-AMIS) is a guide to assist agencies in developing or modernizing their internal aviation management information systems. C-AMIS includes standard specifications and data definitions related to Federal aviation operations. C-AMIS is jointly written by the ICAP and GSA and available from GSA's Aviation Policy Division.
§ 102-33.460
What is our responsibility in relation to C-AMIS?
If you use a management information system to provide data to FAIRS by batch upload, you are responsible for ensuring that your system is C-AMIS-compliant (see § 102-33.195). For more information on compliance with C-AMIS, contact GSA's Aviation Policy Division at (202) 208-0519 or (202) 997-7274.

# Performance Indicators
§ 102-33.465
What is a performance indicator?
In addition to the definition in § 102-33.20, a performance indicator provides information (either qualitative or quantitative) on the extent to which the actual outcome of a policy, program, or initiative achieves the planned outcome.
§ 102-33.470
Must we develop performance indicators?
Yes, your agency must develop performance indicators in order to measure the degree to which key aviation program objectives are achieved. It is suggested that your performance indicators:
(a) Measure the contribution of the aviation program toward the accomplishment of the agency's mission;
(b) Support and justify aviation program budget requests; and
(c) Demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the aviation program's performance.
§ 102-33.475
What are some examples of performance indicators that an agency can use?
Examples of performance indicators include, but are not limited to, a percentage increase or decrease:
(a) Of operations scheduling effectiveness;
(b) Of repeat system discrepancies over a specific period of time;
(c) In logistical response time for returned parts processing over a specified period of time;
(d) In lost man-hours due to personnel injuries;
(e) In aircraft turn-around time;
(f) In fuel expenditures for a given mission, location, or type/model/series of aircraft;
(g) In aircraft availability or non-availability rates;
(h) In full-mission-capable aircraft over a specific time period;
(i) In non-airworthy maintenance;
(j) In maintenance costs per flying hour; or
(k) In variable cost per passenger mile.
Pt. 102-33, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 102-33—Disclosure Statement for Crewmembers and Qualified Non-Crewmembers Flying on Board Government Aircraft Operated as Public Aircraft
Generally, an aircraft used exclusively for the U.S. Government may be considered a “public aircraft” as defined by Public Law 106-181 and 14 CFR Chapter I, provided it is not a Government-owned aircraft transporting passengers or operating for commercial purposes. A public aircraft is not subject to many Federal Aviation Regulations, including requirements relating to aircraft certification, maintenance, and pilot certification. If the aircraft does not qualify as a “public aircraft”, then it is a civil aircraft
and must comply with all Federal Aviation Regulations applicable to civil aircraft. If you have any questions concerning whether a particular flight will be a public aircraft operation or a civil aircraft operation, you should contact the agency sponsor of that flight.

# Rights and Benefits
You have certain rights and benefits in the unlikely event you are injured or killed while working aboard a Government-owned or operated aircraft. Federal employees and some private citizens are eligible for workers' compensation benefits under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA). When FECA applies, it is the sole remedy. For more information about FECA and its coverage, consult with your agency's benefits office or contact the Branch of Technical Assistance at the Department of Labor's Office of Workers' Compensation Programs.

# State or Foreign Laws
State or foreign laws may provide for product liability or “third party” causes of actions for personal injury or wrongful death. If you have questions about a particular case or believe you have a claim, you should consult with an attorney.

# Insurance Policies
Some insurance policies may exclude coverage for injuries or death sustained while working or traveling aboard a Government or military aircraft or while within a combat area. You may wish to check your policy or consult with your insurance provider before your flight. The insurance available to Federal employees through the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program does not contain an exclusion of this type.

# Victim Rights
If you are the victim of an air disaster resulting from criminal activity, Victim and Witness Specialists from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and/or the local U.S. Attorney's Office will keep you or your family informed about the status of the criminal investigation(s) and provide you or your family with information about rights and services, such as crisis intervention, counseling and emotional support. State crime victim compensation may be able to cover crime-related expenses, such as medical costs, mental health counseling, funeral and burial costs, and lost wages or loss of support. The Office for Victims of Crime (an agency of the Department of Justice) and the U.S. Attorneys Office are authorized by the Antiterrorism Act of 1996 to provide emergency financial assistance to State programs for the benefit of victims of terrorist acts or mass violence.

# Federal Employee
If you are injured or killed on the job during the performance of duty, including while traveling or working aboard a Government aircraft or other Government-owned or operated conveyance for official Government business purposes, you and your family are eligible to collect workers' compensation benefits under FECA. You and your family may not file a personal injury or wrongful death suit against the United States or its employees. However, you may have cause of action against potentially liable third parties.

# Family Member
You or your qualifying family member must normally also choose between FECA disability or death benefits, and those payable under your retirement system (either the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System). You may choose the benefit that is more favorable to you.

# Private Citizen
Even if the Federal Government does not regularly employ you, if you are rendering personal service to the Federal Government on a voluntary basis or for nominal pay, you may be defined as a Federal employee for purposes of FECA. If that is the case, you and your family are eligible to receive workers' compensation benefits under FECA, but may not collect in a personal injury or wrongful death lawsuit against the United States or its employees. You and your family may file suit against potentially liable third parties. Before you board a Government aircraft, you may wish to consult with the department or agency sponsoring the flight to clarify whether you are considered a Federal employee.
If the agency determines that you are not a “Federal employee,” you and your family will not be eligible to receive workers' compensation benefits under FECA. If you are onboard the aircraft for purposes of official Government business, you may be eligible for workers' compensation benefits under state law. If an accident occurs within the United States, or its territories, its airspace, or over the high seas, you and your family may claim against the United States under the Federal Tort Claims Act or Suits in Admiralty Act. If you are killed aboard a military aircraft, your family may be eligible to receive compensation under the Military Claims Act, or if you are an inhabitant of a foreign country, under the Foreign Claims Act.

# Note to appendix A to part 102-33:
This disclosure statement is not all-inclusive. You should contact your agency's personnel office, or if you are a private citizen, your
agency sponsor or point-of-contact for further assistance.
Pt. 102-34

# PART 102-34—MOTOR VEHICLE MANAGEMENT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-34.5
What does this part cover?
102-34.10
What are the governing authorities for this part?
102-34.15
Who must comply with these provisions?
102-34.20
What motor vehicles are not covered by this part?
102-34.25
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
102-34.30
How do we request a deviation from the provisions of this part?

# Definitions
102-34.35
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Obtaining Fuel Efficient Motor Vehicles
102-34.40
Who must comply with motor vehicle fuel efficiency requirements?
102-34.45
How are passenger automobiles classified?
102-34.50
What size motor vehicles may we obtain?
102-34.55
Are there fleet average fuel economy standards we must meet?
102-34.60
How do we calculate the average fuel economy for Government motor vehicles?
102-34.65
How may we request an exemption from the fuel economy standards?
102-34.70
What do we do with completed calculations of our fleet vehicle acquisitions?
102-34.75
Who is responsible for monitoring our compliance with fuel economy standards for motor vehicles we obtain?
102-34.80
Where may we obtain help with our motor vehicle acquisition plans?

# Subpart C—Identifying and Registering Motor Vehicles

# Motor Vehicle Identification
102-34.85
What motor vehicles require motor vehicle identification?
102-34.90
What motor vehicle identification must we display on Government motor vehicles?
102-34.95
What motor vehicle identification must the Department of Defense (DOD) display on motor vehicles it owns, or leases commercially?
102-34.100
Where is motor vehicle identification displayed?
102-34.105
Before we sell a motor vehicle, what motor vehicle identification must we remove?

# License Plates
102-34.110
Must Government motor vehicles use Government license plates?
102-34.115
Can official U.S. Government license plates be used on motor vehicles not owned or leased by the Government?
102-34.120
Do we need to register Government motor vehicles?
102-34.125
Where may we obtain U.S. Government license plates?
102-34.130
How do we display U.S. Government license plates on Government motor vehicles?
102-34.135
What do we do about a lost or stolen license plate?
102-34.140
What records do we need to keep on U.S. Government license plates?
102-34.145
How are U.S. Government license plates coded?
102-34.150
How can we get a new license plate code designation?

# Identification Exemptions
102-34.155
What are the types of motor vehicle identification exemptions?
102-34.160
May we have a limited exemption from displaying U.S. Government license plates and other motor vehicle identification?
102-34.165
What information must the limited exemption certification contain?
102-34.170
For how long is a limited exemption valid?
102-34.175
What motor vehicles have an unlimited exemption from displaying U.S. Government license plates and motor vehicle identification?
102-34.180
What agencies have a special exemption from displaying U.S. Government license plates and motor vehicle identification on some of their vehicles?
102-34.185
What license plates do we use on motor vehicles that are exempt from motor vehicle identification requirements?
102-34.190
What special requirements apply to exempted motor vehicles using District of Columbia or State license plates?
102-34.195
Must we submit a report concerning motor vehicles exempted under this subpart?

# Subpart D—Official Use of Government Motor Vehicles
102-34.200
What is official use of Government motor vehicles?
102-34.205
May I use a Government motor vehicle for transportation between my residence and place of employment?
102-34.210
May I use a Government motor vehicle for transportation between places
of employment and mass transit facilities?
102-34.215
May Government contractors use Government motor vehicles?
102-34.220
What does GSA do if it learns of unofficial use of a Government motor vehicle?
102-34.225
How are Federal employees disciplined for misuse of Government motor vehicles?
102-34.230
How am I responsible for protecting Government motor vehicles?
102-34.235
Am I bound by State and local traffic laws?
102-34.240
Who pays for parking fees?
102-34.245
Who pays for parking fines?
102-34.250
Do Federal employees in Government motor vehicles have to use all safety devices and follow all safety guidelines?

# Subpart E—Replacement of Motor Vehicles
102-34.255
What are motor vehicle replacement standards?
102-34.260
May we replace a Government-owned motor vehicle sooner?
102-34.265
May we keep a Government-owned motor vehicle even though the standard permits replacement?
102-34.270
How long must we keep a Government-owned motor vehicle?

# Subpart F—Scheduled Maintenance of Motor Vehicles
102-34.275
What kind of maintenance programs must we have?
102-34.280
What State inspections must we have for Government motor vehicles?
102-34.285
Where can we obtain help in setting up a maintenance program?

# Subpart G—Motor Vehicle Crash Reporting
102-34.290
What forms do I use to report a crash involving a domestic fleet motor vehicle?
102-34.295
To whom do we send crash reports?

# Subpart H—Disposal of Motor Vehicles
102-34.300
How do we dispose of a domestic fleet motor vehicle?
102-34.305
What forms do we use to transfer ownership when selling a motor vehicle?
102-34.310
How do we distribute the completed Standard Form 97?

# Subpart I—Motor Vehicle Fueling
102-34.315
How do we obtain fuel for Government motor vehicles?
102-34.320
What Government-issued charge cards may I use to purchase fuel and motor vehicle related services?
102-34.325
What type of fuel do I use in Government motor vehicles?

# Subpart J—Federal Fleet Report
102-34.330
What is the Federal Fleet Report?
102-34.335
How do I submit information to the General Services Administration (GSA) for the Federal Fleet Report (FFR)?
102-34.340
Do we need a fleet management information system?
102-34.345
What records do we need to keep?

# Subpart K—Forms
102-34.350
How do we obtain the forms prescribed in this part?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); 40 U.S.C. 17503; 31 U.S.C. 1344; 49 U.S.C. 32917; E.O. 12375.

# Source:
74 FR 11871, Mar. 20, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-34.5
What does this part cover?
This part governs the economical and efficient management and control of motor vehicles that the Government owns, leases commercially or leases through GSA Fleet. Agencies will incorporate appropriate provisions of this part into contracts offering Government-furnished equipment in order to ensure adequate control over the use of motor vehicles.
§ 102-34.10
What are the governing authorities for this part?
The authorities for the regulations in this part are 40 U.S.C. 121(c), 40 U.S.C. 17503, 31 U.S.C. 1344, 49 U.S.C. 32917, and E.O. 12375.
§ 102-34.15
Who must comply with these provisions?
All executive agencies must comply with the provisions of this part. The legislative and judicial branches are encouraged to follow these provisions.
§ 102-34.20
What motor vehicles are not covered by this part?
Motor vehicles not covered by this part are:
(a) Military design motor vehicles;
(b) Motor vehicles used for military field training, combat, or tactical purposes;
(c) Motor vehicles used principally within the confines of a regularly established military post, camp, or depot; and
(d) Motor vehicles regularly used by an agency to perform investigative, law enforcement, or intelligence duties, if the head of the agency determines that exclusive control of the vehicle is essential for effective performance of duties, although such vehicles are subject to subpart D and subpart J of this part.
§ 102-34.25
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
Unless otherwise indicated, use of pronouns “we”, “you”, and their variants throughout this part refer to you as an executive agency, as your agency's fleet manager, or as a motor vehicle user or operator, as appropriate.
§ 102-34.30
How do we request a deviation from the provisions of this part?
Refer to §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter for information on how to obtain a deviation from this part.

# Definitions
§ 102-34.35
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Commercial design motor vehicle
means a motor vehicle procurable from regular production lines and designed for use by the general public.
Commercial lease or lease commercially
means obtaining a motor vehicle by contract or other arrangement from a commercial source for 120 continuous days or more. (Procedures for purchasing and leasing motor vehicles through GSA can be found in 41 CFR subpart 101-26.5).
Domestic fleet
means all reportable motor vehicles operated in any State, Commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Foreign fleet
means all reportable motor vehicles operated in areas outside any State, Commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Government motor vehicle
means any motor vehicle that the Government owns or leases. This includes motor vehicles obtained through purchase, excess, forfeiture, commercial lease, or GSA Fleet lease.
Government-owned motor vehicle
means any motor vehicle that the Government has obtained through purchase, excess, forfeiture, or otherwise and for which the Government holds title.
GSA Fleet lease
means obtaining a motor vehicle from the General Services Administration Fleet (GSA Fleet).
Law enforcement motor vehicle
means a light duty motor vehicle that is specifically approved in an agency's appropriation act for use in apprehension, surveillance, police or other law enforcement work or specifically designed for use in law enforcement. If not identified in an agency's appropriation language, a motor vehicle qualifies as a law enforcement motor vehicle only in the following cases:
(1) A passenger automobile having heavy duty components for electrical, cooling and suspension systems and at least the next higher cubic inch displacement or more powerful engine than is standard for the automobile concerned;
(2) A light truck having emergency warning lights and identified with markings such as “police;”
(3) An unmarked motor vehicle certified by the agency head as essential for the safe and efficient performance of intelligence, counterintelligence, protective, or other law enforcement duties; or
(4) A forfeited motor vehicle seized by a Federal agency that is subsequently used for the purpose of performing law enforcement activities.
Light duty motor vehicle
means any motor vehicle with a gross motor vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 8,500 pounds or less.
Light truck
means a motor vehicle on a truck chassis with a gross motor vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 8,500 pounds or less.
Military design motor vehicle
means a motor vehicle (excluding commercial
design motor vehicles) designed according to military specifications to directly support combat or tactical operations or training for such operations.
Motor vehicle
means any vehicle, self propelled or drawn by mechanical power, designed and operated principally for highway transportation of property or passengers, but does not include a military design motor vehicle or vehicles not covered by this part (see § 102-34.20).
Motor vehicle identification
(also referred to as “motor vehicle markings”) means the legends “For Official Use Only” and “U.S. Government” placed on a motor vehicle plus other legends readily identifying the department, agency, establishment, corporation, or service by which the motor vehicle is used.
Motor vehicle markings
(see definition of “Motor vehicle identification” in this section).
Motor vehicle purchase
means buying a motor vehicle from a commercial source, usually a motor vehicle manufacturer or a motor vehicle manufacturer's dealership. (Procedures for purchasing and leasing motor vehicles through GSA can be found in 41 CFR subpart 101-26.5.)
Motor vehicle rental
means obtaining a motor vehicle by contract or other arrangement from a commercial source for less than 120 continuous days.
Motor vehicles transferred from excess
means obtaining a motor vehicle reported as excess and transferred with or without cost.
Owning agency
means the executive agency that holds the vehicle title, manufacturer's Certificate of Origin, or is the lessee of a commercial lease. This term does not apply to agencies that lease motor vehicles from the GSA Fleet.
Passenger automobile
means a sedan or station wagon designed primarily to transport people.
Reportable motor vehicles
are any Government motor vehicles used by an executive agency or activity, including those used by contractors. Also included are motor vehicles designed or acquired for a specific or unique purpose, including motor vehicles that serve as a platform or conveyance for special equipment, such as a trailer. Excluded are material handling equipment and construction equipment not designed and used primarily for highway operation (e.g., if it must be trailered or towed to be transported).
Using agency
means an executive agency that obtains motor vehicles from the GSA Fleet, commercial firms or another executive agency and does not hold the vehicle title or manufacturer's Certificate of Origin. However, this does not include an executive agency that obtains a motor vehicle by motor vehicle rental.
[74 FR 11871, Mar. 20, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 76623, Dec. 8, 2011]

# Subpart B—Obtaining Fuel Efficient Motor Vehicles
§ 102-34.40
Who must comply with motor vehicle fuel efficiency requirements?
(a) Executive agencies operating domestic fleets must comply with motor vehicle fuel efficiency requirements for such fleets.
(b) This subpart does not apply to motor vehicles exempted by law or other regulations, such as law enforcement or emergency rescue work and foreign fleets. Other Federal agencies are encouraged to comply so that maximum energy conservation benefits may be realized in obtaining, operating, and managing Government motor vehicles.
§ 102-34.45
How are passenger automobiles classified?
Passenger automobiles are classified in the following table:
Sedan class
Station wagon class
Descriptive name
I
I
Subcompact.
II
II
Compact.
III
III
Midsize.
IV
IV
Large.
V
Limousine.
§ 102-34.50
What size motor vehicles may we obtain?
(a) You may only obtain the minimum size of motor vehicle necessary to fulfill your agency's mission in accordance with the following considerations:
(1) You must obtain motor vehicles that achieve maximum fuel efficiency.
(2) Limit motor vehicle body size, engine size and optional equipment to what is essential to meet your agency's mission.
(3) With the exception of motor vehicles used by the President and Vice President and motor vehicles for security and highly essential needs, you must obtain midsize (class III) or smaller sedans.
(4) Obtain large (class IV) sedans only when such motor vehicles are essential to your agency's mission.
(b) Agencies must establish and document a structured vehicle allocation methodology to determine the appropriate size and number of motor vehicles (see FMR Bulletin B-9, located at
http://www.gsa.gov/bulletin
, for guidance).
§ 102-34.55
Are there fleet average fuel economy standards we must meet?
(a) Yes. 49 U.S.C. 32917 and Executive Order 12375 require that each executive agency meet the fleet average fuel economy standards in place as of January 1 of each fiscal year. The standards for passenger automobiles are prescribed in 49 U.S.C. 32902(b). The Department of Transportation publishes the standards for light trucks and amendments to the standards for passenger automobiles at
http://www.dot.gov.
(b) These standards do not apply to military design motor vehicles, law enforcement motor vehicles, or motor vehicles intended for emergency rescue.
§ 102-34.60
How do we calculate the average fuel economy for Government motor vehicles?
You must calculate the average fuel economy for Government motor vehicles as follows:
(a) Because there are so many motor vehicle configurations, you must take an average of all light duty motor vehicles by category that your agency obtained and operated during the fiscal year.
(b) This calculation is the sum of such light duty motor vehicles divided by the sum of the fractions representing the number of motor vehicles of each category by model divided by the unadjusted city/highway mile-per-gallon ratings for that model. The unadjusted city/highway mile-per-gallon ratings for each make and model are published by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for each model year and published at
http://www.fueleconomy.gov.
(c) An example follows:
Light trucks:
(i) 600 light trucks acquired in a specific year. These are broken down into:
(A) 200 Six cylinder automatic transmission pick-up trucks, EPA rating: 24.3 mpg, plus
(B) 150 Six cylinder automatic transmission mini-vans, EPA rating: 24.8 mpg, plus
(C) 150 Eight cylinder automatic transmission pick-up trucks, EPA rating: 20.4 mpg, plus
(D) 100 Eight cylinder automatic transmission cargo vans, EPA rating: 22.2 mpg.
ER20MR09.000
(ii) Fleet average fuel economy for light trucks in this case is 23.0 mpg.
§ 102-34.65
How may we request an exemption from the fuel economy standards?
You must submit a written request for an exemption from the fuel economy standards to: Administrator, General Services Administration, ATTN: Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Travel, Transportation and Asset Management (MT), Washington, DC 20405.
(a) Your request for an exemption must include all relevant information necessary to permit review of the request that the vehicles be exempted based on energy conservation, economy, efficiency, or service. Exemptions may be sought for individual vehicles or categories of vehicles.
(b) GSA will review the request and advise you of the determination within 30 days of receipt. Light duty motor vehicles exempted under the provisions of this section must not be included in calculating your fleet average fuel economy.
§ 102-34.70
What do we do with completed calculations of our fleet vehicle acquisitions?
You must maintain the average fuel economy data for each year's vehicle acquisitions on file at your agency headquarters in accordance with the National Archives and Records Administration, General Records Schedule 10, Motor Vehicle and Aircraft Maintenance and Operations Records, Item 4, Motor Vehicle Report Files. Exemption requests and their disposition must also be maintained with the average fuel economy files.
§ 102-34.75
Who is responsible for monitoring our compliance with fuel economy standards for motor vehicles we obtain?
Executive agencies are responsible for monitoring their own compliance with fuel economy standards for motor vehicles they obtain.
§ 102-34.80
Where may we obtain help with our motor vehicle acquisition plans?
For help with your motor vehicle acquisition plans, contact the: General Services Administration, ATTN: MT, Washington, DC 20405. E-mail:
vehicle.policy@gsa.gov.

# Subpart C—Identifying and Registering Motor Vehicles

# Motor Vehicle Identification
§ 102-34.85
What motor vehicles require motor vehicle identification?
All Government motor vehicles must display motor vehicle identification unless exempted under § 102-34.160, § 102-34.175 or § 102-34.180.
§ 102-34.90
What motor vehicle identification must we display on Government motor vehicles?
Unless exempted under § 102-34.160, § 102-34.175 or § 102-34.180, Government motor vehicles must display the following identification:
(a) “For Official Use Only”;
(b) “U.S. Government”; and
(c) Identification that readily identifies the agency owning the vehicle.
§ 102-34.95
What motor vehicle identification must the Department of Defense (DOD) display on motor vehicles it owns or leases commercially?
Unless exempted under § 102-34.160, § 102-34.175 or § 102-34.180, the following must appear on motor vehicles that the DOD owns or leases commercially:
(a) “For Official Use Only”; and
(b) An appropriate title for the DOD component responsible for the vehicle.
§ 102-34.100
Where is motor vehicle identification displayed?
Motor vehicle identification is displayed as follows:
(a)
For most Government motor vehicles,
preferably on the official U.S. Government license plate. Some Government motor vehicles may display motor vehicle identification on a decal in the rear window, or centered on both front doors if the vehicle is without a rear window, or where identification on the rear window would not be easily seen.
(b)
For trailers,
on both sides of the front quarter of the trailer in a conspicuous location.

# Note to § 102-34.100:
Each agency or activity that uses decals to identify Government motor vehicles is responsible for acquiring
its own decals and for replacing them when necessary due to damage or wear.
§ 102-34.105
Before we sell a motor vehicle, what motor vehicle identification must we remove?
You must remove all motor vehicle identification before you transfer the title or deliver the motor vehicle.

# License Plates
§ 102-34.110
Must Government motor vehicles use Government license plates?
Yes, you must use Government license plates on Government motor vehicles, with the exception of motor vehicles exempted under § 102-34.160, § 102-34.175 or § 102-34.180.
§ 102-34.115
Can official U.S. Government license plates be used on motor vehicles not owned or leased by the Government?
No, official U.S. Government license plates may only be used on Government motor vehicles.
§ 102-34.120
Do we need to register Government motor vehicles?
If the Government motor vehicle displays U.S. Government license plates and motor vehicle identification, you do not need to register it in the jurisdiction where the vehicle is operated, however, you must register it in the Federal Government Motor Vehicle Registration System. GSA Fleet may register motor vehicles leased from GSA Fleet. Motor vehicles that have been exempted from the requirement to display official U.S. Government license plates under section § 102-34.160, § 102-34.175 or § 102-34.180 must be registered and inspected in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction where the motor vehicle is regularly operated.
§ 102-34.125
Where may we obtain U.S. Government license plates?
You may obtain U.S. Government license plates for domestic fleets—
(a) By contacting: U.S. Department of Justice, UNICOR, Federal Prison Industries, Inc., 400 First Street, NW., Room 6010, Washington, DC 20534.
(b) For assistance with any issues involving license plates, contact the following office: General Services Administration, ATTN: MT, Washington, DC 20405. E-mail:
vehicle.policy@gsa.gov.

# Note to § 102-34.125:
GSA has established a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on behalf of all Federal agencies with Federal Prison Industries (UNICOR) for the procurement of official U.S. Government license plates. Each agency must execute an addendum to this MOU providing plate design and specific ordering and payment information before ordering license plates. Agency field activities should contact their national level Agency Fleet Manager for assistance.
§ 102-34.130
How do we display U.S. Government license plates on Government motor vehicles?
(a) Display official U.S. Government license plates on the front and rear of all Government motor vehicles. The exception is two-wheeled motor vehicles and trailers, which require rear license plates only.
(b) You must display U.S. Government license plates on the Government motor vehicle to which the license plates were assigned.
(c) Display the U.S. Government license plates until the Government motor vehicle is removed from Government service or is transferred outside the agency, or until the plates are damaged and require replacement. U.S. Government license plates shall only be used for one Government motor vehicle and shall not be reissued to another Government motor vehicle.
(d) For motor vehicles owned or commercially leased by DOD, also follow DOD regulations.
§ 102-34.135
What do we do about a lost or stolen license plate?
You must report the loss or theft of license plates as follows:
(a)
U.S. Government license plates.
Report to your local security office (or equivalent), local police, to GSA Fleet when a GSA Fleet leased motor vehicle is involved, and to the Federal Government Motor Vehicle Registration System.
(b)
District of Columbia or State license plates.
Report to your local security office (or equivalent) and either the District of Columbia Department of Transportation, or the State Department of Motor Vehicles, as appropriate.
§ 102-34.140
What records do we need to keep on U.S. Government license plates?
You must keep a central record of all U.S. Government license plates for Government motor vehicles. The GSA Fleet must also keep such a record for GSA Fleet vehicles. The record must:
(a) Identify the motor vehicle to which each set of plates is assigned; and
(b) List lost, stolen, destroyed, and voided license plate numbers.
§ 102-34.145
How are U.S. Government license plates coded?
U.S. Government license plate numbers will be preceded by a letter code that designates the owning agency for the motor vehicle. The agency letter codes are listed in GSA Bulletin FMR Bulletin B-11. (FMR bulletins are located at
http://www.gsa.gov/bulletin.
)
§ 102-34.150
How can we get a new license plate code designation?
To obtain a new license plate code designation, write to the: General Services Administration, ATTN: MT, Washington, DC 20405. E-mail:
vehicle.policy@gsa.gov.

# Identification Exemptions
§ 102-34.155
What are the types of motor vehicle identification exemptions?
The types of motor vehicle identification exemptions are:
(a) Limited exemption.
(b) Unlimited exemption.
(c) Special exemption.
§ 102-34.160
May we have a limited exemption from displaying U.S. Government license plates and other motor vehicle identification?
Yes. The head of your agency or designee may authorize a limited exemption to the display of U.S. Government license plates and motor vehicle identification upon written certification (see § 102-34.165). For motor vehicles leased from the GSA Fleet, send an information copy of this certification to the: General Services Administration, ATTN: GSA Fleet (QMDB), 2200 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202.
§ 102-34.165
What information must the limited exemption certification contain?
The certification must state that identifying the motor vehicle would endanger the security of the vehicle occupants or otherwise compromise the agency mission.
§ 102-34.170
For how long is a limited exemption valid?
An exemption granted in accordance with § 102-34.160 may last from one day up to 3 years. If the requirement for exemption still exists beyond 3 years, your agency must re-certify the continued exemption. For a motor vehicle leased from the GSA Fleet, send a copy of the re-certification to the: General Services Administration, ATTN: GSA Fleet (QMDB), 2200 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202.
§ 102-34.175
What motor vehicles have an unlimited exemption from displaying U.S. Government license plates and motor vehicle identification?
Motor vehicles used primarily for investigative, law enforcement, intelligence, or security duties have an unlimited exemption from displaying U.S. Government license plates and motor vehicle identification when identifying these motor vehicles would interfere with those duties.
§ 102-34.180
What agencies have a special exemption from displaying U.S. Government license plates and motor vehicle identification on some of their vehicles?
Motor vehicles assigned for the use of the President and the heads of executive departments specified in 5 U.S.C. 101 are exempt from the requirement to display motor vehicle identification.
§ 102-34.185
What license plates do we use on motor vehicles that are exempt from motor vehicle identification requirements?
For motor vehicles that are exempt from motor vehicle identification requirements, display the regular license plates of the State, Commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, where the motor vehicle is principally operated (see § 102-34.120).
§ 102-34.190
What special requirements apply to exempted motor vehicles using District of Columbia or State license plates?
Your agency head must designate an official to authorize the District of Columbia (DC) or State motor vehicle department to issue DC license plates or State license plates for motor vehicles exempt from displaying U.S. Government license plates and motor vehicle identification. The agency head must provide the name and signature of that official to the DC Department of Transportation annually, or to the equivalent State vehicle motor vehicle department, as required. Agencies must pay DC and the States for these license plates in accordance with DC or State policy. Also, for motor vehicles leased from the GSA Fleet, send a list of the new plates to: General Services Administration, ATTN: GSA Fleet (QMDB), 2200 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202.
§ 102-34.195
Must we submit a report concerning motor vehicles exempted under this subpart?
Yes. If asked, the head of each executive agency must submit a report concerning motor vehicles exempted under this subpart. This report, which has been assigned interagency report control number 1537-GSA-AR, should be submitted to the: General Services Administration, ATTN: MT, Washington, DC 20405. E-mail:
vehicle.policy@gsa.gov.

# Subpart D—Official Use of Government Motor Vehicles
§ 102-34.200
What is official use of Government motor vehicles?
Official use of a Government motor vehicle is using a Government motor vehicle to perform your agency's mission(s), as authorized by your agency.
§ 102-34.205
May I use a Government motor vehicle for transportation between my residence and place of employment?
No, you may not use a Government motor vehicle for transportation between your residence and place of employment unless your agency authorizes such use after making the necessary determination under 31 U.S.C. 1344 and part 102-5 of this title. Your agency must keep a copy of the written authorization within the agency and monitor the use of these motor vehicles.
§ 102-34.210
May I use a Government motor vehicle for transportation between places of employment and mass transit facilities?
Yes, you may use a Government motor vehicle for transportation between places of employment and mass transit facilities under the following conditions:
(a) The head of your agency must make a determination in writing, valid for one year, that such use is appropriate and consistent with sound budget policy, and the determination must be kept on file;
(b) There is no safe and reliable commercial or duplicative Federal mass transportation service that serves the same route on a regular basis;
(c) This transportation is made available, space provided, to other Federal employees;
(d) Alternative fuel vehicles should be used to the maximum extent practicable;
(e) This transportation should be provided in a manner that does not result in any additional gross income for Federal income tax purposes; and
(f) Motor vehicle ridership levels must be frequently monitored to ensure cost/benefit of providing and maintaining this transportation.
§ 102-34.215
May Government contractors use Government motor vehicles?
Yes, Government contractors may use Government motor vehicles when authorized in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), GSA Fleet procedures, and the following conditions:
(a) Government motor vehicles are used for official purposes only and solely in the performance of the contract;
(b) Government motor vehicles cannot be used for transportation between residence and place of employment, unless authorized in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 1344 and part 102-5 of this chapter; and
(c) Contractors must:
(1) Establish and enforce suitable penalties against employees who use,
or authorize the use of, Government motor vehicles for unofficial purposes or for other than in the performance of the contract; and
(2) Pay any expenses or cost, without Government reimbursement, for using Government motor vehicles other than in the performance of the contract.
§ 102-34.220
What does GSA do if it learns of unofficial use of a Government motor vehicle?
GSA reports the matter to the head of your agency. The agency investigates and may, if appropriate, take disciplinary action under 31 U.S.C. 1349 or may report the violation to the Attorney General for prosecution under 18 U.S.C. 641.
§ 102-34.225
How are Federal employees disciplined for misuse of Government motor vehicles?
If an employee willfully uses, or authorizes the use of, a Government motor vehicle for other than official purposes, the employee is subject to suspension of at least one month or, up to and including, removal by the head of the agency (31 U.S.C. 1349).
§ 102-34.230
How am I responsible for protecting Government motor vehicles?
When a Government motor vehicle is under your control, you must:
(a) Park or store the Government motor vehicle in a manner that reasonably protects it from theft or damage; and
(b) Lock the unattended Government motor vehicle. (The only exception to this requirement is when fire regulations or other directives prohibit locking motor vehicles in closed buildings or enclosures.)
§ 102-34.235
Am I bound by State and local traffic laws?
Yes. You must obey all motor vehicle traffic laws of the State and local jurisdiction, except when the duties of your position require otherwise. You are personally responsible if you violate State or local traffic laws. If you are fined or otherwise penalized for an offense you commit while performing your official duties, but which was not required as part of your official duties, payment is your personal responsibility.
§ 102-34.240
Who pays for parking fees?
You must pay parking fees while operating a Government motor vehicle. However, you can expect to be reimbursed for parking fees incurred while performing official duties.
§ 102-34.245
Who pays for parking fines?
If you are fined for a parking violation while operating a Government motor vehicle, you are responsible for paying the fine and will not be reimbursed.
§ 102-34.250
Do Federal employees in Government motor vehicles have to use all safety devices and follow all safety guidelines?
Yes, Federal employees in Government motor vehicles have to use all provided safety devices including safety belts and follow all appropriate motor vehicle manufacturer safety guidelines.

# Subpart E—Replacement of Motor Vehicles
§ 102-34.255
What are motor vehicle replacement standards?
Motor vehicle replacement standards specify the minimum number of years in use or miles traveled at which an executive agency may replace a Government-owned motor vehicle (see § 102-34.270).
§ 102-34.260
May we replace a Government-owned motor vehicle sooner?
Yes. You may replace a Government-owned motor vehicle if it needs body or mechanical repairs that exceed the fair market value of the motor vehicle. Determine the fair market value by adding the current market value of the motor vehicle plus any capitalized motor vehicle additions (such as a utility body or liftgate) or repairs. Your agency head or designee must review the replacement in advance.
§ 102-34.265
May we keep a Government-owned motor vehicle even though the standard permits replacement?
Yes. The replacement standard is a minimum only, and therefore, you may keep a Government-owned motor vehicle longer than shown in § 102-34.270 if the motor vehicle can be operated without excessive maintenance costs or substantial reduction in resale value.
§ 102-34.270
How long must we keep a Government-owned motor vehicle?
You must keep a Government-owned motor vehicle for at least the years or miles shown in the following table, unless it is no longer needed and declared excess:
Table of Minimum Replacement Standards
Motor vehicle type
Years
1
Or miles
1
Sedans/Station Wagons
3
60,000
Ambulances
7
60,000
Buses:
Intercity
n/a
280,000
City
n/a
150,000
School
n/a
80,000
Trucks:
Less than 12,500 pounds GVWR
6
50,000
12,500-23,999 pounds GVWR
7
60,000
24,000 pounds GVWR and over
9
80,000
4- or 6-wheel drive motor vehicles
6
40,000
1
Minimum standards are stated in both years and miles; use whichever occurs first.

# Subpart F—Scheduled Maintenance of Motor Vehicles
§ 102-34.275
What kind of maintenance programs must we have?
You must have a scheduled maintenance program for each motor vehicle you own or lease commercially. This requirement applies to domestic fleets, and is recommended for foreign fleets. The GSA Fleet will develop maintenance programs for GSA Fleet vehicles. The scheduled maintenance program must:
(a) Meet Federal and State emissions and safety standards;
(b) Meet manufacturer warranty requirements;
(c) Ensure the safe and economical operating condition of the motor vehicle throughout its life; and
(d) Ensure that inspections and servicing occur as recommended by the manufacturer or more often if local operating conditions require.
§ 102-34.280
What State inspections must we have for Government motor vehicles?
You must have the following State inspections for Government motor vehicles:
(a) Federally-mandated emissions inspections when required by the relevant State motor vehicle administration or State environmental department. Your agency must pay for these inspections if the fee is not waived. GSA Fleet will pay the cost of these inspections for motor vehicles leased from GSA Fleet; or
(b) For motor vehicles that display license plates issued by a State, Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, motor vehicle safety inspections required by the relevant motor vehicle administration. Your agency must pay for these inspections unless the fee is waived. Payment for these inspections for motor vehicles leased from GSA Fleet is the responsibility of the using agency. Government motor vehicles that display official U.S. Government license plates do not require motor vehicle safety inspections.
§ 102-34.285
Where can we obtain help in setting up a maintenance program?
For help in setting up a maintenance program, contact the: General Services Administration, Attn: Motor Vehicle Policy, Washington, DC 20405. E-mail:
vehicle.policy@gsa.gov.

# Subpart G—Motor Vehicle Crash Reporting
§ 102-34.290
What forms do I use to report a crash involving a domestic fleet motor vehicle?
Use the following forms to report a domestic fleet crash. The forms should be carried in any domestic fleet motor vehicle.
(a)
Standard Form (SF) 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report.
The motor vehicle operator should complete this form at
the time and scene of the crash if possible, even if damage to the motor vehicle is not noticeable.
(b)
SF 94, Statement of Witness.
This form should be completed by any witness to the crash.
§ 102-34.295
To whom do we send crash reports?
Send crash reports as follows:
(a) If the motor vehicle is owned or commercially leased by your agency, follow your internal agency directives.
(b) If the motor vehicle is leased from GSA Fleet, report the crash to GSA in accordance with subpart 101-39.4 of this Title.

# Subpart H—Disposal of Motor Vehicles
§ 102-34.300
How do we dispose of a domestic fleet motor vehicle?
After meeting the replacement standards under subpart E of this part, you may dispose of a Government-owned domestic fleet motor vehicle. Detailed instructions for the transfer of an excess motor vehicle to another Federal agency can be found in part 102-36 of this subchapter B, information for the donation of surplus of motor vehicles can be found in part 102-37 of this subchapter B, information for the sale of motor vehicles can be found in part 102-38 of this subchapter B, and information on exchange/sale authority can be found in part 102-39 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-34.305
What forms do we use to transfer ownership when selling a motor vehicle?
Use the following forms to transfer ownership:
(a) SF 97, The United States Government Certificate to Obtain Title to a Motor Vehicle, if both of the following apply:
(1) The motor vehicle will be retitled by a State, Commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States or the District of Columbia; and
(2) The purchaser intends to operate the motor vehicle on highways.

# Note to § 102-34.305(
a

# )(2):
Do not use SF 97 if the Government-owned motor vehicle is either not designed or not legal for operation on highways. Examples are construction equipment, farm machinery, and certain military-design motor vehicles and motor vehicles that are damaged beyond repair in crashes and intended to be sold as salvage only. Instead, use an appropriate bill of sale or award document. Examples are Optional Form 16, Sales Slip—Sale of Government Personal Property, and SF 114C, Sale of Government Property-Bid and Award.
(b) SF 97 is optional for foreign fleet motor vehicles because foreign governments may require the use of other forms.

# Note to § 102-34.305:
The original SF 97 is printed on secure paper to identify readily any attempt to alter the form. The form is also pre-numbered to prevent duplicates. State motor vehicle agencies may reject certificates showing erasures or strikeovers.
§ 102-34.310
How do we distribute the completed Standard Form 97?
SF 97 is a 4-part set printed on continuous-feed paper. Distribute the form as follows:
(a) Original SF 97 to the purchaser or donee;
(b) One copy to the owning agency;
(c) One copy to the contracting officer making the sale or transfer of the motor vehicle; and
(d) One copy under owning agency directives.

# Subpart I—Motor Vehicle Fueling
§ 102-34.315
How do we obtain fuel for Government motor vehicles?
You may obtain fuel for Government motor vehicles by using:
(a) A Government-issued charge card;
(b) A Government agency fueling facility; or
(c) Personal funds and obtaining reimbursement from your agency, if permitted by your agency. You must use the method prescribed by GSA Fleet to obtain fuel for vehicles leased from GSA fleet.
§ 102-34.320
What Government-issued charge cards may I use to purchase fuel and motor vehicle related services?
(a) You may use a fleet charge card specifically issued for this purpose. These cards are designed to collect motor vehicle data at the time of purchase. Where appropriate, State sales and motor fuel taxes may be deducted
from fuel purchases by the fleet charge card services contractor before your agency is billed; otherwise you may need to request reimbursement from each State to which taxes were paid. The GSA contractor issued fleet charge card is the only Government-issued charge card that may be used for GSA Fleet motor vehicles. For further information on acquiring these fleet charge cards and their use, contact the: General Services Administration, ATTN: GSA SmartPay ® (QMB), 2200 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202.
(b) You may use a Government purchase card if you do not have a fleet charge card or if the use of such a Government purchase card is required by your agency mission. However, the Government purchase card does not collect motor vehicle data nor does it deduct State sales and motor fuel taxes.

# Note to § 102-34.320:
OMB Circular A-123, Appendix B, contains additional specific guidance on the management, issuance, and usage of Government charge cards. The Appendix B guidance consolidates and updates current Governmentwide charge card program requirements and guidance issued by the Office of Management and Budget, GSA, Department of the Treasury, and other Federal agencies. Appendix B provides a single document to incorporate changes, new guidance, or amendments to existing guidance, and establishes minimum requirements and suggested best practices for Government charge card programs that may be supplemented by individual agency policy procedures.
§ 102-34.325
What type of fuel do I use in Government motor vehicles?
(a) Use the minimum grade (octane rating) of fuel recommended by the motor vehicle manufacturer when fueling Government motor vehicles, unless a higher grade of fuel is all that is available locally.
(b) Use unleaded gasoline in all foreign fleet motor vehicles designed to operate on gasoline unless:
(1) Such use would be in conflict with country-to-country or multi-national logistics agreements; or
(2) Such gasoline is not available locally.
(c) You must use alternative fuels in alternative fuel motor vehicles to the fullest extent possible as directed by regulations issued by the Department of Energy implementing the Energy Policy Act and related Executive Orders.

# Subpart J—Federal Fleet Report
§ 102-34.330
What is the Federal Fleet Report?
The Federal Fleet Report (FFR) is an annual summary of Federal fleet statistics based upon fleet composition at the end of each fiscal year and vehicle use and cost during the fiscal year. The FFR is compiled by GSA from information submitted by Federal agencies. The FFR is designed to provide essential statistical data for worldwide Federal motor vehicle fleet operations. Review of the report assists Government agencies, including GSA, in evaluating the effectiveness of the operation and management of individual fleets to determine whether vehicles are being utilized properly and to identify high cost areas where fleet expenses can be reduced. The FFR is posted on GSA's Motor Vehicle Management Policy Internet Web site (
http://www.gsa.gov/vehiclepolicy
).
§ 102-34.335
How do I submit information to the General Services Administration (GSA) for the Federal Fleet Report (FFR)?
(a) Annually, agencies must submit to GSA the information needed to produce the FFR through the Federal Automotive Statistical Tool (FAST), an Internet-based reporting tool. To find out how to submit motor vehicle data to GSA through FAST, consult the instructions from your agency fleet manager and read the documentation at
http://fastweb.inel.gov/.
(b) Specific reporting categories, by agency, included in the FFR are—
(1) Inventory;
(2) Acquisitions;
(3) Operating costs;
(4) Miles traveled; and
(5) Fuel used.

# Note to § 102-34.335:
The FAST system is also used by agency Fleet Managers to provide the Department of Energy with information required by the Energy Policy Act and related Executive Orders. In addition, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requires agency Fleet Managers and budget officers to submit annual agency motor vehicle budgeting information to OMB through
FAST (see OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget).
§ 102-34.340
Do we need a fleet management information system?
Yes, you must have a fleet management information system at the department or agency level that —
(a) Identifies and collects accurate inventory, cost, and use data that covers the complete lifecycle of each motor vehicle (acquisition, operation, maintenance, and disposal); and
(b) Provides the information necessary to satisfy both internal and external reporting requirements, including:
(1) Cost per mile;
(2) Fuel costs for each motor vehicle; and
(3) Data required for FAST (see § 102-34.335).
§ 102-34.345
What records do we need to keep?
You are responsible for developing and keeping adequate accounting and reporting procedures for Government motor vehicles. These will ensure accurate recording of inventory, cost, and operational data needed to manage and control motor vehicles, and will satisfy reporting requirements. You must also comply with the General Records Schedules issued by the National Archives and Records Administration (
http://www.archives.gov
).

# Subpart K—Forms
§ 102-34.350
How do we obtain the forms prescribed in this part?
See § 102-2.135 of this chapter for how to obtain forms prescribed in this part.
Pt. 102-35

# PART 102-35—DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
Sec.
102-35.5
What is the scope of the General Services Administration's regulations on the disposal of personal property?
102-35.10
How are these regulations for the disposal of personal property organized?
102-35.15
What are the goals of GSA's personal property regulations?
102-35.20
What definitions apply to GSA's personal property regulations?
102-35.25
What management reports must we provide?
102-35.30
What actions must I take or am I authorized to take regardless of the property disposition method?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c).

# Source:
72 FR 10085, Mar. 7, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-35.5
What is the scope of the General Services Administration's regulations on the disposal of personal property?
The General Services Administration's personal property disposal regulations are contained in this part and in parts 102-36 through 102-42 of this subchapter B as well as in parts 101-42 and 101-45 of the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR)(41 CFR parts 101-42 and 101-45). With two exceptions, these regulations cover the disposal of personal property under the custody and control of executive agencies located in the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau. The exceptions to this coverage are part 102-39 of this subchapter B, which applies to the replacement of all property owned by executive agencies worldwide using the exchange/sale authority, and §§ 102-36.380 through 102-36.400, which apply to the disposal of excess property located in countries and areas not listed in this subpart, i.e., foreign excess personal property. The legislative and judicial branches are encouraged to follow these provisions for property in their custody and control.
§ 102-35.10
How are these regulations for the disposal of personal property organized?
The General Services Administration (GSA) has divided its regulations for the disposal of personal property into the following program areas:
(a) Disposition of excess personal property (part 102-36 of this subchapter B).
(b) Donation of surplus personal property (part 102-37 of this subchapter B).
(c) Sale of surplus personal property (part 102-38 of this subchapter B).
(d) Replacement of personal property pursuant to the exchange/sale authority (part 102-39 of this subchapter B).
(e) Utilization and disposition of personal property with special handling requirements (part 102-40 of this subchapter B).
(f) Disposition of seized, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, and unclaimed personal property (part 102-41 of this subchapter B).
(g) Utilization, donation, and disposal of foreign gifts and decorations (part 102-42 of this subchapter B).
[72 FR 10085, Mar. 7, 2007, as amended at 87 FR 6043, Feb. 3, 2022]
§ 102-35.15
What are the goals of GSA's personal property regulations?
The goals of GSA's personal property regulations are to:
(a) Improve the identification and reporting of excess personal property;
(b) Maximize the use of excess property as the first source of supply to minimize expenditures for the purchase of new property, when practicable;

# Note to § 102-35.15(
b

# ):
If there are competing requests among Federal agencies for excess property, preference will be given to agencies where the transfer will avoid a new Federal procurement. A transfer to an agency where the agency will provide the property to a non-Federal entity for the non-Federal entity's use will be secondary to Federal use.
(c) Achieve maximum public benefit from the use of Government property through the donation of surplus personal property to State and local public agencies and other eligible non-Federal recipients;
(d) Obtain the optimum monetary return to the Government for surplus personal property sold and personal property sold under the exchange/sale authority; and
(e) Reduce management and inventory costs by appropriate use of the abandonment/destruction authority to dispose of unneeded personal property that has no commercial value or for which the estimated cost of continued care and handling would exceed the estimated sales proceeds (see FMR §§ 102-36.305 through 102-36.330).
§ 102-35.20
What definitions apply to GSA's personal property regulations?
The following are definitions of, or cross-references to, some key terms that apply to GSA's personal property regulations in the FMR (CFR parts 102-36 through 102-42). Other personal property terms are defined in the sections or parts to which they primarily apply.
Accountable Personal Property
includes nonexpendable personal property whose expected useful life is two years or longer and whose acquisition value, as determined by the agency, warrants tracking in the agency's property records, including capitalized and sensitive personal property.
Accountability
means the ability to account for personal property by providing a complete audit trail for property transactions from receipt to final disposition.
Acquisition cost
means the original purchase price of an item.
Capitalized Personal Property
includes property that is entered on the agency's general ledger records as a major investment or asset. An agency must determine its capitalization thresholds as discussed in Financial Accounting Standard Advisory Board (FASAB) Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards No. 6 Accounting for Property, Plant and Equipment, Chapter 1, paragraph 13.
Control
means the ongoing function of maintaining physical oversight and surveillance of personal property throughout its complete life cycle using various property management tools and techniques taking into account the environment in which the property is located and its vulnerability to theft, waste, fraud, or abuse.
Excess personal property
(see § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B).
Exchange/sale
(see § 102-39.20 of this subchapter B).
Executive agency
(see § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B).
Federal agency
(see § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B).
Foreign gifts and decorations
(for the definition of relevant terms, see § 102-42.10 of this subchapter B).
Forfeited property
(see § 102-41.20 of this subchapter B).
Inventory
includes a formal listing of all accountable property items assigned to an agency, along with a formal process to verify the condition, location, and quantity of such items. This term may also be used as a verb to indicate the actions leading to the development of a listing. In this sense, an inventory must be conducted using an actual physical count, electronic means, and/or statistical methods.
National property management officer
means an official, designated in accordance with § 102-36.45(b) of this subchapter B, who is responsible for ensuring effective acquisition, use, and disposal of excess property within your agency.
Personal property
(see § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B).
Property management
means the system of acquiring, maintaining, using and disposing of the personal property of an organization or entity.
Seized property
means personal property that has been confiscated by a Federal agency, and whose care and handling will be the responsibility of that agency until final ownership is determined by the judicial process.
Sensitive Personal Property
includes all items, regardless of value, that require special control and accountability due to unusual rates of loss, theft or misuse, or due to national security or export control considerations. Such property includes weapons, ammunition, explosives, information technology equipment with memory capability, cameras, and communications equipment. These classifications do not preclude agencies from specifying additional personal property classifications to effectively manage their programs.
Surplus personal property
(see § 102-37.25 of this subchapter B).
Utilization
means the identification, reporting, and transfer of excess personal property among Federal agencies.
§ 102-35.25
What management reports must we provide?
(a) There are three reports that must be provided. The report summarizing the property provided to non-Federal recipients and the report summarizing exchange/sale transactions (see §§ 102-36.295 and 102-39.75 respectively of this subchapter B) must be provided every year (negative reports are required). In addition, if you conduct negotiated sales of surplus personal property valued over $5,000 in any year, you must report this transaction in accordance with § 102-38.115 (negative reports are not required for this report).
(b) The General Services Administration (GSA) may request other reports as authorized by 40 U.S.C. 506(a)(1)(A).
§ 102-35.30
What actions must I take or am I authorized to take regardless of the property disposition method?
Regardless of the disposition method used:
(a) You must maintain property in a safe, secure, and cost-effective manner until final disposition.
(b) You have authority to use the abandonment/ destruction provisions at any stage of the disposal process (see §§ 102-36.305 through 102-36.330 and § 102-38.70 of this subchapter B).
(c) You must implement policies and procedures to remove sensitive or classified information from property prior to disposal. Agency-affixed markings should be removed, if at all possible, prior to personal property permanently leaving your agency's control.
(d) Government-owned personal property may only be used as authorized by your agency. Title to Government-owned personal property cannot be transferred to a non-Federal entity unless through official procedures specifically authorized by law.
Pt. 102-36

# PART 102-36—DISPOSITION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-36.5
What is the governing authority for this part?
102-36.10
What does this part cover?
102-36.15
Who must comply with the provisions of this part?
102-36.20
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
102-36.25
How do we request a deviation from these requirements and who can approve it?
102-36.30
When is personal property excess?
102-36.35
What is the typical process for disposing of excess personal property?

# Definitions
102-36.40
What definitions apply to this part?

# Responsibility
102-36.45
What are our responsibilities in the management of excess personal property?
102-36.50
May we use a contractor to perform the functions of excess personal property disposal?
102-36.55
What is GSA's role in the disposition of excess personal property?

# Subpart B—Acquiring Excess Personal Property For Our Agency

# Acquiring Excess
102-36.60
Who is eligible to acquire excess personal property as authorized by the Property Act?
102-36.65
Why must we use excess personal property instead of buying new property?
102-36.70
What must we consider when acquiring excess personal property?
102-36.75
Do we pay for excess personal property we acquire from another federal agency under a transfer?
102-36.80
How much do we pay for excess personal property on a transfer with reimbursement?
102-36.85
Do we pay for personal property we acquire when it is disposed of by another agency under the exchange/sale authority, and how much do we pay?

# Screening of Excess
102-36.90
How do we find out what personal property is available as excess?
102-36.95
How long is excess personal property available for screening?
102-36.100
When does the screening period start for excess personal property?
102-36.105
Who is authorized to screen and where do we go to screen excess personal property on-site?
102-36.110
Do we need authorization to screen excess personal property?
102-36.115
What information must we include in the authorization form for non-federal persons to screen excess personal property?
102-36.120
What are our responsibilities in authorizing a non-federal individual to screen excess personal property?

# Processing Transfers
102-36.125
How do we process a Standard Form 122 (SF 122), Transfer Order Excess Personal Property, through GSA?
102-36.130
What are our responsibilities in processing transfer orders of excess personal property?
102-36.135
How much time do we have to pick up excess personal property that has been approved for transfer?
102-36.140
May we arrange to have the excess personal property shipped to its final destination?

# Direct Transfers
102-36.145
May we obtain excess personal property directly from another federal agency without GSA approval?

# Subpart C—Acquiring Excess Personal Property for Non-federal Recipients
102-36.150
For which non-federal activities may we acquire excess personal property?
102-36.155
What are our responsibilities when acquiring excess personal property for use by a non-federal recipient?
102-36.160
What additional information must we provide on the SF 122 when acquiring excess personal property for non-federal recipients?

# Non-appropriated Fund Activities
102-36.165
Do we retain title to excess personal property furnished to a non-appropriated fund activity within our agency?
102-36.170
May we transfer personal property owned by one of our non-appropriated fund activities?

# Contractors
102-36.175
Are there restrictions to acquiring excess personal property for use by our contractors?

# Cooperatives
102-36.180
Is there any limitation/condition to acquiring excess personal property for use by cooperatives?

# Project Grantees
102-36.185
What are the requirements for acquiring excess personal property for use by our grantees?
102-36.190
Must we always pay 25 percent of the original acquisition cost when furnishing excess personal property to project grantees?
102-36.195
What type of excess personal property may we furnish to our project grantees?
102-36.200
May we acquire excess personal property for cannibalization purposes by the grantee?
102-36.205
Is there a limit to how much excess personal property we may furnish to our grantees?

# Subpart D—Disposition of Excess Personal Property
102-36.210
Why must we report excess personal property to GSA?

# Reporting Excess Personal Property
102-36.215
How do we report excess personal property?
102-36.220
Must we report all excess personal property to GSA?
102-36.225
Must we report excess related personal property?
102-36.230
Where do we send the reports of excess personal property?
102-36.235
What information do we provide when reporting excess personal property?
102-36.240
What are the disposal condition codes?

# Disposing of Excess Personal Property
102-36.245
Are we accountable for the personal property that has been reported excess, and who is responsible for the care and handling costs?
102-36.250
Does GSA ever take physical custody of excess personal property?
102-36.255
What options do we have when unusual circumstances do not allow adequate time for disposal through GSA?
102-36.260
How do we promote the expeditious transfer of excess personal property?
102-36.265
What if there are competing requests for the same excess personal property?
102-36.270
What if a federal agency requests personal property that is undergoing donation screening or in the sales process?
102-36.275
May we dispose of excess personal property without GSA approval?
102-36.280
May we withdraw from the disposal process excess personal property that we have reported to GSA?

# Transfers With Reimbursement
102-36.285
May we charge for personal property transferred to another federal agency?
102-36.290
How much do we charge for excess personal property on a transfer with reimbursement?

# Report of Disposal Activity
102-36.295
Is there any reporting requirement on the disposition of excess personal property?
102-36.300
How do we report the furnishing of personal property to non-federal recipients?

# Abandonment/Destruction
102-36.305
May we abandon or destroy excess personal property without reporting it to GSA?
102-36.310
Who makes the determination to abandon or destroy excess personal property?
102-36.315
Are there any restrictions to the use of the abandonment/destruction authority?
102-36.320
May we transfer or donate excess personal property that has been determined appropriate for abandonment/destruction without GSA approval?
102-36.325
What must be done before the abandonment/destruction of excess personal property?
102-36.330
Are there occasions when public notice is not needed regarding abandonment/destruction of excess personal property?

# Subpart E—Personal Property Whose Disposal Requires Special Handling
102-36.335
Are there certain types of excess personal property that must be disposed of differently from normal disposal procedures?

# Aircraft and Aircraft Parts
102-36.340
What must we do when disposing of excess aircraft?
102-36.345
May we dispose of excess Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP)?
102-36.350
How do we identify a FSCAP?
102-36.355
What are the FSCAP Criticality Codes?
102-36.360
How do we dispose of aircraft parts that are life-limited but have no FSCAP designation?

# Canines, Law Enforcement
102-36.365
May we transfer or donate canines that have been used in the performance of law enforcement duties?

# Disaster Relief Property
102-36.370
Are there special requirements concerning the use of excess personal property for disaster relief?

# Firearms
102-36.375
May we dispose of excess firearms?

# Foreign Excess Personal Property
102-36.380
Who is responsible for disposing of foreign excess personal property?
102-36.385
What are our responsibilities in the disposal of foreign excess personal property?
102-36.390
How may we dispose of foreign excess personal property?
102-36.395
How may GSA assist us in disposing of foreign excess personal property?
102-36.400
Who pays for the transportation costs when foreign excess personal property is returned to the United States?

# Gifts
102-36.405
May we keep gifts given to us from the public?
102-36.410
How do we dispose of a gift in the form of money or intangible personal property?
102-36.415
How do we dispose of gifts other than intangible personal property?
102-36.420
How do we dispose of gifts from foreign governments or entities?

# Hazardous Personal Property
102-36.425
May we dispose of excess hazardous personal property?

# Munitions List Items/Commerce Control List Items (MLIs/CCLIs)
102-36.430
May we dispose of excess Munitions List Items (MLIs)/Commerce Control List Items (CCLIs)?
102-36.435
How do we identify Munitions List Items (MLIs)/Commerce Control List Items (CCLIs) requiring demilitarization?

# Printing Equipment and Supplies
102-36.440
Are there special procedures for reporting excess printing and binding equipment and supplies?

# Red Cross Property
102-36.445
Do we report excess personal property originally acquired from or through the American National Red Cross?

# Shelf-Life Items
102-36.450
Do we report excess shelf-life items?
102-36.455
How do we report excess shelf-life items?
102-36.460
Do we report excess medical shelf-life items held for national emergency purposes?
102-36.465
May we transfer or exchange excess medical shelf-life items with other Federal agencies?

# Vessels
102-36.470
What must we do when disposing of excess vessels?

# Subpart F—Miscellaneous Disposition
102-36.475
What is the authority for transfers under “Computers for Learning”?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c).

# Source:
65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-36.5
What is the governing authority for this part?
Section 121(c) of title 40, United States Code, authorizes the Administrator of General Services to prescribe regulations as the Administrator deems necessary to carry out their functions under subtitle I of title 40. Section 521 of title 40 authorizes the General Services Administration (GSA) to prescribe policies to promote the maximum use of excess Government personal property by executive agencies.
[71 FR 53571, Sept. 12, 2006, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-36.10
What does this part cover?
This part covers the acquisition, transfer, and disposal, by executive agencies, of excess personal property located in the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53571, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.15
Who must comply with the provisions of this part?
All executive agencies must comply with the provisions of this part. The legislative and judicial branches are encouraged to report and transfer excess personal property and fill their personal property requirements from excess in accordance with these provisions.
§ 102-36.20
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
Use of pronouns “we”, “you”, and their variants throughout this part refer to the agency.
§ 102-36.25
How do we request a deviation from these requirements and who can approve it?
See §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter to request a deviation from the requirements of this part.
§ 102-36.30
When is personal property excess?
Personal property is excess when it is no longer needed by the activities within your agency to carry out the functions of official programs, as determined by the agency head or designee.
§ 102-36.35
What is the typical process for disposing of excess personal property?
(a) You must ensure personal property not needed by your activity is offered for use elsewhere within your agency. If the property is no longer needed by any activity within your agency, your agency declares the property excess and reports it to GSA for possible transfer to eligible recipients, including federal agencies for direct use or for use by their contractors, project grantees, or cooperative agreement recipients. All executive agencies must, to the maximum extent practicable, fill requirements for personal property by using existing agency property or by obtaining excess property from other federal agencies in lieu of new procurements.
(b) If GSA determines that there are no federal requirements for your excess personal property, it becomes surplus property and is available for donation to state and local public agencies and other eligible non-federal activities. Title 40 of the United States Code requires that surplus personal property be distributed to eligible recipients by an agency established by each State for this purpose, the State Agency for Surplus Property.
(c) Surplus personal property not selected for donation is offered for sale to the public by competitive offerings such as sealed bid sales, spot bid sales, or auctions. You may conduct or contract for the sale of your surplus personal property, or have GSA or another executive agency conduct the sale on behalf of your agency in accordance with part 102-38 of this chapter. You must inform GSA at the time the property is reported as excess if you do not want GSA to conduct the sale for you.
(d) If a written determination is made that the property has no commercial value or the estimated cost of its continued care and handling would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale, you may dispose of the property by abandonment or destruction, or donate it to public bodies.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53571, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Definitions
§ 102-36.40
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Commerce Control List Items (CCLIs)
are dual use (commercial/military) items that are subject to export control by the Bureau of Export Administration, Department of Commerce. These items have been identified in the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 774) as export controlled for reasons of national security, crime control, technology transfer, and scarcity of materials.
Cooperative
means the organization or entity that has a cooperative agreement with a federal agency.
Cooperative agreement
means a legal instrument reflecting a relationship between a federal agency and a non-federal recipient, made in accordance with the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977 (31 U.S.C. 6301-6308), under any or all of the following circumstances:
(1) The purpose of the relationship is the transfer, between a federal agency and a non-federal entity, of money, property, services, or anything of value to accomplish a public purpose authorized by law, rather than by purchase, lease, or barter, for the direct benefit or use of the federal government.
(2) Substantial involvement is anticipated between the federal agency and the cooperative during the performance of the agreed upon activity.
(3) The cooperative is a state or local government entity or any person or organization authorized to receive federal assistance or procurement contracts.
Demilitarization
means, as defined by the Department of Defense, the act of destroying the military capabilities inherent in certain types of equipment or material. Such destruction may include deep sea dumping, mutilation, cutting, crushing, scrapping, melting, burning, or alteration so as to prevent
the further use of the item for its originally intended purpose.
Excess personal property
means any personal property under the control of any federal agency that is no longer required for that agency's needs, as determined by the agency head or designee.
Exchange/sale property
is property not excess to the needs of the holding agency but eligible for replacement, which is exchanged or sold under the provisions of part 102-39 of this chapter in order to apply the exchange allowance or proceeds of sale in whole or part payment for replacement with a similar item.
Executive agency
means any executive department or independent establishment in the executive branch of the Government, including any wholly owned government corporation.
Fair market value
means the best estimate of the gross sales proceeds if the property were to be sold in a public sale.
Federal agency
means any executive agency or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under the Architect's direction).
Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Part (FSCAP)
is any aircraft part, assembly, or installation containing a critical characteristic whose failure, malfunction, or absence could cause a catastrophic failure resulting in engine shut-down or loss or serious damage to the aircraft resulting in an unsafe condition.
Foreign excess personal property
is any U.S. owned excess personal property located outside the United States (U.S.), the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
Grant
means a type of assistance award and a legal instrument which permits a federal agency to transfer money, property, services or other things of value to a grantee when no substantial involvement is anticipated between the agency and the recipient during the performance of the contemplated activity.
GSAXcess
® is GSA's website for reporting, searching and selecting excess personal property. For information on using GSAXcess ®, access
http://www.gsaxcess.gov.
Hazardous personal property
means property that is deemed a hazardous material, chemical substance or mixture, or hazardous waste under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (HMTA) (49 U.S.C. 5101), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. 6901-6981), or the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (15 U.S.C. 2601-2609).
Holding agency
means the federal agency having accountability for, and generally possession of, the property involved.
Intangible personal property
means personal property in which the existence and value of the property is generally represented by a descriptive document rather than the property itself. Some examples are patents, patent rights, processes, techniques, inventions, copyrights, negotiable instruments, money orders, bonds, and shares of stock.
Life-limited aircraft part
is an aircraft part that has a finite service life expressed in either total operating hours, total cycles, and/or calendar time.
Line item
means a single line entry, on a reporting form or transfer order, for items of property of the same type having the same description, condition code, and unit cost.
Munitions List Items (MLIs)
are commodities (usually defense articles/defense services) listed in the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (22 CFR part 121), published by the U.S. Department of State.
Nonappropriated fund activity
means an activity or entity that is not funded by money appropriated from the general fund of the U.S. Treasury, such as post exchanges, ship stores, military officers' clubs, veterans' canteens, and similar activities. Such property is not federal property.
Personal property
means any property, except real property. For purposes of this part, the term excludes records of the federal government, and naval vessels of the following categories: battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines.
Project grant
means a grant made for a specific purpose and with a specific termination date.
Public agency
means any State, political subdivision thereof, including any unit of local government or economic development district; any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including instrumentalities created by compact or other agreement between States or political subdivisions; multijurisdictional substate districts established by or pursuant to State law; or any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community located on a State reservation.
Related personal property
means any personal property that is an integral part of real property. It is:
(1) Related to, designed for, or specifically adapted to the functional capacity of the real property and removal of this personal property would significantly diminish the economic value of the real property; or
(2) Determined by the Administrator of General Services to be related to the real property.
Salvage
means property that has value greater than its basic material content but for which repair or rehabilitation is clearly impractical and/or uneconomical.
Scrap
means property that has no value except for its basic material content.
Screening period
means the period in which excess and surplus personal property are made available for excess transfer or surplus donation to eligible recipients.
Shelf-life item
is any item that deteriorates over time or has unstable characteristics such that a storage period must be assigned to assure the item is issued within that period to provide satisfactory performance. Management of such items is governed by part 101-27, subpart 27.2, of this title and by DOD instructions, for executive agencies and DOD respectively.
Surplus personal property (surplus)
means excess personal property no longer required by the Federal agencies as determined by GSA.
Surplus release date
means the date when federal screening has been completed and the excess property becomes surplus.
Transfer with reimbursement
means a transfer of excess personal property between Federal agencies where the recipient is required to pay, i.e. reimburse the holding agency, for the property.
Unit cost
means the original acquisition cost of a single item of property.
United States
means all the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
Vessels
means ships, boats and craft designed for navigation in and on the water, propelled by oars or paddles, sail, or power.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53571, Sept. 12, 2006; 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]

# Responsibility
§ 102-36.45
What are our responsibilities in the management of excess personal property?
(a) Agency procurement policies should require consideration of excess personal property before authorizing procurement of new personal property.
(b) You are encouraged to designate national and regional property management officials to:
(1) Promote the use of available excess personal property to the maximum extent practicable by your agency.
(2) Review and approve the acquisition and disposal of excess personal property.
(3) Ensure that any agency implementing procedures comply with this part.
(c) When acquiring excess personal property, you must:
(1) Limit the quantity acquired to that which is needed to adequately perform the function necessary to support the mission of your agency.
(2) Establish controls over the processing of excess personal property transfer orders.
(3) Facilitate the timely pickup of acquired excess personal property from the holding agency.
(d) While excess personal property you have acquired is in your custody, or the custody of your non-Federal recipients and the government retains title, you and/or the non-Federal recipient must do the following:
(1) Establish and maintain a system for property accountability.
(2) Protect the property against hazards including but not limited to fire, theft, vandalism, and weather.
(3) Perform the care and handling of personal property. “Care and handling” includes completing, repairing, converting, rehabilitating, operating, preserving, protecting, insuring, packing, storing, handling, conserving, and transporting excess and surplus personal property, and destroying or rendering innocuous property which is dangerous to public health or safety.
(4) Maintain appropriate inventory levels as set forth in part 101-27 of this title.
(5) Continuously monitor the personal property under your control to assure maximum use, and develop and maintain a system to prevent and detect nonuse, improper use, unauthorized disposal, or destruction of personal property.
(e) When you no longer need personal property to carry out the mission of your program, you must:
(1) Offer the property for reassignment to other activities within your agency.
(2) Promptly report excess personal property to GSA when it is no longer needed by any activity within your agency for further reuse by eligible recipients.
(3) Continue the care and handling of excess personal property while it goes through the disposal process.
(4) Facilitate the timely transfer of excess personal property to other federal agencies or authorized eligible recipients.
(5) Provide reasonable access to authorized personnel for inspection and removal of excess personal property.
(6) Ensure that final disposition complies with applicable environmental, health, safety, and national security regulations.
§ 102-36.50
May we use a contractor to perform the functions of excess personal property disposal?
Yes, you may use service contracts to perform disposal functions that are not inherently governmental, such as warehousing or custodial duties. You are responsible for ensuring that the contractor conforms with the requirements of Title 40 of the United States Code and the Federal Management Regulation (41 CFR chapter 102), and any other applicable statutes and regulations when performing these functions.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53571, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.55
What is GSA's role in the disposition of excess personal property?
In addition to developing and issuing regulations for the management of excess personal property, GSA:
(a) Screens and offers available excess personal property to Federal agencies and eligible non-federal recipients.
(b) Approves and processes transfers of excess personal property to eligible activities.
(c) Determines the amount of reimbursement for transfers of excess personal property when appropriate.
(d) Conducts sales of surplus and exchange/sale personal property when requested by an agency.
(e) Maintains an automated system, GSAXcess ®, to facilitate the reporting and transferring of excess personal property.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53571, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Subpart B—Acquiring Excess Personal Property For Our Agency

# Acquiring Excess
§ 102-36.60
Who is eligible to acquire excess personal property as authorized by the Property Act?
The following are eligible to acquire excess personal property:
(a) Federal agencies (for their own use or use by their authorized contractors, cooperatives, and project grantees).
(b) The Senate.
(c) The House of Representatives.
(d) The Architect of the Capitol and any activities under the Architect's direction.
(e) The DC Government.
(f) Mixed-ownership government corporations as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-36.65
Why must we use excess personal property instead of buying new property?
Using excess personal property to the maximum extent practicable maximizes the return on government dollars spent and minimizes expenditures for new procurement. Before purchasing new property, check with the appropriate regional GSA Personal Property Management office or access GSAXcess ® for any available excess personal property that may be suitable for your needs. You must use excess personal property unless it would cause serious hardship, be impractical, or impair your operations.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.70
What must we consider when acquiring excess personal property?
Consider the following when acquiring excess personal property:
(a) There must be an authorized requirement.
(b) The cost of acquiring and maintaining the excess personal property (including packing, shipping, pickup, and necessary repairs) does not exceed the cost of purchasing and maintaining new material.
(c) The sources of spare parts or repair/maintenance services to support the acquired item are readily accessible.
(d) The supply of excess parts acquired must not exceed the life expectancy of the equipment supported.
(e) The excess personal property will fulfill the required need with reasonable certainty without sacrificing mission or schedule.
(f) You must not acquire excess personal property with the intent to sell or trade for other assets.
§ 102-36.75
Do we pay for excess personal property we acquire from another federal agency under a transfer?
(a) No, except for the situations listed in paragraph (b) of this section, you do not pay for the property. However, you are responsible for shipping and transportation costs. Where applicable, you may also be required to pay packing, loading, and any costs directly related to the dismantling of the property when required for the purpose of transporting the property.
(b) You may be required to reimburse the holding agency for excess personal property transferred to you (i.e., transfer with reimbursement) when:
(1) Reimbursement is directed by GSA.
(2) The property was originally acquired with funds not appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury or appropriated therefrom but by law reimbursable from assessment, tax, or other revenue and the holding agency requests reimbursement. It is executive branch policy that working capital fund property shall be transferred without reimbursement.
(3) The property was acquired with appropriated funds, but reimbursement is required or authorized by law.
(4) You or the holding agency is the U.S. Postal Service (USPS).
(5) You are acquiring excess personal property for use by a project grantee that is a public agency or a nonprofit organization and exempt from taxation under 26 U.S.C. 501.
(6) You or the holding agency is the DC Government.
(7) You or the holding agency is a wholly owned or mixed-ownership government corporation as defined in the Government Corporation Control Act (31 U.S.C. 9101-9110).
§ 102-36.80
How much do we pay for excess personal property on a transfer with reimbursement?
(a) You may be required to reimburse the holding agency the fair market value when the transfer involves any of the conditions in § 102-36.75(b)(1) through (b)(4).
(b) When acquiring excess personal property for your project grantees (§ 102-36.75(b)(5)), you are required to deposit into the miscellaneous receipts fund of the U.S. Treasury an amount equal to 25 percent of the original acquisition cost of the property, except for transfers under the conditions cited in § 102-36.190.
(c) When you or the holding agency is the DC Government or a wholly owned or mixed-ownership Government corporation (§ 102-36.75(b)(6) or (b)(7)), you are required to reimburse the holding
agency using fair value reimbursement. Fair value reimbursement is 20 percent of the original acquisition cost for new or unused property (i.e., condition code 1), and zero percent for other personal property. Where circumstances warrant, a higher fair value may be used if the agencies concerned agree. Due to special circumstances or the unusual nature of the property, the holding agency may use other criteria for establishing fair value if approved or directed by GSA. You must refer any disagreements to the appropriate regional GSA Personal Property Management office.
§ 102-36.85
Do we pay for personal property we acquire when it is disposed of by another agency under the exchange/sale authority, and how much do we pay?
Yes, you must pay for personal property disposed of under the exchange/sale authority, in the amount required by the holding agency. The amount of reimbursement is normally the fair market value.

# Screening of Excess
§ 102-36.90
How do we find out what personal property is available as excess?
You may use the following methods to find out what excess personal property is available:
(a) Check GSAXcess ®, GSA's website for searching and selecting excess personal property. For information on GSAXcess ®, access
http://www.gsaxcess.gov.
(b) Contact or submit want lists to regional GSA Personal Property Management offices.
(c) Check any available holding agency websites.
(d) Conduct on-site screening at various federal facilities.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.95
How long is excess personal property available for screening?
The screening period for excess personal property is normally 21 calendar days. GSA may extend or shorten the screening period in coordination with the holding agency. For screening timeframes for government property in the possession of contractors see the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 45).
§ 102-36.100
When does the screening period start for excess personal property?
Screening starts when GSA receives the report of excess personal property (see § 102-36.230).
§ 102-36.105
Who is authorized to screen and where do we go to screen excess personal property on-site?
You may authorize your agency employees, contractors, or non-federal recipients that you sponsor to screen excess personal property. You may visit Defense Reutilization and Marketing Offices (DRMOs) and DOD contractor facilities to screen excess personal property generated by the Department of Defense. You may also inspect excess personal property at various civilian agency facilities throughout the United States.
§ 102-36.110
Do we need authorization to screen excess personal property?
(a) Yes, when entering a federal facility, federal agency employees must present a valid Federal ID. Non-federal individuals will need proof of authorization from their sponsoring federal agency in addition to a valid picture identification.
(b) Entry on some federal and contractor facilities may require special authorization from that facility. Persons wishing to screen excess personal property on such a facility must obtain approval from that agency. Contact your regional GSA Personal Property Management office for locations and accessibility.
§ 102-36.115
What information must we include in the authorization form for non-federal persons to screen excess personal property?
(a) For non-federal persons to screen excess personal property, you must provide on the authorization form:
(1) The individual's name and the organization they represent;
(2) The period of time and location(s) in which screening will be conducted; and
(3) The number and completion date of the applicable contract, cooperative agreement, or grant.
(b) An authorized official of your agency must sign the authorization form.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-36.120
What are our responsibilities in authorizing a non-federal individual to screen excess personal property?
You must do the following:
(a) Ensure that the non-federal screener certifies that any and all property requested will be used for authorized official purpose(s).
(b) Maintain a record of the authorized screeners under your authority, to include names, addresses and telephone numbers, and any additional identifying information such as driver's license or social security numbers.
(c) Retrieve any expired or invalid screener's authorization forms.

# Processing Transfers
§ 102-36.125
How do we process a Standard Form 122 (SF 122), Transfer Order Excess Personal Property, through GSA?
(a) You must first contact the appropriate regional GSA Personal Property Management office to assure the property is available to you. Submit your request on a SF 122, Transfer Order Excess Personal Property, to the region in which the property is located. For the types of property listed in the table in paragraph (b) of this section, submit the SF 122 to the corresponding GSA regions. You may submit the SF 122 manually or transmit the required information by electronic media (GSAXcess ®) or any other transfer form specified and approved by GSA.
(b) For the following types of property, you must submit the SF 122 to the corresponding GSA regions:
Type of property
GSA region
Location
Aircraft
9 FBP
San Francisco, CA 94102.
Firearms
7 FP-8
Denver, CO 80225.
Foreign Gifts
FBP
Washington, DC 20406.
Forfeited Property
3 FP
Washington, DC 20407.
Standard Forms
7 FMP
Ft. Worth, TX 76102.
Vessels, civilian
4 FD
Atlanta, GA 30365.
Vessels, DOD
3 FPD
Philadelphia, PA 19107.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000; 65 FR 33889, May 25, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.130
What are our responsibilities in processing transfer orders of excess personal property?
Whether the excess is for your use or for use by a non-federal recipient that you sponsor, you must:
(a) Ensure that only authorized federal officials of your agency sign the SF 122 prior to submission to GSA for approval.
(b) Ensure that excess personal property approved for transfer is used for authorized official purpose(s).
(c) Advise GSA of names of agency officials that are authorized to approve SF 122s, and notify GSA of any changes in signatory authority.
§ 102-36.135
How much time do we have to pick up excess personal property that has been approved for transfer?
Normally, you have 15 calendar days from the date of GSA allocation to pick up the excess personal property for transfer, and you are responsible for scheduling and coordinating the property removal with the holding agency. If additional removal time is required, you are responsible for requesting such additional removal time.
[74 FR 41060, Aug. 14, 2009]
§ 102-36.140
May we arrange to have the excess personal property shipped to its final destination?
Yes, when the holding agency agrees to provide assistance in preparing the property for shipping. You may be required to pay the holding agency any direct costs in preparing the property for shipment. You must provide shipping instructions and the appropriate fund code for billing purposes on the SF 122.

# Direct Transfers
§ 102-36.145
May we obtain excess personal property directly from another Federal agency without GSA approval?
Yes, but only under the following situations:
(a) You may obtain excess personal property that has not yet been reported to GSA, provided the total acquisition cost of the excess property does not exceed $10,000 per line item. You must ensure that a SF 122 is completed for the direct transfer and that an authorized official of your agency signs the SF 122. You must provide a copy of the SF 122 to the appropriate regional GSA office within 10 workdays from the date of the transaction.
(b) You may obtain excess personal property exceeding the $10,000 per line item limitation, provided you first contact the appropriate regional GSA Personal Property Management office for verbal approval of a prearranged transfer. You must annotate the SF 122 with the name of the GSA approving official and the date of the verbal approval, and provide a copy of the SF 122 to GSA within 10 workdays from the date of transaction.
(c) You are subject to the requirement to pay reimbursement for the excess personal property under a direct transfer when any of the conditions in § 102-36.75(b) applies.
(d) You may obtain excess personal property directly from another federal agency without GSA approval when that federal agency has statutory authority to dispose of such excess personal property and you are an eligible recipient.

# Subpart C—Acquiring Excess Personal Property for Non-Federal Recipients
§ 102-36.150
For which non-federal activities may we acquire excess personal property?
Under the Property Act you may acquire and furnish excess personal property for use by your non-appropriated fund activities, contractors, cooperatives, and project grantees. You may acquire and furnish excess personal property for use by other eligible recipients only when you have specific statutory authority to do so.
§ 102-36.155
What are our responsibilities when acquiring excess personal property for use by a non-federal recipient?
When acquiring excess personal property for use by a non-federal recipient, your authorized agency official must:
(a) Ensure the use of excess personal property by the non-federal recipient is authorized and complies with applicable federal regulations and agency guidelines.
(b) Determine that the use of excess personal property will reduce the costs to the government and/or that it is in the government's best interest to furnish excess personal property.
(c) Review and approve transfer documents for excess personal property as the sponsoring Federal agency.
(d) Ensure the non-federal recipient is aware of their obligations under the FMR and your agency regulations regarding the management of excess personal property.
(e) Ensure the non-federal recipient does not stockpile the property but places the property into use within a reasonable period of time, and has a system to prevent nonuse, improper use, or unauthorized disposal or destruction of excess personal property furnished.
(f) Establish provisions and procedures for property accountability and disposition in situations when the government retains title.
(g) Report annually to GSA excess personal property furnished to non-federal recipients during the year (see § 102-36.295).
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-36.160
What additional information must we provide on the SF 122 when acquiring excess personal property for non-federal recipients?
Annotate on the SF 122, the name of the non-federal recipient and the contract, grant or agreement number, when applicable, and the scheduled completion/expiration date of the contract, grant or agreement. If the remaining time prior to the expiration date is less than 60 calendar days, you must certify that the contract, grant
or agreement will be extended or renewed or provide other written justification for the transfer.

# Non-appropriated Fund Activities
§ 102-36.165
Do we retain title to excess personal property furnished to a non-appropriated fund activity within our agency?
Yes, title to excess personal property furnished to a non-appropriated fund activity remains with the Federal Government and you are accountable for establishing controls over the use of such excess property in accordance with § 102-36.45(d). When such property is no longer required by the non-appropriated fund activity, you must reuse or dispose of the property in accordance with this part.
§ 102-36.170
May we transfer personal property owned by one of our non-appropriated fund activities?
Property purchased by a non-appropriated fund activity is not federal property. A non-appropriated fund activity has the option of making its privately owned personal property available for transfer to a federal agency, usually with reimbursement. If such reimbursable personal property is not transferred to another federal agency, it may be offered for sale. Such property is not available for donation.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 33778, May 25, 2000]

# Contractors
§ 102-36.175
Are there restrictions to acquiring excess personal property for use by our contractors?
Yes, you may acquire and furnish excess personal property for use by your contractors subject to the criteria and restrictions in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 45). When such property is no longer needed by your contractors or your agency, you must dispose of the excess personal property in accordance with the provisions of this part.

# Cooperatives
§ 102-36.180
Is there any limitation/condition to acquiring excess personal property for use by cooperatives?
Yes, you must limit the total dollar amount of property transfers (in terms of original acquisition cost) to the dollar value of the cooperative agreement. For any transfers in excess of such amount, you must ensure that an official of your agency at a level higher than the officer administering the agreement approves the transfer. The federal government retains title to such property, except when provided by specific statutory authority.

# Project Grantees
§ 102-36.185
What are the requirements for acquiring excess personal property for use by our grantees?
You may furnish excess personal property for use by your grantees only when:
(a) The grantee holds a federally sponsored project grant;
(b) The grantee is a public agency or a nonprofit tax-exempt organization under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501);
(c) The property is for use in connection with the grant; and
(d) You pay 25 percent of the original acquisition cost of the excess personal property, such funds to be deposited into the miscellaneous receipts fund of the U.S. Treasury. Exceptions to paying this 25 percent are provided in § 102-36.190. Title to property vests in the grantee when your agency pays 25 percent of the original acquisition cost.
§ 102-36.190
Must we always pay 25 percent of the original acquisition cost when furnishing excess personal property to project grantees?
No, you may acquire excess personal property for use by a project grantee without paying the 25 percent fee when any of the following conditions apply:
(a) The personal property was originally acquired from excess sources by your agency and has been placed into official use by your agency for at least one year. The federal government retains title to such property.
(b) The property is furnished under section 203 of the Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 580a) through the U.S. Forest Service in connection with cooperative state forest fire control programs. The federal government retains title to such property.
(c) The property is furnished by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to state or county extension services or agricultural research cooperatives under 40 U.S.C. 483(d)(2)(E). The federal government retains title to such property.
(d) The property is not needed for donation under part 102-37 of this chapter, and is transferred under section 608 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2358). Title to such property transfers to the grantee. (You need not wait until after the donation screening period when furnishing excess personal property to recipients under the Agency for International Development (AID) Development Loan Program.)
(e) The property is scientific equipment transferred under section 11(e) of the National Science Foundation (NSF) Act of 1950, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1870(e)). GSA will limit such transfers to property within Federal Supply Classification (FSC) groups 12, 14, 43, 48, 58, 59, 65, 66, 67, 68 and 70. GSA may approve transfers without reimbursement for property under other FSC groups when NSF certifies the item is a component of or related to a piece of scientific equipment or is a difficult-to-acquire item needed for scientific research. Regardless of FSC, GSA will not approve transfers of common-use or general-purpose items without reimbursement. Title to such property transfers to the grantee.
(f) The property is furnished in connection with grants to Indian tribes, as defined in section 3(c) of the Indian Financing Act (24 U.S.C. 1452(c)). Title passage is determined under the authorities of the administering agency.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.195
What type of excess personal property may we furnish to our project grantees?
You may furnish to your project grantees any property, except for consumable items, determined to be necessary and usable for the purpose of the grant. Consumable items are generally not transferable to project grantees. GSA may approve transfers of excess consumable items when adequate justification for the transfer accompanies such requests. For the purpose of this section, “consumable items” are items which are intended for one-time use and are actually consumed in that one time; e.g., drugs, medicines, surgical dressings, cleaning and preserving materials, and fuels.
§ 102-36.200
May we acquire excess personal property for cannibalization purposes by the grantees?
Yes, subject to GSA approval, you may acquire excess personal property for cannibalization purposes. You may be required to provide a supporting statement that indicates disassembly of the item for secondary use has greater benefit than utilization of the item in its existing form and cost savings to the government will result.
§ 102-36.205
Is there a limit to how much excess personal property we may furnish to our grantees?
Yes, you must monitor transfers of excess personal property so the total dollar amount of property transferred (in original acquisition cost) does not exceed the dollar value of the grant. Any transfers above the grant amount must be approved by an official at an administrative level higher than the officer administering the grant.

# Subpart D—Disposition of Excess Personal Property
§ 102-36.210
Why must we report excess personal property to GSA?
You must report excess personal property to promote reuse by the government to enable federal agencies to benefit from the continued use of property already paid for with taxpayers' money, thus minimizing new procurement costs. Reporting excess personal property to GSA helps assure that the
information on available excess personal property is accessible and disseminated to the widest range of reuse customers.

# Reporting Excess Personal Property
§ 102-36.215
How do we report excess personal property?
Report excess personal property as follows:
(a) Electronically submit the data elements required on the Standard Form 120 (SF 120), Report of Excess Personal Property, in a format specified and approved by GSA; or
(b) Submit a paper SF 120 to the regional GSA Personal Property Management office.
§ 102-36.220
Must we report all excess personal property to GSA?
(a) Generally yes, regardless of the condition code, except as authorized in § 102-36.145 for direct transfers or as exempted in paragraph (b) of this section. Report all excess personal property, including excess personal property to which the government holds title but is in the custody of your contractors, cooperatives, or project grantees.
(b) You are not required to report the following types of excess personal property to GSA for screening:
(1) Property determined appropriate for abandonment/destruction (see § 102-36.305).
(2) Non-appropriated fund property (see § 102-36.165).
(3) Foreign excess personal property (see § 102-36.380).
(4) Scrap, except aircraft in scrap condition.
(5) Perishables, defined for the purposes of this section as any personal property subject to spoilage or decay.
(6) Trading stamps and bonus goods.
(7) Hazardous waste.
(8) Controlled substances.
(9) Nuclear Regulatory Commission-controlled materials.
(10) Property dangerous to public health and safety.
(11) Classified items or property determined to be sensitive for reasons of national security.
(c) Refer to part 101-42 of this title for additional guidance on the disposition of classes of property under paragraphs (b)(7) through (b)(11) of this section.
§ 102-36.225
Must we report excess related personal property?
Yes, you must report excess related personal property to the Office of Real Property, GSA, in accordance with part 102-75 of this chapter.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.230
Where do we send the reports of excess personal property?
(a) You must direct electronic submissions of excess personal property to GSAXcess ® maintained by the Property Management Division (FBP), GSA, Washington, DC 20406.
(b) For paper submissions, you must send the SF 120 to the regional GSA Personal Property Management office for the region in which the property is located. For the categories of property listed in § 102-36.125(b), forward the SF 120 to the corresponding regions.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.235
What information do we provide when reporting excess personal property?
(a) You must provide the following data on excess personal property:
(1) The reporting agency and the property location.
(2) A report number (6-digit activity address code and 4-digit Julian date).
(3) 4-digit Federal Supply Class (use National Stock Number whenever available).
(4) Description of item, in sufficient detail.
(5) Quantity and unit of issue.
(6) Disposal Condition Code (see § 102-36.240).
(7) Original acquisition cost per unit and total cost (use estimate if original cost not available).
(8) Manufacturer, date of manufacture, part and serial number, when required by GSA.
(b) In addition, provide the following information on your report of excess, when applicable:
(1) Major parts/components that are missing.
(2) If repairs are needed, the type of repairs.
(3) Special requirements for handling, storage, or transportation.
(4) The required date of removal due to moving or space restrictions.
(5) If reimbursement is required, the authority under which the reimbursement is requested, the amount of reimbursement and the appropriate fund code to which money is to be deposited.
(6) If you will conduct the sale of personal property that is not transferred or donated.
§ 102-36.240
What are the disposal condition codes?
The disposal condition codes are contained in the following table:
Disposal condition code
Definition
1
New. Property which is in new condition or unused condition and can be used immediately without modifications or repairs.
4
Usable. Property which shows some wear, but can be used without significant repair.
7
Repairable. Property which is unusable in its current condition but can be economically repaired.
X
Salvage. Property which has value in excess of its basic material content, but repair or rehabilitation is impractical and/or uneconomical.
S
Scrap. Property which has no value except for its basic material content.

# Disposing of Excess Personal Property
§ 102-36.245
Are we accountable for the personal property that has been reported excess, and who is responsible for the care and handling costs?
Yes, you are accountable for the excess personal property until the time it is picked up by the designated recipient or its agent. You are responsible for all care and handling charges while the excess personal property is going through the screening and disposal process.
§ 102-36.250
Does GSA ever take physical custody of excess personal property?
Generally you retain physical custody of the excess personal property prior to its final disposition. Very rarely GSA may consider accepting physical custody of excess personal property. Under special circumstances, GSA may take custody or may direct the transfer of partial or total custody to other executive agencies, with their consent.
§ 102-36.255
What options do we have when unusual circumstances do not allow adequate time for disposal through GSA?
Contact your regional GSA Personal Property Management office for any existing interagency agreements that would allow you to turn in excess personal property to a federal facility. You are responsible for any turn in costs and all costs related to transporting the excess personal property to these facilities.
§ 102-36.260
How do we promote the expeditious transfer of excess personal property?
For expeditious transfer of excess personal property you should:
(a) Provide complete and accurate property descriptions and condition codes on the report of excess to facilitate the selection of usable property by potential users.
(b) Ensure that any available operating manual, parts list, diagram, maintenance log, or other instructional publication is made available with the property at the time of transfer.
(c) Advise the designated recipient of any special requirements for dismantling, shipping/transportation.
(d) When the excess personal property is located at a facility due to be closed, provide advance notice of the scheduled date of closing, and ensure there is sufficient time for screening and removal of property.
§ 102-36.265
What if there are competing requests for the same excess personal property?
(a) GSA will generally approve transfers on a first-come, first-served basis. When more than one federal agency requests the same item, and the quantity available is not sufficient to meet the demand of all interested agencies, GSA will consider factors such as national defense requirements, emergency needs, avoiding the necessity of a new
procurement, energy conservation, transportation costs, and retention of title in the government. GSA will normally give preference to the agency that will retain title in the Government.
(b) Requests for property for the purpose of cannibalization will normally be subordinate to requests for use of the property in its existing form.
§ 102-36.270
What if a federal agency requests personal property that is undergoing donation screening or in the sales process?
Prior to final disposition, GSA will consider requests from authorized federal activities for excess personal property undergoing donation screening or in the sales process. Federal transfers may be authorized prior to removal of the property under a donation or sales action.
§ 102-36.275
May we dispose of excess personal property without GSA approval?
No, you may not dispose of excess personal property without GSA approval except under the following limited situations:
(a) You may transfer to another federal agency excess personal property that has not yet been reported to GSA, under direct transfer procedures contained in § 102-36.145.
(b) You may dispose of excess personal property that is not required to be reported to GSA (see § 102-36.220(b)).
(c) You may dispose of excess personal property without going through GSA when such disposal is authorized by law.
§ 102-36.280
May we withdraw from the disposal process excess personal property that we have reported to GSA?
Yes, you may withdraw excess personal property from the disposal process, but only with the approval of GSA and to satisfy an internal agency requirement. Property that has been approved for transfer or donation or offered for sale by GSA may be returned to your control with proper justification.

# Transfers With Reimbursement
§ 102-36.285
May we charge for personal property transferred to another federal agency?
(a) When any one of the following conditions applies, you may require and retain reimbursement for the excess personal property from the recipient:
(1) Your agency has the statutory authority to require and retain reimbursement for the property.
(2) You are transferring the property under the exchange/sale authority.
(3) You had originally acquired the property with funds not appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury or appropriated therefrom but by law reimbursable from assessment, tax, or other revenue. It is current executive branch policy that working capital fund property shall be transferred without reimbursement.
(4) You or the recipient is the U.S. Postal Service.
(5) You or the recipient is the DC Government.
(6) You or the recipient is a wholly owned or mixed-ownership government corporation.
(b) You may charge for direct costs you incurred incident to the transfer, such as packing, loading and shipping of the property. The recipient is responsible for such charges unless you waive the amount involved.
(c) You may not charge for overhead or administrative expenses or the costs for care and handling of the property pending disposition.
§ 102-36.290
How much do we charge for excess personal property on a transfer with reimbursement?
(a) You may require reimbursement in an amount up to the fair market value of the property when the transfer involves property meeting conditions in § 102-36.285(a)(1) through (a)(4).
(b) When you or the recipient is the DC Government or a wholly owned or mixed-ownership Government corporation (§ 102-36.285(a)(5) and (a)(6)), you may only require fair value reimbursement. Fair value reimbursement is 20 percent of the original acquisition cost for new or unused property (i.e., condition code 1), and zero percent for other personal property. A higher fair value
may be used if you and the recipient agency agree. Due to special circumstances or the nature of the property, you may use other criteria for establishing fair value if approved or directed by GSA. You must refer any disagreements to the appropriate regional GSA Personal Property Management office.

# Report of Disposal Activity
§ 102-36.295
Is there any reporting requirement on the disposition of excess personal property?
Yes, you must report annually to GSA personal property furnished in any manner in that year to any non-federal recipients, with respect to property obtained as excess or as property determined to be no longer required for the purposes of the appropriation from which it was purchased.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.300
How do we report the furnishing of personal property to non-federal recipients?
(a) Submit your annual report of personal property furnished to non-federal recipients, in letter form, to GSA, Office of Travel, Transportation, and Asset Management (MT), 1800 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20405, within 90 calendar days after the close of each fiscal year. The report must cover personal property disposed during the fiscal year in all areas within the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands. Negative reports are required.
(b) The report (interagency report control number 0154—GSA—AN) must reference this part and contain the following:
(1) Names of the non-federal recipients.
(2) Status of the recipients (contractor, cooperative, project grantee, etc.).
(3) Total original acquisition cost of excess personal property furnished to each type of recipient, by type of property (two-digit FSC groups).
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Abandonment/Destruction
§ 102-36.305
May we abandon or destroy excess personal property without reporting it to GSA?
Yes, you may abandon or destroy excess personal property when you have made a written determination that the property has no commercial value or the estimated cost of its continued care and handling would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale. An item has no commercial value when it has neither utility nor monetary value (either as an item or as scrap).
§ 102-36.310
Who makes the determination to abandon or destroy excess personal property?
To abandon or destroy excess personal property, an authorized official of your agency makes a written finding that must be approved by a reviewing official who is not directly accountable for the property.
§ 102-36.315
Are there any restrictions to the use of the abandonment/destruction authority?
Yes, the following restrictions apply:
(a) You must not abandon or destroy property in a manner which is detrimental or dangerous to public health or safety. Additional guidelines for the abandonment/destruction of hazardous materials are prescribed in part 101-42 of this title.
(b) If you become aware of an interest from an entity in purchasing the property, you must implement sales procedures in lieu of abandonment/destruction.
§ 102-36.320
May we transfer or donate excess personal property that has been determined appropriate for abandonment/destruction without GSA approval?
In lieu of abandonment/destruction, you may donate such excess personal property only to a public body without going through GSA. A public body is any department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality
of a state or local government; any Indian tribe; or any agency of the federal government. If you become aware of an interest from an eligible non-profit organization (see part 102-37 of this chapter) that is not a public body in acquiring the property, you must contact the regional GSA Personal Property Management office and implement donation procedures in accordance with part 102-37 of this chapter.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.325
What must be done before the abandonment/destruction of excess personal property?
Except as provided in § 102-36.330, you must provide public notice of intent to abandon or destroy excess personal property, in a format and timeframe specified by your agency regulations (such as publishing a notice in a local newspaper, posting of signs in common use facilities available to the public, or providing bulletins on your website through the internet). You must also include in the notice an offer to sell in accordance with part 102-38 of this chapter.
§ 102-36.330
Are there occasions when public notice is not needed regarding abandonment/destruction of excess personal property?
Yes, you are not required to provide public notice when:
(a) The value of the property is so little or the cost of its care and handling, pending abandonment/destruction, is so great that its retention for advertising for sale, even as scrap, is clearly not economical;
(b) Abandonment or destruction is required because of health, safety, or security reasons; or
(c) When the original acquisition cost of the item (estimated if unknown) is less than $500.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 34983, June 1, 2000]

# Subpart E—Personal Property Whose Disposal Requires Special Handling
§ 102-36.335
Are there certain types of excess personal property that must be disposed of differently from normal disposal procedures?
Yes, you must comply with the additional provisions in this subpart when disposing of the types of personal property listed in this subpart.

# Aircraft and Aircraft Parts
§ 102-36.340
What must we do when disposing of excess aircraft?
(a) You must report to GSA all excess aircraft, regardless of condition or dollar value, and provide the following information on the SF 120:
(1) Manufacturer, date of manufacture, model, serial number.
(2) Major components missing from the aircraft, such as engines, electronics.
(3) Whether or not the:
(i) Aircraft is operational;
(ii) Data plate is available;
(iii) Historical and maintenance records are available;
(iv) Aircraft has been previously certificated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and/or has been maintained to FAA airworthiness standards;
(v) Aircraft was previously used for non-flight purposes (i.e., ground training or static display), and has been subjected to extensive disassembly and re-assembly procedures for ground training, or repeated burning for fire-fighting training purposes.
(4) For military aircraft, indicate Category A, B, or C as designated by the Department of Defense (DOD), as follows:
Category of aircraft
Description
A
Aircraft authorized for sale and exchange for commercial use.
B
Aircraft previously used for ground instruction and/or static display.
C
Aircraft that are combat configured as determined by DOD.

# Note to § 102-36.340(
a

# )(4):
For additional information on military aircraft see Defense
Materiel Disposition Manual, DOD 4160.21-M, accessible at
www.drms.dla.mil
under “Publications.”
(b) When the designated transfer or donation recipient's intended use is for non-flight purposes, you must remove and return the data plate to GSA Property Management Branch (9FBP), San Francisco, CA 94102-3434 prior to releasing the aircraft to the authorized recipient. GSA will forward the data plates to FAA.
(c) You must also submit a report of the final disposition of the aircraft to the Federal Aviation Interactive Reporting System (FAIRS) maintained by the Office of Travel, Transportation, and Asset Management (MT), GSA, 1800 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20405. For additional instructions on reporting to FAIRS, see part 102-33 of this chapter.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.345
May we dispose of excess Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP)?
Yes, you may dispose of excess FSCAP, but first you must determine whether the documentation available is adequate to allow transfer, donation, or sale of the part in accordance with part 102-33, subpart D, of this chapter. Otherwise, you must mutilate undocumented FSCAP that has no traceability to its original equipment manufacturer and dispose of it as scrap. When reporting excess FSCAP, annotate the manufacturer, date of manufacture, part number, serial number, and the appropriate Criticality Code on the SF 120, and ensure that all available historical and maintenance records accompany the part at the time of issue.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.350
How do we identify a FSCAP?
Any aircraft part designated as FSCAP is assigned an alpha Criticality Code, and the code is annotated on the original transfer document when you acquire the part. You must perpetuate the appropriate FSCAP Criticality Code on all personal property records. You may contact the Federal agency or Military service that originally owned the part for assistance in making this determination, or query DOD's Federal Logistics Information System (FLIS) using the National Stock Number (NSN) for the part. For assistance in subscribing to the FLIS service contact the FedLog Consumer Support Office, 800-351-4381.
§ 102-36.355
What are the FSCAP Criticality Codes?
The FSCAP Criticality Codes are contained in the following table:
FSCAP code
Description
E
FSCAP specially designed to be or selected as being nuclear hardened.
F
Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Part.
§ 102-36.360
How do we dispose of aircraft parts that are life-limited but have no FSCAP designation?
When disposing of life-limited aircraft parts that have no FSCAP designation, you must ensure that tags and labels, historical data, and maintenance records accompany the part on any transfers, donations or sales. For additional information regarding the disposal of life-limited parts with or without tags or documentation, refer to part 102-33 of this chapter.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Canines, Law Enforcement
§ 102-36.365
May we transfer or donate canines that have been used in the performance of law enforcement duties?
Yes, under 40 U.S.C. 555, when the canine is no longer needed for law enforcement duties, you may donate the canine to an individual who has experience handling canines in the performance of those official duties.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Disaster Relief Property
§ 102-36.370
Are there special requirements concerning the use of excess personal property for disaster relief?
Yes, upon declaration by the President of an emergency or a major disaster, you may loan excess personal property to state and local governments, with or without compensation and prior to reporting it as excess to GSA, to alleviate suffering and damage resulting from any emergency or major disaster (Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121-5206) and Executive Order 12148 (3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 412), as amended). If the loan involves property that has already been reported excess to GSA, you may withdraw the item from the disposal process subject to approval by GSA. You may also withdraw excess personal property for use by your agency in providing assistance in disaster relief. You are still accountable for this property and your agency is responsible for developing agencywide procedures for recovery of such property.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Firearms
§ 102-36.375
May we dispose of excess firearms?
Yes, unless you have specific statutory authority to do otherwise, excess firearms may be transferred only to those Federal agencies authorized to acquire firearms for official use. GSA may donate certain classes of surplus firearms to State and local government activities whose primary function is the enforcement of applicable federal, state, and/or local laws and whose compensated law enforcement officers have the authority to apprehend and arrest. Firearms not transferred or donated must be destroyed and sold as scrap. For additional guidance on the disposition of firearms refer to part 101-42 of this title.

# Foreign Excess Personal Property
§ 102-36.380
Who is responsible for disposing of foreign excess personal property?
Your agency is responsible for disposing of your foreign excess personal property, as provided by chapter 7 of title 40 of the United States Code.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.385
What are our responsibilities in the disposal of foreign excess personal property?
When disposing of foreign excess personal property you must:
(a) Determine whether it is in the interest of the U.S. Government to return foreign excess personal property to the U.S. for further re-use or to dispose of the property overseas.
(b) Ensure that any disposal of property overseas conforms to the foreign policy of the United States and the terms and conditions of any applicable Host Nation Agreement.
(c) Ensure that, when foreign excess personal property is donated or sold overseas, donation/sales conditions include a requirement for compliance with U.S. Department of Commerce and Department of Agriculture regulations when transporting any personal property back to the U.S.
(d) Inform the U.S. State Department of any disposal of property to any foreign governments or entities.
§ 102-36.390
How may we dispose of foreign excess personal property?
To dispose of foreign excess personal property, you may:
(a) Offer the property for re-use by U.S. Federal agencies overseas;
(b) Return the property to the U.S. for re-use by eligible recipients;
(c) Sell, exchange, lease, or transfer such property for cash, credit, or other property;
(d) Donate medical materials or supplies to nonprofit medical or health organizations, including those qualified under sections 214(b) and 607 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2174, 2357); or
(e) Abandon, destroy or donate such property when you determine that it
has no commercial value or the estimated cost of care and handling would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale, in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 527. Abandonment, destruction or donation actions must also comply with the laws of the country in which the property is located.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.395
How may GSA assist us in disposing of foreign excess personal property?
You may request GSA's assistance in the screening of foreign excess personal property for possible re-use by eligible recipients within the U.S. GSA may, after consultation with you, designate property for return to the United States for transfer or donation purposes.
§ 102-36.400
Who pays for the transportation costs when foreign excess personal property is returned to the United States?
When foreign excess property is to be returned to the U.S. for the purpose of an approved transfer or donation under the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 521-529, 549, and 551, the Federal agency, State agency, or donee receiving the property is responsible for all direct costs involved in the transfer, which include packing, handling, crating, and transportation.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Gifts
§ 102-36.405
May we keep gifts given to us from the public?
If your agency has gift retention authority, you may retain gifts from the public. Otherwise, you must report gifts you receive on a SF 120 to GSA. You must report gifts received from a foreign government in accordance with part 102-42 of this chapter.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]
§ 102-36.410
How do we dispose of a gift in the form of money or intangible personal property?
Report intangible personal property to GSA, Personal Property Management Division (FBP), Washington, DC 20406. You must not transfer or dispose of this property without prior approval of GSA. The Secretary of the Treasury will dispose of money and negotiable instruments such as bonds, notes, or other securities under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 324.
§ 102-36.415
How do we dispose of gifts other than intangible personal property?
(a) When the gift is offered with the condition that the property be sold and the proceeds used to reduce the public debt, report the gift to the regional GSA Personal Property Management office in which the property is located. GSA will convert the gift to money upon acceptance and deposit the proceeds into a special account of the U.S. Treasury.
(b) When the gift is offered with no conditions or restrictions, and your agency has gift retention authority, you may use the gift for an authorized official purpose without reporting to GSA. The property will then lose its identity as a gift and you must account for it in the same manner as Federal personal property acquired from authorized sources. When the property is no longer needed, you must report it as excess personal property to GSA.
(c) When the gift is offered with no conditions or restrictions, but your agency does not have gift retention authority, you must report it to the regional GSA Personal Property Management office. GSA will offer the property for screening for possible transfer to a federal agency or convert the gift to money and deposit the funds with U.S. Treasury. If your agency is interested in keeping the gift for an official purpose, you must annotate your interest on the SF 120 and also submit a SF 122.
§ 102-36.420
How do we dispose of gifts from foreign governments or entities?
Report foreign gifts on a SF 120 to GSA, Property Management Division (FBP), Washington, DC 20406, for possible transfer, donation or sale in accordance with the provisions of part 102-42 of this chapter.
[71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Hazardous Personal Property
§ 102-36.425
May we dispose of excess hazardous personal property?
Yes, but only in accordance with part 101-42 of this title. When reporting excess hazardous property to GSA, certify on the SF 120 that the property has been packaged and labeled as required. Annotate any special requirements for handling, storage, or use, and provide a description of the actual or potential hazard.

# Munitions List Items/Commerce Control List Items (MLIs/CCLIs)
§ 102-36.430
May we dispose of excess Munitions List Items (MLIs)/Commerce Control List Items (CCLIs)?
You may dispose of excess MLIs/CCLIs only when you comply with the additional disposal and demilitarization (DEMIL) requirements contained in part 101-42 of this title. MLIs may require demilitarization when issued to any non-DoD entity, and will require appropriate licensing when exported from the U.S. CCLIs usually require export licensing when transported from the U.S.
§ 102-36.435
How do we identify Munitions List Items (MLIs)/Commerce Control List Items (CCLIs) requiring demilitarization?
You identify MLIs/CCLIs requiring demilitarization by the demilitarization code that is assigned to each MLI or CCLI. The code indicates the type and scope of demilitarization and/or export controls that must be accomplished, when required, before issue to any non-DOD activity. For a listing of the codes and additional guidance on DEMIL procedures see DOD Demilitarization and Trade Security Control Manual, DOD 4160.21-M-1.

# Printing Equipment and Supplies
§ 102-36.440
Are there special procedures for reporting excess printing and binding equipment and supplies?
Yes, in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 312, you must submit reports of excess printing and binding machinery, equipment, materials, and supplies to the Public Printer, Government Printing Office (GPO), Customer Service Manager, 732 North Capitol Street, NW, Washington, DC 20401. If GPO has no requirement for the property, you must then submit the report to GSA.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Red Cross Property
§ 102-36.445
Do we report excess personal property originally acquired from or through the American National Red Cross?
Yes, when reporting excess personal property which was processed, produced, or donated by the American National Red Cross, note “RED CROSS PROPERTY” on the SF 120 or report document. GSA will offer to return this property to the Red Cross if no other federal agency has a need for it. If the Red Cross has no requirement, the property continues in the disposal process and is available for donation.

# Shelf-Life Items
§ 102-36.450
Do we report excess shelf-life items?
(a) When there are quantities on hand, that would not be utilized by the expiration date and cannot be returned to the vendor for credit, you must report such expected overage as excess for possible transfer and disposal to ensure maximum use prior to deterioration.
(b) You need not report expired shelf-life items. You may dispose of property with expired shelf-life by abandonment/destruction in accordance with § 102-36.305 and in compliance with Federal, State, and local waste disposal and air and water pollution control standards.
§ 102-36.455
How do we report excess shelf-life items?
You must identify the property as shelf-life items by “SL”, indicate the expiration date, whether the date is the original or an extended date, and if the date is further extendable. GSA may adjust the screening period based on re-use potential and the remaining useful shelf life.
§ 102-36.460
Do we report excess medical shelf-life items held for national emergency purposes?
When the remaining shelf life of any medical materials or supplies held for national emergency purposes is of too short a period to justify their continued retention, you should report such property excess for possible transfer and disposal. You must make such excess determinations at such time as to ensure that sufficient time remains to permit their use before their shelf-life expires and the items are unfit for human use. You must identify such items with “MSL” and the expiration date, and indicate any specialized storage requirements.
§ 102-36.465
May we transfer or exchange excess medical shelf-life items with other federal agencies?
Yes, you may transfer or exchange excess medical shelf-life items held for national emergency purposes with any other federal agency for other medical materials or supplies, without GSA approval and without regard to part 102-39 of this chapter. You and the transferee agency will agree to the terms and prices. You may credit any proceeds derived from such transactions to your agency's current applicable appropriation and use the funds only for the purchase of medical materials or supplies for national emergency purposes.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Vessels
§ 102-36.470
What must we do when disposing of excess vessels?
(a) When you dispose of excess vessels, you must indicate on the SF 120 the following information:
(1) Whether the vessel has been inspected by the Coast Guard.
(2) Whether testing for hazardous materials has been done. And if so, the result of the testing, specifically the presence or absence of PCB's and asbestos and level of contamination.
(3) Whether hazardous materials clean up is required, and when it will be accomplished by your agency.
(b) In accordance with 40 U.S.C. 548, the Federal Maritime Administration (FMA), Department of Transportation, is responsible for disposing of surplus vessels determined to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use and weighing 1,500 gross tons or more. The SF 120 for such vessels shall be forwarded to GSA for submission to FMA.
(c) Disposal instructions regarding vessels in this part do not apply to battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, or submarines.
[65 FR 31218, May 16, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 53572, Sept. 12, 2006]

# Subpart F—Miscellaneous Disposition
§ 102-36.475
What is the authority for transfers under “Computers for Learning”?
(a) The Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, as amended (15 U.S.C. 3710(i)), authorizes federal agencies to transfer excess education-related federal equipment to educational institutions or nonprofit organizations for educational and research activities. Executive Order 12999 (3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 180) requires, to the extent permitted by law and where appropriate, the transfer of computer equipment for use by schools or nonprofit organizations.
(b) Each federal agency is required to identify a point of contact within the agency to assist eligible recipients, and to publicize the availability of such property to eligible communities. Excess education-related equipment may be transferred directly under established agency procedures, or reported to GSA as excess for subsequent transfer to potential eligible recipients as appropriate. You must include transfers under this authority in the annual Non-federal Recipients Report (See § 102-36.295) to GSA.
(c) The “Computers for Learning” website has been developed to streamline the transfer of excess and surplus Federal computer equipment to schools and nonprofit educational organizations. For additional information about this program access the “Computers for Learning” website,
http://www.computers.fed.gov.
Pt. 102-37

# PART 102-37—DONATION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-37.5
What does this part cover?
102-37.10
What is the primary governing authority for this part?
102-37.15
Who must comply with the provisions of this part?
102-37.20
How do we request a deviation from this part and who can approve it?

# Definitions
102-37.25
What definitions apply to this part?

# Donation Overview
102-37.30
When does property become available for donation?
102-37.35
Who handles the donation of surplus property?
102-37.40
What type of surplus property is available for donation?
102-37.45
How long is property available for donation screening?
102-37.50
What is the general process for requesting surplus property for donation?
102-37.55
Who pays for transportation and other costs associated with a donation?
102-37.60
How much time does a transferee have to pick up or remove surplus property from holding agency premises?
102-37.65
What happens to surplus property that has been approved for transfer when the prospective transferee decides it cannot use the property and declines to pick it up?
102-37.70
How should a transferee account for the receipt of a larger or smaller number of items than approved by GSA on the SF 123?
102-37.75
What should be included in a shortage report?
102-37.80
What happens to surplus property that isn't transferred for donation?
102-37.85
Can surplus property being offered for sale be withdrawn and approved for donation?

# Subpart B—General Services Administration (GSA)
102-37.90
What are GSA's responsibilities in the donation of surplus property?
102-37.95
How will GSA resolve competing requests?
102-37.100
What factors will GSA consider in allocating surplus property among SASPs?

# Subpart C—Holding Agency
102-37.110
What are a holding agency's responsibilities in the donation of surplus property?
102-37.115
May a holding agency be reimbursed for costs incurred incident to a donation?
102-37.120
May a holding agency donate surplus property directly to eligible non-Federal recipients without going through GSA?
102-37.125
What are some donations that do not require GSA's approval?

# Subpart D—State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)
102-37.130
What are a SASP's responsibilities in the donation of surplus property?
102-37.135
How does a SASP become eligible to distribute surplus property to donees?

# State Plan of Operation
102-37.140
What is a State plan of operation?
102-37.145
Who is responsible for developing, certifying, and submitting the plan?
102-37.150
What must a State legislature include in the plan?
102-37.155
When does a plan take effect?
102-37.160
Must GSA approve amendments or modifications to the plan?
102-37.165
Do plans or major amendments require public notice?
102-37.170
What happens if a SASP does not operate in accordance with its plan?

# Screening and Requesting Property
102-37.175
How does a SASP find out what property is potentially available for donation?
102-37.180-102-102-37.185
[Reserved]
102-37.190
What records must a SASP maintain on authorized screeners?
102-37.195
Does a SASP have to have a donee in mind to request surplus property?
102-37.200
What certifications must a SASP make when requesting surplus property for donation?
102-37.205
What agreements must a SASP make?
102-37.210
Must a SASP make a drug-free workplace certification when requesting surplus property for donation?
102-37.215
When must a SASP make a certification regarding lobbying?

# Justifying Special Transfer Requests
102-37.220
Are there special types of surplus property that require written justification when submitting a transfer request?
102-37.225
What information or documentation must a SASP provide when requesting a surplus aircraft or vessel?
102-37.230
What must a letter of intent for obtaining surplus aircraft or vessels include?
102-37.235
What type of information must a SASP provide when requesting surplus property for cannibalization?
102-37.240
How must a transfer request for surplus firearms be justified?

# Custody, Care, and Safekeeping
102-37.245
What must a SASP do to safeguard surplus property in its custody?
102-37.250
What actions must a SASP take when it learns of damage to or loss of surplus property in its custody?
102-37.255
Must a SASP insure surplus property against loss or damage?

# Distribution of Property
102-37.260
How must a SASP document the distribution of surplus property?
102-37.265
May a SASP distribute surplus property to eligible donees of another State?
102-37.270
May a SASP retain surplus property for its own use?

# Service and Handling Charges
102-37.275
May a SASP accept personal checks and non-official payment methods in payment of service charges?
102-37.280
How may a SASP use service charge funds?
102-37.285
May a SASP use service charge funds to support non-SASP State activities and programs?

# Disposing of Undistributed Property
102-37.290
What must a SASP do with surplus property it cannot donate?
102-37.295
Must GSA approve a transfer between SASPs?
102-37.300
What information must a SASP provide GSA when reporting unneeded usable property for disposal?
102-37.305
May a SASP act as GSA's agent in selling undistributed surplus property (either as usable property or scrap)?
102-37.310
What must a proposal to sell undistributed surplus property include?
102-37.315
What costs may a SASP recover if undistributed surplus property is retransferred or sold?
102-37.320
Under what conditions may a SASP abandon or destroy undistributed surplus property?

# Cooperative Agreements
102-37.325
With whom and for what purpose(s) may a SASP enter into a cooperative agreement?
102-37.330
Must the costs of providing support under a cooperative agreement be reimbursed by the parties receiving such support?
102-37.335
May a SASP enter into a cooperative agreement with another SASP?
102-37.340
When may a SASP terminate a cooperative agreement?

# Audits and Reviews
102-37.345
When must a SASP be audited?
102-37.350
Does coverage under the single audit process in OMB Circular A-133 exempt a SASP from other reviews of its program?
102-37.355
What obligations does a SASP have to ensure that donees meet Circular A-133 requirements?

# Reports
102-37.360
What reports must a SASP provide to GSA?

# Liquidating a SASP
102-37.365
What steps must a SASP take if the State decides to liquidate the agency?
102-37.370
Do liquidation plans require public notice?

# Subpart E—Donations to Public Agencies, Service Educational Activities (SEAs), and Eligible Nonprofit Organizations
102-37.375
How is the pronoun “you” used in this subpart?
102-37.380
What is the statutory authority for donations of surplus Federal property made under this subpart?

# Donee Eligibility
102-37.385
Who determines if a prospective donee applicant is eligible to receive surplus property under this subpart?
102-37.390
What basic criteria must an activity meet before a SASP can qualify it for eligibility?
102-37.395
How can a SASP determine whether an applicant meets any required approval, accreditation, or licensing requirements?
102-37.400
What type of eligibility information must a SASP maintain on donees?
102-37.405
How often must a SASP update donee eligibility records?
102-37.410
What must a SASP do if a donee fails to maintain its eligibility status?
102-37.415
What should a SASP do if an applicant appeals a negative eligibility decision?

# Conditional Eligibility
102-37.420
May a SASP grant conditional eligibility to applicants who would otherwise qualify as eligible donees, but are unable to obtain approval, accreditation, or licensing because they are newly organized or their facilities are not yet constructed?
102-37.425
May a SASP grant conditional eligibility to a not-for-profit organization whose tax-exempt status is pending?
102-37.430
What property can a SASP make available to a donee with conditional eligibility?

# Terms and Conditions of Donation
102-37.435
For what purposes may donees acquire and use surplus property?
102-37.440
May donees acquire property for exchange?
102-37.445
What certifications must a donee make before receiving property?
102-37.450
What agreements must a donee make?

# Special Handling or Use Conditions
102-37.455
On what categories of surplus property has GSA imposed special handling conditions or use limitations?
102-37.460
What special terms and conditions apply to the donation of aircraft and vessels?

# Release of Restrictions
102-37.465
May a SASP modify or release any of the terms and conditions of donation?
102-37.470
At what point may restrictions be released on property that has been authorized for cannibalization?
102-37.475
What are the requirements for releasing restrictions on property being considered for exchange?

# Compliance and Utilization
102-37.480
What must a SASP do to ensure that property is used for the purpose(s) for which it was donated?
102-37.485
What actions must a SASP take if a review or other information indicates noncompliance with donation terms and conditions?
102-37.490
When must a SASP coordinate with GSA on compliance actions?
102-37.495
How must a SASP handle funds derived from compliance actions?

# Returns and Reimbursement
102-37.500
May a donee receive reimbursement for its donation expenses when unneeded property is returned to the SASP?
102-37.505
How does a donee apply for and receive reimbursement for unneeded property returned to a SASP?

# Special Provisions Pertaining to SEAs
102-37.510
Are there special requirements for donating property to SEAs?
102-37.515
Do SEAs have a priority over other SASP donees for DOD property?

# Subpart F—Donations to Public Airports
102-37.520
What is the authority for public airport donations?
102-37.525
What should a holding agency do if it wants a public airport to receive priority consideration for excess personal property it has reported to GSA?
102-37.530
What are FAA's responsibilities in the donation of surplus property to public airports?
102-37.535
What information must FAA provide to GSA on its administration of the public airport donation program?

# Subpart G—Donations to the American National Red Cross
102-37.540
What is the authority for donations to the American National Red Cross?
102-37.545
What type of property may the American National Red Cross receive?
102-37.550
What steps must the American National Red Cross take to acquire property?
102-37.555
What happens to property the American National Red Cross does not request?

# Subpart H—Donations to Public Bodies in Lieu of Abandonment/Destruction
102-37.560
What is a public body?
102-37.565
What is the authority for donations to public bodies?
102-37.570
What type of property may a holding agency donate under this subpart?
102-37.575
Is there a special form for holding agencies to process donations?
102-37.580
Who is responsible for costs associated with the donation?

# Subpart I—Transfer of Vehicle Title to a Donee
102-37.585
In transferring donated surplus vehicles, what is the responsibility of the holding agency?
102-37.590
In transferring donated surplus vehicles, what is the responsibility of the SASP?
102-37.595
When transferring donated surplus vehicles, what is the responsibility of the donee?
102-37.600
When does title to a surplus donated vehicle change hands?
Appendix A to Part 102-37—Miscellaneous Donation Statutes
Appendix B to Part 102-37—Elements of a State Plan of Operation
Appendix C to Part 102-37—Glossary of Terms for Determining Eligibility of Public Agencies and Nonprofit Organizations

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 549 and 121(c).

# Source:
67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-37.5
What does this part cover?
This part covers the donation of surplus Federal personal property located within a State, including foreign excess personal property returned to a State for handling as surplus property. For purposes of this part, the term State includes any of the 50 States, as well as the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
§ 102-37.10
What is the primary governing authority for this part?
Section 549 of title 40, United States Code, gives the General Services Administration (GSA) discretionary authority to prescribe the necessary regulations for, and to execute the surplus personal property donation program.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.15
Who must comply with the provisions of this part?
You must comply with this part if you are a holding agency or a recipient of Federal surplus personal property approved by GSA for donation (e.g., a State agency for surplus property (SASP) or a public airport).
§ 102-37.20
How do we request a deviation from this part and who can approve it?
See §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter to request a deviation from the requirements of this part.

# Definitions
§ 102-37.25
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Allocation
means the process by which GSA identifies the SASP to receive surplus property on a fair and equitable basis, taking into account the condition of the property as well as the original acquisition cost of the property.
Cannibalization
means to remove serviceable parts from one item of equipment in order to install them on another item of equipment.
Donee
means any of the following entities that receive Federal surplus personal property through a SASP:
(1) A service educational activity (SEA).
(2) A public agency (as defined in appendix C of this part) which uses surplus personal property to carry out or promote one or more public purposes. (Public airports are an exception and are only considered donees when they elect to receive surplus property through a SASP, but not when they elect to receive surplus property through the Federal Aviation Administration as discussed in subpart F of this part.)
(3) An eligible nonprofit tax-exempt educational or public health institution (including a provider of assistance to homeless or impoverished families or individuals).
(4) A State or local government agency, or a nonprofit organization or institution, that receives funds appropriated for a program for older individuals.
Holding agency
means the executive agency having accountability for, and generally possession of, the property involved.
Period of restriction
means the period of time for keeping donated property in use for the purpose for which it was donated.
Screening
means the process of physically inspecting property or reviewing lists or reports of property to determine whether property is usable or needed for donation purposes.
Service educational activity (SEA)
means any educational activity designated by the Secretary of Defense as being of special interest to the armed forces; e.g., maritime academies or military, naval, Air Force, or Coast Guard preparatory schools.
Standard Form (SF) 123, Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property
means the document used to request and document the transfer of Federal surplus personal property for donation purposes.
State
means one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
State agency for surplus property (SASP)
means the agency designated under State law to receive Federal surplus personal property for distribution to eligible donees within the State as provided for in 40 U.S.C. 549.
Surplus personal property (surplus property)
means excess personal property (as defined in § 102-36.40 of this chapter) not required for the needs of any Federal agency, as determined by GSA.
Surplus release date
means the date on which Federal utilization screening of excess personal property has been completed, and the property is available for donation.
Transferee
means a public airport receiving surplus property from a holding agency through the Federal Aviation Administration, or a SASP.
You, when used in subparts D and E of this part, means SASP, unless otherwise specified.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006; 79 FR 64514, Oct. 30, 2014]

# Donation Overview
§ 102-37.30
When does property become available for donation?
Excess personal property becomes available for donation the day following the surplus release date. This is the point at which the screening period has been completed without transfer to a Federal agency or other eligible recipient, and the GSA has determined the property to be surplus.
§ 102-37.35
Who handles the donation of surplus property?
(a) The SASPs handle the donation of most surplus property to eligible donees in their States in accordance with this part.
(b) The GSA handles the donation of surplus property to public airports under a program administered by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) (see subpart F of this part). The GSA may also donate to the American National Red Cross surplus property that was originally derived from or through the Red Cross (see subpart G of this part).
(c) Holding agencies may donate surplus property that they would otherwise abandon or destroy directly to public bodies in accordance with subpart H of this part.
§ 102-37.40
What type of surplus property is available for donation?
All surplus property (including property held by working capital funds established under 10 U.S.C. 2208 or in similar funds) is available for donation to eligible recipients, except for property in the following categories:
(a) Agricultural commodities, food, and cotton or woolen goods determined from time to time by the Secretary of Agriculture to be commodities requiring special handling with respect to price support or stabilization.
(b) Property acquired with trust funds (e.g., Social Security Trust Funds).
(c) Non-appropriated fund property.
(d) Naval vessels of the following categories: Battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines.
(e) Vessels of 1500 gross tons or more which the Maritime Administration determines to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use.
(f) Records of the Federal Government.
(g) Property that requires reimbursement upon transfer (such as abandoned or other unclaimed property that is found on premises owned or leased by the Government).
(h) Controlled substances.
(i) Items as may be specified from time to time by the GSA Office of Governmentwide Policy.
§ 102-37.45
How long is property available for donation screening?
Entities authorized to participate in the donation program may screen property, concurrently with Federal agencies, as soon as the property is reported as excess up until the surplus release date. The screening period is normally 21 calendar days, except as noted in § 102-36.95 of this chapter.
§ 102-37.50
What is the general process for requesting surplus property for donation?
The process for requesting surplus property for donation varies, depending on who is making the request.
(a) Donees should submit their requests for property directly to the appropriate SASP.
(b) SASPs and public airports should submit their requests to the appropriate GSA regional office. Requests must be submitted on a Standard Form (SF) 123, Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property, or its electronic equivalent. Public airports must have FAA certify their transfer requests prior to submission to GSA for approval. GSA may ask SASPs or public airports to submit any additional information required to support and justify transfer of the property.
(c) The American National Red Cross should submit requests to GSA as described in subpart G of this part when obtaining property under the authority of 40 U.S.C. 551.
(d) Public bodies, when seeking to acquire property that is being abandoned or destroyed, should follow rules and procedures established by the donor agency (see subpart H of this part).
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 64514, Oct. 30, 2014]
§ 102-37.55
Who pays for transportation and other costs associated with a donation?
The receiving organization (the transferee) is responsible for any packing, shipping, or transportation charges associated with the transfer of surplus property for donation. Those costs, in the case of SASPs, may be passed on to donees that receive the property.
§ 102-37.60
How much time does a transferee have to pick up or remove surplus property from holding agency premises?
The transferee (or the transferee's agent) must remove property from the holding agency premises within 15 calendar days after being notified that the property is available for pickup, unless otherwise coordinated with the holding agency. If the transferee decides prior to pickup or removal that it no longer needs the property, it must notify the GSA regional office that approved the transfer request.
§ 102-37.65
What happens to surplus property that has been approved for transfer when the prospective transferee decides it cannot use the property and declines to pick it up?
When a prospective transferee decides it cannot use surplus property that has already been approved for transfer and declines to pick it up, the GSA regional office will advise any other SASP or public airport known to be interested in the property to submit a transfer request. If there is no transfer interest, GSA will release the property for other disposal.
§ 102-37.70
How should a transferee account for the receipt of a larger or smaller number of items than approved by GSA on the SF 123?
When the quantity of property received doesn't agree with that approved by GSA on the SF 123, the transferee should handle the overage or shortage as follows:
If . . .
And . . .
Then . . .
(a) More property is received than was approved by GSA for transfer
The known or estimated acquisition cost of the line item(s) involved is $500 or more
Submit a SF 123 for the difference to GSA (Identify the property as an overage and include the original transfer order number.)
1
(b) Less property is received than was approved by GSA for transfer
The acquisition cost of the missing item(s) is $500 or more
Submit a shortage report to GSA, with a copy to the holding agency.
1
(c) The known or estimated acquisition cost of the property is less than $500
Annotate on your receiving and inventory records, a description of the property, its known or estimated acquisition cost, and the name of the holding agency.
1
Submit the SF 123 or shortage report to the GSA approving office within 30 calendar days of the date of transfer.
§ 102-37.75
What should be included in a shortage report?
The shortage report should include:
(a) The name and address of the holding agency;
(b) All pertinent GSA and holding agency control numbers, in addition to the original transfer order number; and
(c) A description of each line item of property, the condition code, the quantity and unit of issue, and the unit and total acquisition cost.
§ 102-37.80
What happens to surplus property that isn't transferred for donation?
Surplus property not transferred for donation is generally offered for sale under the provisions of part 102-38 of this chapter. Under the appropriate circumstances (see § 102-36.305 of this chapter), such property might be abandoned or destroyed.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.85
Can surplus property being offered for sale be withdrawn and approved for donation?
Yes, surplus property being offered for sale may be withdrawn for donation if approved by GSA. GSA will not approve requests for the withdrawal of property that has been advertised or listed on a sales offering if that withdrawal would be harmful to the overall outcome of the sale. GSA will only grant such requests prior to sales award, since an award is binding.

# Subpart B—General Services Administration (GSA)
§ 102-37.90
What are GSA's responsibilities in the donation of surplus property?
The General Services Administration (GSA) is responsible for supervising and directing the disposal of surplus personal property. In addition to issuing regulatory guidance for the donation of such property, GSA:
(a) Determines when property is surplus to the needs of the Government;
(b) Allocates and transfers surplus property on a fair and equitable basis to State agencies for surplus property (SASPs) for further distribution to eligible donees;
(c) Oversees the care and handling of surplus property while it is in the custody of a SASP;
(d) Approves all transfers of surplus property to public airports, pursuant to the appropriate determinations made by the Federal Aviation Administration (see subpart F of this part);
(e) Donates to the American National Red Cross property (generally blood plasma and related medical materials) originally provided by the Red Cross to a Federal agency, but that has subsequently been determined surplus to Federal needs (see subpart G of this part);
(f) Approves, after consultation with the holding agency, foreign excess personal property to be returned to the United States for donation purposes;
(g) Coordinates and controls the level of SASP and donee screening at Federal installations;
(h) Imposes appropriate conditions on the donation of surplus property having characteristics that require special handling or use limitations (see § 102-37.455); and
(i) Keeps track of and reports on Federal donation programs (see § 102-37.105).
§ 102-37.95
How will GSA resolve competing transfer requests?
In case of requests from two or more SASPs, GSA will use the allocating criteria in § 102-37.100. When competing requests are received from public airports and SASPs, GSA will transfer property fairly and equitably, based on such factors as need, proposed use, and interest of the holding agency in having the property donated to a specific public airport.
§ 102-37.100
What factors will GSA consider in allocating surplus property among SASPs?
GSA allocates property among the SASPs on a fair and equitable basis using the following factors:
(a) Extraordinary needs caused by disasters or emergency situations.
(b) Requests from the Department of Defense (DOD) for DOD-generated property to be allocated through a SASP for donation to a specific service educational activity.
(c) Need and usability of property, as reflected by requests from SASPs. GSA will also give special consideration to requests transmitted through the SASPs by eligible donees for specific items of property. (Requests for property to be used as is will be given preference over cannibalization requests.)
(d) States in greatest need of the type of property to be allocated where the need is evidenced by a letter of justification from the intended donee.
(e) Whether a SASP has already received similar property in the past, and how much.
(f) Past performance of a SASP in effecting timely pickup or removal of property approved for transfer and making prompt distribution of property to eligible donees.
(g) The property's condition and its original acquisition cost.
(h) Relative neediness of each State based on the State's population and per capita income.

# Subpart C—Holding Agency
§ 102-37.110
What are a holding agency's responsibilities in the donation of surplus property?
Your donation responsibilities as a holding agency begin when you determine that property is to be declared excess. You must then:
(a) Let GSA know if you have a donee in mind for foreign gift items or airport property, as provided for in §§ 102-37.525 and 102-42.95(h) of this chapter;
(b) Cooperate with all entities authorized to participate in the donation program and their authorized representatives in locating, screening, and inspecting excess or surplus property for possible donation;
(c) Set aside or hold surplus property from further disposal upon notification of a pending transfer for donation; (If GSA does not notify you of a pending transfer within 5 calendar days following the surplus release date, you may proceed with the sale or other authorized disposal of the property.)
(d) Upon receipt of a GSA-approved transfer document, promptly ship or release property to the transferee (or the transferee's designated agent) in accordance with pickup or shipping instructions on the transfer document;
(e) Notify the approving GSA regional office if surplus property to be picked up is not removed within 15 calendar days after you notify the transferee (or its agent) of its availability. (GSA will advise you of further disposal instructions.); and
(f) Perform and bear the cost of care and handling of surplus property pending its disposal, except as provided in § 102-37.115.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 78732, Dec. 26, 2002]
§ 102-37.115
May a holding agency be reimbursed for costs incurred incident to a donation?
Yes, you, as a holding agency, may charge the transferee for the direct costs you incurred incident to a donation transfer, such as your packing, handling, crating, and transportation
expenses. However, you may not include overhead or administrative costs in these charges.
§ 102-37.120
May a holding agency donate surplus property directly to eligible non-Federal recipients without going through GSA?
Generally, a holding agency may not donate surplus property directly to eligible non-Federal recipients without going through GSA, except for the situations listed in § 102-37.125.
§ 102-37.125
What are some donations that do not require GSA's approval?
(a) Some donations of surplus property that do not require GSA's approval are:
(1) Donations of condemned, obsolete, or other specified material by a military department or the Coast Guard to recipients eligible under 10 U.S.C. 2572, 10 U.S.C. 7306, 10 U.S.C. 7541, 10 U.S.C. 7545, and 14 U.S.C. 641a (see appendix A of this part for details). However, such property must first undergo excess Federal and surplus donation screening as required in this part and part 102-36 of this chapter;
(2) Donations by holding agencies to public bodies under subpart H of this part;
(3) Donations by the Small Business Administration (SBA) to small disadvantaged businesses under 13 CFR part 124 (although collaboration and agreement between the SBA, SASPs, and GSA is encouraged); and
(4) Donations by holding agencies of law enforcement canines to their handlers under 40 U.S.C. 555.
(b) You may also donate property directly to eligible non-Federal recipients under other circumstances if you have statutory authority to do so. All such donations must be included on your annual report to GSA under § 102-36.300 of this chapter.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006; 79 FR 64514, Oct. 30, 2014]

# Subpart D—State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)
§ 102-37.130
What are a SASP's responsibilities in the donation of surplus property?
As a SASP, your responsibilities in the donation of surplus property are to:
(a) Determine whether or not an entity seeking to obtain surplus property is eligible for donation as a:
(1) Public agency;
(2) Nonprofit educational or public health institution; or
(3) Program for older individuals.
(b) Distribute surplus property fairly, equitably, and promptly to eligible donees in your State based on their relative needs and resources, and ability to use the property, and as provided in your State plan of operation.
(c) Enforce compliance with the terms and conditions imposed on donated property.
§ 102-37.135
How does a SASP become eligible to distribute surplus property to donees?
In order to receive transfers of surplus property, a SASP must:
(a) Have a GSA-approved State plan of operation; and
(b) Provide the certifications and agreements as set forth in §§ 102-37.200 and 102-37.205.

# State Plan of Operation
§ 102-37.140
What is a State plan of operation?
A State plan of operation is a document developed under State law and approved by GSA in which the State sets forth a plan for the management and administration of the SASP in the donation of property.
§ 102-37.145
Who is responsible for developing, certifying, and submitting the plan?
The State legislature must develop the plan. The chief executive officer of the State must submit the plan to the Administrator of General Services for acceptance and certify that the SASP is authorized to:
(a) Acquire and distribute property to eligible donees in the State;
(b) Enter into cooperative agreements; and
(c) Undertake other actions and provide other assurances as are required by 40 U.S.C. 549(e) and set forth in the plan.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.150
What must a State legislature include in the plan?
The State legislature must ensure the plan conforms to the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 549(e) and includes the information and assurances set forth in Appendix B of this part. It may also include in the plan other provisions not inconsistent with the purposes of title 40 of the United States Code and the requirements of this part.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.155
When does a plan take effect?
The plan takes effect on the date GSA notifies the chief executive officer of the State that the plan is approved.
§ 102-37.160
Must GSA approve amendments or modifications to the plan?
Yes, GSA must approve amendments or modifications to the plan.
§ 102-37.165
Do plans or major amendments require public notice?
Yes, proposed plans and major amendments to existing plans require general notice to the public for comment. A State must publish a general notice of the plan or amendment at least 60 calendar days in advance of filing the proposal with GSA and provide interested parties at least 30 calendar days to submit comments before filing the proposal.
§ 102-37.170
What happens if a SASP does not operate in accordance with its plan?
If a SASP does not operate in accordance with its plan, GSA may withhold allocation and transfer of surplus property until the nonconformance is corrected.

# Screening and Requesting Property
§ 102-37.175
How does a SASP find out what property is potentially available for donation?
(a) A SASP may conduct onsite screening at various Federal facilities, contact or submit want lists to GSA, or use GSA's or other agencies' computerized inventory system to electronically search for property that is potentially available for donation (see § 102-36.90 for information on GSAXcess).
(b) For the SASP (or a SASP's representative) to perform onsite screening, the screener must coordinate the onsite visit and screening with the individual holding agency or organization. The screener should ascertain the identification required and any special procedures for access to the facility or location.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 64514, Oct. 30, 2014]
§§ 102-37.180—102-37.185
[Reserved]
§ 102-37.190
What records must a SASP maintain on authorized screeners?
You must maintain a current record of all individuals authorized to screen for your SASP, including their names, addresses, telephone numbers, qualifications to screen, and any additional identifying information such as driver's license or social security numbers. In the case of donee screeners, you should place such records in the donee's eligibility file and review for currency each time a periodic review of the donee's file is undertaken.
§ 102-37.195
Does a SASP have to have a donee in mind to request surplus property?
Generally yes, you should have a firm requirement or an anticipated demand for any property that you request.
§ 102-37.200
What certifications must a SASP make when requesting surplus property for donation?
When requesting or applying for property, you must certify that:
(a) You are the agency of the State designated under State law that has legal authority under 40 U.S.C. 549 and GSA regulations, to receive property
for distribution within the State to eligible donees as defined in this part.
(b) No person with supervisory or managerial duties in your State's donation program is debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participating in the donation program.
(c) The property is usable and needed within the State by:
(1) A public agency for one or more public purposes.
(2) An eligible nonprofit organization or institution which is exempt from taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501), for the purpose of education or public health (including research for any such purpose).
(3) An eligible nonprofit activity for programs for older individuals.
(4) A service educational activity (SEA), for DOD-generated property only.
(d) When property is picked up by, or shipped to, your SASP, you have adequate and available funds, facilities, and personnel to provide accountability, warehousing, proper maintenance, and distribution of the property.
(e) When property is distributed by your SASP to a donee, or when delivery is made directly from a holding agency to a donee pursuant to a State distribution document, you have determined that the donee acquiring the property is eligible within the meaning of the Property Act and GSA regulations, and that the property is usable and needed by the donee.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.205
What agreements must a SASP make?
With respect to surplus property picked up by or shipped to your SASP, you must agree to the following:
(a) You will make prompt statewide distribution of such property, on a fair and equitable basis, to donees eligible to acquire property under 40 U.S.C. 549 and GSA regulations. You will distribute property only after such eligible donees have properly executed the appropriate certifications and agreements established by your SASP and/or GSA.
(b) Title to the property remains in the United States Government although you have taken possession of it. Conditional title to the property will pass to the eligible donee when the donee executes the required certifications and agreements and takes possession of the property.
(c) You will:
(1) Promptly pay the cost of care, handling, and shipping incident to taking possession of the property.
(2) During the time that title remains in the United States Government, be responsible as a bailee for the property from the time it is released to you or to the transportation agent you have designated.
(3) In the event of any loss of or damage to any or all of the property during transportation or storage at a place other than a place under your control, take the necessary action to obtain restitution (fair market value) for the Government. In the event of loss or damage due to negligence or willful misconduct on your part, repair, replace, or pay to the GSA the fair market value of any such property, or take such other action as the GSA may direct.
(d) You may retain property to perform your donation program functions, but only when authorized by GSA in accordance with the provisions of a cooperative agreement entered into with GSA.
(e) When acting under an interstate cooperative distribution agreement (see § 102-37.335) as an agent and authorized representative of an adjacent State, you will:
(1) Make the certifications and agreements required in § 102-37.200 and this section on behalf of the adjacent SASP.
(2) Require the donee to execute the distribution documents of the State in which the donee is located.
(3) Forward copies of the distribution documents to the corresponding SASP.
(f) You will not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or handicap in the distribution of property, and will comply with GSA regulations on nondiscrimination as set forth in parts 101-4, subparts 101-6.2, and 101-8.3 of this title.
(g) You will not seek to hold the United States Government liable for consequential or incidental damages or the personal injuries, disabilities, or
death to any person arising from the transfer, donation, use, processing, or final disposition of this property. The Government's liability in any event is limited in scope to that provided for by the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 2671,
et seq.
).
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.210
Must a SASP make a drug-free workplace certification when requesting surplus property for donation?
No, you must certify that you will provide a drug-free workplace only as a condition for retaining surplus property for SASP use. Drug-free workplace certification requirements are found at part 105-68, subpart 105-68.6, of this title.
§ 102-37.215
When must a SASP make a certification regarding lobbying?
You are subject to the anti-lobbying certification and disclosure requirements in part 105-69 of this title when all of the following conditions apply:
(a) You have entered into a cooperative agreement with GSA that provides for your SASP to retain surplus property for use in performing donation functions or any other cooperative agreement.
(b) The cooperative agreement was executed after December 23, 1989.
(c) The fair market value of the property requested under the cooperative agreement is more than $100,000.

# Justifying Special Transfer Requests
§ 102-37.220
Are there special types of surplus property that require written justification when submitting a transfer request?
Yes, a SASP must obtain written justification from the intended donee, and submit it to GSA along with the transfer request, prior to allocation of:
(a) Aircraft and vessels covered by § 102-37.455;
(b) Items requested specifically for cannibalization;
(c) Foreign gifts and decorations (see part 102-42 of this chapter);
(d) Items containing 50 parts per million or greater of polychlorinated biphenyl (see part 101-42 of this title);
(e) Firearms as described in part 101-42 of this title; and
(f) Any item on which written justification will assist GSA in making allocation to States with the greatest need.
§ 102-37.225
What information or documentation must a SASP provide when requesting a surplus aircraft or vessel?
(a) For each SF 123 that you submit to GSA for transfer of a surplus aircraft or vessel covered by § 102-37.455 include:
(1) A letter of intent, signed and dated by the authorized representative of the proposed donee setting forth a detailed plan of utilization for the property (see § 102-37.230 for information a donee has to include in the letter of intent); and
(2) A letter, signed and dated by you, confirming and certifying the applicant's eligibility and containing an evaluation of the applicant's ability to use the aircraft or vessel for the purpose stated in its letter of intent and any other supplemental information concerning the needs of the donee which supports making the allocation.
(b) For each SF 123 that GSA approves, you must include:
(1) Your distribution document, signed and dated by the authorized donee representative; and
(2) A conditional transfer document, signed by you and the intended donee, and containing the special terms and conditions prescribed by GSA.
§ 102-37.230
What must a letter of intent for obtaining surplus aircraft or vessels include?
A letter of intent for obtaining surplus aircraft or vessels must provide:
(a) A description of the aircraft or vessel requested. If the item is an aircraft, the description must include the manufacturer, date of manufacture, model, and serial number. If the item is a vessel, it must include the type, name, class, size, displacement, length, beam, draft, lift capacity, and the hull or registry number, if known;
(b) A detailed description of the donee's program and the number and types of aircraft or vessels it currently owns;
(c) A detailed description of how the aircraft or vessel will be used, its purpose, how often and for how long. If an aircraft is requested for flight purposes, the donee must specify a source of pilot(s) and where the aircraft will be housed. If an aircraft is requested for cannibalization, the donee must provide details of the cannibalization process (time to complete the cannibalization process, how recovered parts are to be used, method of accounting for usable parts, disposition of unsalvageable parts, etc.) If a vessel is requested for waterway purposes, the donee must specify a source of pilot(s) and where the vessel will be docked. If a vessel is requested for permanent docking on water or land, the donee must provide details of the process, including the time to complete the process; and
(d) Any supplemental information (such as geographical area and population served, number of students enrolled in educational programs, etc.) supporting the donee's need for the aircraft or vessel.
§ 102-37.235
What type of information must a SASP provide when requesting surplus property for cannibalization?
When a donee wants surplus property to cannibalize, include the following statement on the SF 123: “Line Item Number(s)___requested for cannibalization.”. In addition to including this statement, provide a detailed justification concerning the need for the components or accessories and an explanation of the effect removal will have on the item. GSA will approve requests for cannibalization only when it is clear from the justification that disassembly of the item for use of its component parts will provide greater potential benefit than use of the item in its existing form.
§ 102-37.240
How must a transfer request for surplus firearms be justified?
To justify a transfer request for surplus firearms, the requesting SASP must obtain and submit to GSA a letter of intent from the intended donee that provides:
(a) Identification of the donee applicant, including its legal name and complete address and the name, title, and telephone number of its authorized representative;
(b) The number of compensated officers with the power to apprehend and to arrest;
(c) A description of the firearm(s) requested;
(d) Details on the planned use of the firearm(s); and
(e) The number and types of donated firearms received during the previous 12 months through any other Federal program.

# Custody, Care, and Safekeeping
§ 102-37.245
What must a SASP do to safeguard surplus property in its custody?
To safeguard surplus property in your custody, you must provide adequate protection of property in your custody, including protection against the hazards of fire, theft, vandalism, and weather.
§ 102-37.250
What actions must a SASP take when it learns of damage to or loss of surplus property in its custody?
If you learn that surplus property in your custody has been damaged or lost, you must always notify GSA and notify the appropriate law enforcement officials if a crime has been committed.
§ 102-37.255
Must a SASP insure surplus property against loss or damage?
No, you are not required to carry insurance on Federal surplus property in your custody. However, if you elect to carry insurance and the insured property is lost or damaged, you must submit a check made payable to GSA for any insurance proceeds received in excess of your actual costs of acquiring and rehabilitating the property prior to its loss, damage, or destruction.

# Distribution of Property
§ 102-37.260
How must a SASP document the distribution of surplus property?
All SASPs must document the distribution of Federal surplus property on forms that are prenumbered, provide for donees to indicate the primary
purposes for which they are acquiring property, and include the:
(a) Certifications and agreements in §§ 102-37.200 and 102-37.205; and
(b) Period of restriction during which the donee must use the property for the purpose for which it was acquired.
§ 102-37.265
May a SASP distribute surplus property to eligible donees of another State?
Yes, you may distribute surplus property to eligible donees of another State, if you and the other SASP determine that such an arrangement will be of mutual benefit to you and the donees concerned. Where such determinations are made, an interstate distribution cooperative agreement must be prepared as prescribed in § 102-37.335 and submitted to the appropriate GSA regional office for approval. When acting under an interstate distribution cooperative agreement, you must:
(a) Require the donee recipient to execute the distribution documents of its home SASP; and
(b) Forward copies of executed distribution documents to the donee's home SASP.
§ 102-37.270
May a SASP retain surplus property for its own use?
Yes, you can retain surplus property for use in operating the donation program, but only if you have a cooperative agreement with GSA that allows you to do so. You must obtain prior GSA approval before using any surplus property in the operation of the SASP. Make your needs known by submitting a listing of needed property to the appropriate GSA regional office for approval. GSA will review the list to ensure that it is of the type and quantity of property that is reasonably needed and useful in performing SASP operations. GSA will notify you within 30 calendar days whether you may retain the property for use in your operations. Title to any surplus property GSA approves for your retention will vest in your SASP. You must maintain separate records for such property.

# Service and Handling Charges
§ 102-37.275
May a SASP accept personal checks and non-official payment methods in payment of service charges?
No, service charge payments must readily identify the donee institution as the payer (or the name of the parent organization when that organization pays the operational expenses of the donee). Personal checks, personal cashier checks, personal money orders, and personal credit cards are not acceptable.
§ 102-37.280
How may a SASP use service charge funds?
Funds accumulated from service charges may be deposited, invested, or used in accordance with State law to:
(a) Cover direct and reasonable indirect costs of operating the SASP;
(b) Purchase necessary equipment for the SASP;
(c) Maintain a reasonable working capital reserve;
(d) Rehabilitate surplus property, including the purchase of replacement parts;
(e) Acquire or improve office or distribution center facilities; or
(f) Pay for the costs of internal and external audits.
§ 102-37.285
May a SASP use service charge funds to support non-SASP State activities and programs?
No, except as provided in § 102-37.495, you must use funds collected from service charges, or from other sources such as proceeds from sale of undistributed property or funds collected from compliance cases, solely for the operation of the SASP and the benefit of participating donees.

# Disposing of Undistributed Property
§ 102-37.290
What must a SASP do with surplus property it cannot donate?
(a) As soon as it becomes clear that you cannot donate the surplus property, you should first determine whether or not the property is usable.
(1) If you determine that the undistributed surplus property is not usable,
you should seek GSA approval to abandon or destroy the property in accordance with § 102-37.320.
(2) If you determine that the undistributed surplus property is usable, you should immediately offer it to other SASPs. If other SASPs cannot use the property, you should promptly report it to GSA for redisposal (i.e., disposition through retransfer, sale, or other means).
(b) Normally, any property not donated within a 1-year period should be processed in this manner.
§ 102-37.295
Must GSA approve a transfer between SASPs?
Yes, the requesting SASP must submit a SF 123, Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property, to the GSA regional office in which the releasing SASP is located. GSA will approve or disapprove the request within 30 calendar days of receipt of the transfer order.
§ 102-37.300
What information must a SASP provide GSA when reporting unneeded usable property for disposal?
When reporting unneeded usable property that is not required for transfer to another SASP, provide GSA with the:
(a) Best possible description of each line item of property, its current condition code, quantity, unit and total acquisition cost, State serial number, demilitarization code, and any special handling conditions;
(b) Date you received each line item of property listed; and
(c) Certification of reimbursement requested under § 102-37.315.
§ 102-37.305
May a SASP act as GSA's agent in selling undistributed surplus property (either as usable property or scrap)?
Yes, you may act as GSA's agent in selling undistributed surplus property (either as usable property or scrap) if an established cooperative agreement with GSA permits such an action. You must notify GSA each time you propose to conduct a sale under the cooperative agreement. You may request approval to conduct a sale when reporting the property to GSA for disposal instructions. If no formal agreement exists, you may submit such an agreement at that time for approval.
§ 102-37.310
What must a proposal to sell undistributed surplus property include?
(a) Your request to sell undistributed surplus property must include:
(1) The proposed sale date;
(2) A listing of the property;
(3) Location of the sale;
(4) Method of sale; and
(5) Proposed advertising to be used.
(b) If the request is approved, the GSA regional sales office will provide the necessary forms and instructions for you to use in conducting the sale.
§ 102-37.315
What costs may a SASP recover if undistributed surplus property is retransferred or sold?
(a) When undistributed surplus property is transferred to a Federal agency or another SASP, or disposed of by public sale, you are entitled to recoup:
(1) Direct costs you initially paid to the Federal holding agency, including but not limited to, packing, preparation for shipment, and loading. You will not be reimbursed for actions following receipt of the property, including unloading, moving, repairing, preserving, or storage.
(2) Transportation costs you incurred, but were not reimbursed by a donee, for initially moving the property from the Federal holding agency to your distribution facility or other point of receipt. You must document and certify the amount of reimbursement requested for these costs.
(b) Reimbursable arrangements should be made prior to transfer of the property. In the case of a Federal transfer, GSA will secure agreement of the Federal agency to reimburse your authorized costs, and annotate the amount of reimbursement on the transfer document. You must coordinate and make arrangements for reimbursement when property is transferred to another SASP. If you and the receiving SASP cannot agree on an appropriate reimbursement charge, GSA will determine appropriate reimbursement. The receiving SASP must annotate the reimbursement amount on the transfer document prior to its being forwarded to GSA for approval.
(c) When undistributed property is disposed of by public sale, GSA must approve the amount of sales proceeds you may receive to cover your costs. Generally, this will not exceed 50 percent of the total sales proceeds.
§ 102-37.320
Under what conditions may a SASP abandon or destroy undistributed surplus property?
(a) You may abandon or destroy undistributed surplus property when you have made a written finding that the property has no commercial value or the estimated cost of its continued care and handling would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale. The abandonment or destruction finding must be sent to the appropriate GSA regional office for approval. You must include in the finding:
(1) The basis for the abandonment or destruction;
(2) A detailed description of the property, its condition, and total acquisition cost;
(3) The proposed method of destruction (burning, burying, etc.) or the abandonment location;
(4) A statement confirming that the proposed abandonment or destruction will not be detrimental or dangerous to public health or safety and will not infringe on the rights of other persons; and
(5) The signature of the SASP director requesting approval for the abandonment or destruction.
(b) GSA will notify you within 30 calendar days whether you may abandon or destroy the property. GSA will provide alternate disposition instructions if it disapproves your request for abandonment or destruction. If GSA doesn't reply to you within 30 calendar days of notification, the property may be abandoned or destroyed.

# Cooperative Agreements
§ 102-37.325
With whom and for what purpose(s) may a SASP enter into a cooperative agreement?
Section 549(f) of title 40, United States Code allows GSA, or Federal agencies designated by GSA, to enter into cooperative agreements with SASPs to carry out the surplus property donation program. Such agreements allow GSA, or the designated Federal agencies, to use the SASP's property, facilities, personnel, or services or to furnish such resources to the SASP. For example:
(a) Regional GSA personal property management offices, or designated Federal agencies, may enter into a cooperative agreement to assist a SASP in distributing surplus property for donation. Assistance may include:
(1) Furnishing the SASP with available GSA or agency office space and related support such as office furniture and information technology equipment needed to screen and process property for donation.
(2) Permitting the SASP to retain items of surplus property transferred to the SASP that are needed by the SASP in performing its donation functions (see § 102-37.270).
(b) Regional GSA personal property management offices may help the SASP to enter into agreements with other GSA or Federal activities for the use of Federal telecommunications service or federally-owned real property and related personal property.
(c) A SASP may enter into a cooperative agreement with GSA to conduct sales of undistributed property on behalf of GSA (see § 102-37.305).
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.330
Must the costs of providing support under a cooperative agreement be reimbursed by the parties receiving such support?
The parties to a cooperative agreement must decide among themselves the extent to which the costs of the services they provide must be reimbursed. Their decision should be reflected in the cooperative agreement itself. As a general rule, the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535) would require a Federal agency receiving services from a SASP to reimburse the SASP for those services. Since SASPs are not Federal agencies, the Economy Act would not require them to reimburse Federal agencies for services provided by such agencies. In this situation, the Federal agencies would have to determine whether or not their own authorities would permit them to provide services to SASPs without reimbursement. If a Federal agency is reimbursed by a
SASP for services provided under a cooperative agreement, it must credit that payment to the fund or appropriation that incurred the related costs.
§ 102-37.335
May a SASP enter into a cooperative agreement with another SASP?
Yes, with GSA's concurrence and where authorized by State law, a SASP may enter into an agreement with an adjacent State to act as its agent and authorized representative in disposing of surplus Federal property. Interstate cooperative agreements may be considered when donees, because of their geographic proximity to the property distribution centers of the adjoining State, could be more efficiently and economically serviced by surplus property facilities in the adjacent State. You and the other SASP must agree to the payment or reimbursement of service charges by the donee and you also must agree to the requirements of § 102-37.205(e).
§ 102-37.340
When may a SASP terminate a cooperative agreement?
You may terminate a cooperative agreement with GSA 60-calendar days after providing GSA with written notice. For other cooperative agreements with other authorized parties, you or the other party may terminate the agreement as mutually agreed. You must promptly notify GSA when such other agreements are terminated.

# Audits and Reviews
§ 102-37.345
When must a SASP be audited?
For each year in which a SASP receives $500,000 or more a year in surplus property or other Federal assistance, it must be audited in accordance with the Single Audit Act (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507) as implemented by Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133, “Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations” (for availability see 5 CFR 1310.3). GSA's donation program should be identified by Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number 39.003 when completing the required schedule of Federal assistance.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.350
Does coverage under the single audit process in OMB Circular A-133 exempt a SASP from other reviews of its program?
No, although SASPs are covered under the single audit process in OMB Circular A-133, from time to time the Government Accountability Office (GAO), GSA, or other authorized Federal activities may audit or review the operations of a SASP. GSA will notify the chief executive officer of the State of the reasons for a GSA audit. When requested, you must make available financial records and all other records of the SASP for inspection by representatives of GSA, GAO, or other authorized Federal activities.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.355
What obligations does a SASP have to ensure that donees meet Circular A-133 requirements?
SASPs, if they donate $500,000 or more in Federal property to a donee in a fiscal year, must ensure that the donee has an audit performed in accordance with Circular A-133. If a donee receives less than $500,000 in donated property, the SASP is not expected to assume responsibility for ensuring the donee meets audit requirements, beyond making sure the donee is aware that the requirements do exist. It is the donee's responsibility to identify and determine the amount of Federal assistance it has received and to arrange for audit coverage.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]

# Reports
§ 102-37.360
What reports must a SASP provide to GSA?
(a)
Quarterly report on donations.
Submit a GSA Form 3040, State Agency Monthly Donation Report of Surplus Personal Property, to the appropriate GSA regional office by the 25th day of the month following the quarter being reported. (OMB Control Number 3090-0112 has been assigned to this form.)
Forms and instructions for completing the form are available from your servicing GSA office.
(b)
Additional reports.
Make other reports GSA may require to carry out its discretionary authority to transfer surplus personal property for donation and to report to the Congress on the status and progress of the donation program.

# Liquidating a SASP
§ 102-37.365
What steps must a SASP take if the State decides to liquidate the agency?
Before suspending operations, a SASP must submit to GSA a liquidation plan that includes:
(a) Reasons for the liquidation;
(b) A schedule for liquidating the agency and the estimated date of termination;
(c) Method of disposing of property on hand under the requirements of this part;
(d) Method of disposing of the agency's physical and financial assets;
(e) Retention of all available records of the SASP for a 2-year period following liquidation; and
(f) Designation of another governmental entity to serve as the agency's successor in function until continuing obligations on property donated prior to the closing of the agency are fulfilled.
§ 102-37.370
Do liquidation plans require public notice?
Yes, a liquidation plan constitutes a major amendment of a SASP's plan of operation and, as such, requires public notice.

# Subpart E—Donations to Public Agencies, Service Educational Activities (SEAs), and Eligible Nonprofit Organizations
§ 102-37.375
How is the pronoun “you” used in this subpart?
The pronoun “you,” when used in this subpart, refers to the State agency for surplus property (SASP).
§ 102-37.380
What is the statutory authority for donations of surplus Federal property made under this subpart?
The following statutes provide the authority to donate surplus Federal property to different types of recipients:
(a) Section 549(d) of title 40, United States Code authorizes surplus property under the control of the Department of Defense (DOD) to be donated, through SASPs, to educational activities which are of special interest to the armed services (referred to in this part 102-37 as service educational activities or SEAs).
(b) Section 549(c)(3) of title 40, United States Code authorizes SASPs to donate surplus property to public agencies and to nonprofit educational or public health institutions, such as:
(1) Medical institutions.
(2) Hospitals.
(3) Clinics.
(4) Health centers.
(5) Drug abuse or alcohol treatment centers.
(6) Providers of assistance to homeless individuals.
(7) Providers of assistance to impoverished families and individuals.
(8) Schools.
(9) Colleges.
(10) Universities.
(11) Schools for the mentally disabled.
(12) Schools for the physically disabled.
(13) Child care centers.
(14) Radio and television stations licensed by the Federal Communications Commission as educational radio or educational television stations.
(15) Museums attended by the public.
(16) Libraries, serving free all residents of a community, district, State or region.
(17) Historic light stations as defined under section 308(e)(2) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470w-7(e)(2)), including a historic light station conveyed under subsection (b) of that section, notwithstanding the number of hours that the historic light station is open to the public.
(c) Section 213 of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3020d), authorizes donations of surplus
property to State or local government agencies, or nonprofit organizations or institutions, that receive Federal funding to conduct programs for older individuals.
(d) Section 549(c)(3)(C) of title 40, United States Code authorizes SASPs to donate property to veterans organizations, for purposes of providing services to veterans (as defined in section 101 of title 38). Eligible veterans organizations are those whose:
(1) Membership comprises substantially veterans; and
(2) Representatives are recognized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under section 5902 of title 38.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006; 72 FR 12572, Mar. 16, 2007; 79 FR 64514, Oct. 30, 2014]

# Donee Eligibility
§ 102-37.385
Who determines if a prospective donee applicant is eligible to receive surplus property under this subpart?
(a) For most public and nonprofit activities, the SASP determines if an applicant is eligible to receive property as a public agency, a nonprofit educational or public health institution, or for a program for older individuals. A SASP may request GSA assistance or guidance in making such determinations.
(b) For applicants that offer courses of instruction devoted to the military arts and sciences, the Defense Department will determine eligibility to receive surplus property through the SASP as a service educational activity or SEA.
§ 102-37.390
What basic criteria must an applicant meet before a SASP can qualify it for eligibility?
To qualify for donation program eligibility through a SASP, an applicant must:
(a) Conform to the definition of one of the categories of eligible entities listed in § 102-37.380 (see appendix C of this part for definitions);
(b) Demonstrate that it meets any approval, accreditation, or licensing requirements for operation of its program;
(c) Prove that it is a public agency or a nonprofit and tax-exempt organization under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code;
(d) Certify that it is not debarred, suspended, or excluded from any Federal program, including procurement programs; and
(e) Operate in compliance with applicable Federal nondiscrimination statutes.
§ 102-37.395
How can a SASP determine whether an applicant meets any required approval, accreditation, or licensing requirements?
A SASP may accept the following documentation as evidence that an applicant has met established standards for the operation of its educational or health program:
(a) A certificate or letter from a nationally recognized accrediting agency affirming the applicant meets the agency's standards and requirements.
(b) The applicant's appearance on a list with other similarly approved or accredited institutions or programs when that list is published by a State, regional, or national accrediting authority.
(c) Letters from State or local authorities (such as a board of health or a board of education) stating that the applicant meets the standards prescribed for approved or accredited institutions and organizations.
(d) In the case of educational activities, letters from three accredited or State-approved institutions that students from the applicant institution have been and are being accepted.
(e) In the case of public health institutions, licensing may be accepted as evidence of approval, provided the licensing authority prescribes the medical requirements and standards for the professional and technical services of the institution.
(f) The awarding of research grants to the institution by a recognized authority such as the National Institutes of Health, the National Institute of Education, or by similar national advisory council or organization.
§ 102-37.400
What type of eligibility information must a SASP maintain on donees?
In general, you must maintain the records required by your State plan to
document donee eligibility (see appendix B of this part). For SEAs, you must maintain separate records that include:
(a) Documentation verifying that the activity has been designated as eligible by DOD to receive surplus DOD property.
(b) A statement designating one or more donee representative(s) to act for the SEA in acquiring property.
(c) A listing of the types of property that are needed or have been authorized by DOD for use in the SEA's program.
§ 102-37.405
How often must a SASP update donee eligibility records?
You must update donee eligibility records as needed, but no less than every 3 years, to ensure that all documentation supporting the donee's eligibility is current and accurate. Annually, you must update files for nonprofit organizations whose eligibility depends on annual appropriations, annual licensing, or annual certification. Particular care must be taken to ensure that all records relating to the authority of donee representatives to receive and receipt for property, or to screen property at Federal facilities, are current.
§ 102-37.410
What must a SASP do if a donee fails to maintain its eligibility status?
If you determine that a donee has failed to maintain its eligibility status, you must terminate distribution of property to that donee, recover any usable property still under Federal restriction (as outlined in § 102-37.465), and take any other required compliance actions.
§ 102-37.415
What should a SASP do if an applicant appeals a negative eligibility determination?
If an applicant appeals a negative eligibility determination, forward complete documentation on the appeal request, including your comments and recommendations, to the applicable GSA regional office for review and coordination with GSA headquarters. GSA's decision will be final.

# Conditional Eligibility
§ 102-37.420
May a SASP grant conditional eligibility to applicants who would otherwise qualify as eligible donees, but have been unable to obtain approval, accreditation, or licensing because they are newly organized or their facilities are not yet constructed?
You may grant conditional eligibility to such an applicant provided it submits a statement from any required approving, accrediting, or licensing authority confirming it will be approved, accredited, or licensed. Conditional eligibility may be granted for a limited and reasonable time, not to exceed one year.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 64514, Oct. 30, 2014]
§ 102-37.425
May a SASP grant conditional eligibility to a not-for-profit organization whose tax-exempt status is pending?
No, under no circumstances may you grant conditional eligibility prior to receiving from the applicant a copy of a letter of determination by the Internal Revenue Service stating that the applicant is exempt from Federal taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
§ 102-37.430
What property can a SASP make available to a donee with conditional eligibility?
You may only make available surplus property that the donee can use immediately. You may not make available property that will only be used at a later date, for example, after the construction of the donee's facility has been completed. If property is provided to the donee with conditional eligibility, and the conditional eligibility lapses (see § 102-37.420), the property must be returned to the SASP for redistribution or disposal.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 64514, Oct. 30, 2014]

# Terms and Conditions of Donation
§ 102-37.435
For what purposes may donees acquire and use surplus property?
A donee may acquire and use surplus property only for the following authorized purposes:
(a)
Public purposes.
A public agency that acquires surplus property through a SASP must use such property to carry out or to promote one or more public purposes for the people it serves.
(b)
Educational and public health purposes, including related research.
A nonprofit educational or public health institution must use surplus property for education or public health, including research for either purpose and assistance to the homeless or impoverished. While this does not preclude the use of donated surplus property for a related or subsidiary purpose incident to the institution's overall program, the property may not be used for a nonrelated or commercial purpose.
(c)
Programs for older individuals.
An entity that conducts a program for older individuals must use donated surplus property to provide services that are necessary for the general welfare of older individuals, such as social services, transportation services, nutrition services, legal services, and multipurpose senior centers.
§ 102-37.440
May donees acquire property for exchange?
No, a donee may not acquire property with the intent to sell or trade it for other assets.
§ 102-37.445
What certifications must a donee make before receiving property?
Prior to a SASP releasing property to a donee, the donee must certify that:
(a) It is a public agency or a nonprofit organization meeting the requirements of the Property Act and/or regulations of GSA;
(b) It is acquiring the property for its own use and will use the property for authorized purposes;
(c) Funds are available to pay all costs and charges incident to the donation;
(d) It will comply with the nondiscrimination regulations issued under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-4), section 122 of title 40, United States Code, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681-1688), as amended, and section 303 of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107); and
(e) It isn't currently debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or otherwise excluded from receiving the property.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.450
What agreements must a donee make?
Before a SASP may release property to a donee, the donee must agree to the following conditions:
(a) The property is acquired on an “as is, where is” basis, without warranty of any kind, and it will hold the Government harmless from any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the donation of the property, its use, or final disposition.
(b) It will return to the SASP, at its own expense, any donated property:
(1) That is not placed in use for the purposes for which it was donated within 1 year of donation; or
(2) Which ceases to be used for such purposes within 1 year after being placed in use.
(c) It will comply with the terms and conditions imposed by the SASP on the use of any item of property having a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more and any passenger motor vehicle or other donated item. (Not applicable to SEAs.)
(d) It agrees that, upon execution of the SASP distribution document, it has conditional title only to the property during the applicable period of restriction. Full title to the property will vest in the donee only after the donee has met all of the requirements of this part.
(e) It will comply with conditions imposed by GSA, if any, requiring special handling or use limitations on donated property.
(f) It will use the property for an authorized purpose during the period of restriction.
(g) It will obtain permission from the SASP before selling, trading, leasing, loaning, bailing, cannibalizing, encumbering or otherwise disposing of property during the period of restriction, or removing it permanently for use outside the State.
(h) It will report to the SASP on the use, condition, and location of donated property, and on other pertinent matters as the SASP may require from time to time.
(i) If an insured loss of the property occurs during the period of restriction, GSA or the SASP (depending on which agency has imposed the restriction) will be entitled to reimbursement out of the insurance proceeds of an amount equal to the unamortized portion of the fair market value of the damaged or destroyed item.

# Special Handling or Use Conditions
§ 102-37.455
On what categories of surplus property has GSA imposed special handling conditions or use limitations?
GSA has imposed special handling or processing requirements on the property discussed in this section. GSA may, on a case-by-case basis, prescribe additional restrictions for handling or using these items or prescribe special processing requirements on items in addition to those listed in this section.
(a)
Aircraft and vessels.
The requirements of this section apply to the donation of any fixed- or rotary-wing aircraft and donable vessels that are 50 feet or more in length, having a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more, regardless of the purpose for which donated. Such aircraft or vessels may be donated to public agencies and eligible nonprofit activities provided the aircraft or vessel is not classified for reasons of national security and any lethal characteristics are removed. The following table provides locations of other policies and procedures governing aircraft and vessels:
For. . .
See. . .
(1) Policies and procedures governing the donation of aircraft parts
Part 102-33, subpart D, of this chapter.
(2) Documentation needed by GSA to process requests for aircraft or vessels
§ 102-37.225.
(3) Special terms, conditions, and restrictions imposed on aircraft and vessels
§ 102-37.460.
(4) Guidelines on preparing letters of intent for aircraft or vessels
§ 102-37.230.
(b)
Alcohol.
(1) When tax-free or specially denatured alcohol is requested for donation, the donee must have a special permit issued by the Assistant Regional Commissioner of the appropriate regional office, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), Department of the Justice, in order to acquire the property. Include the ATF use-permit number on the SF 123, Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property.
(2) You may not store tax-free or specially denatured alcohol in SASP facilities. You must make arrangements for this property to be shipped or transported directly from the holding agency to the designated donee.
(c)
Hazardous materials, firearms, and property with unsafe or dangerous characteristics.
For hazardous materials, firearms, and property with unsafe or dangerous characteristics, see part 101-42 of this title.
(d)
Franked and penalty mail envelopes and official letterhead.
Franked and penalty mail envelopes and official letterhead may not be donated without the SASP certifying that all Federal Government markings will be obliterated before use.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.460
What special terms and conditions apply to the donation of aircraft and vessels?
The following special terms and conditions apply to the donation of aircraft and vessels:
(a) There must be a period of restriction which will expire after the aircraft or vessel has been used for the purpose
stated in the letter of intent (see § 102-37.230) for a period of 5 years, except that the period of restriction for a combat-configured aircraft is in perpetuity.
(b) The donee of an aircraft must apply to the FAA for registration of an aircraft intended for flight use within 30 calendar days of receipt of the aircraft. The donee of a vessel must, within 30 calendar days of receipt of the vessel, apply for documentation of the vessel under applicable Federal, State, and local laws and must record each document with the U.S. Coast Guard at the port of documentation. The donee's application for registration or documentation must include a fully executed copy of the conditional transfer document and a copy of its letter of intent. The donee must provide the SASP and GSA with a copy of the FAA registration (and a copy of its FAA Standard Airworthiness Certificate if the aircraft is to be flown as a civil aircraft) or Coast Guard documentation.
(c) The aircraft or vessel must be used solely in accordance with the executed conditional transfer document and the plan of utilization set forth in the donee's letter of intent, unless the donee has amended the letter, and it has been approved in writing by the SASP and GSA and a copy of the amendment recorded with FAA or the U.S. Coast Guard, as applicable.
(d) In the event any of the terms and conditions imposed by the conditional transfer document are breached, title may revert to the Government. GSA may require the donee to return the aircraft or vessel or pay for any unauthorized disposal, transaction, or use.
(e) If, during the period of restriction, the aircraft or vessel is no longer needed by the donee, the donee must promptly notify the SASP and request disposal instructions. A SASP may not issue disposal instructions without the prior written concurrence of GSA.
(f) Military aircraft previously used for ground instruction and/or static display (Category B aircraft, as designated by DOD) or that are combat-configured (Category C aircraft) may not be donated for flight purposes.
(g) For all aircraft donated for nonflight use, the donee must, within 30 calendar days of receipt of the aircraft, turn over to the SASP the remaining aircraft historical records (except the records of the major components/life limited parts; e.g., engines, transmissions, rotor blades, etc., necessary to substantiate their reuse). The SASP in turn must transmit the records to GSA for forwarding to the FAA.

# Release of Restrictions
§ 102-37.465
May a SASP modify or release any of the terms and conditions of donation?
You may alter or grant releases from State-imposed restrictions, provided your State plan of operation sets forth the standards by which such actions will be taken. You may not grant releases from, or amendments or corrections to:
(a) The terms and conditions you are required by the Property Act to impose on the use of passenger motor vehicles and any item of property having a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more.
(b) Any special handling condition or use limitation imposed by GSA, except with the prior written approval of GSA.
(c) The statutory requirement that usable property be returned by the donee to the SASP if the property has not been placed in use for the purposes for which it was donated within 1 year of donation or ceases to be used by the donee for those purposes within 1 year of being placed in use, except that:
(1) You may grant authority to the donee to cannibalize property items subject to this requirement when you determine that such action will result in increased use of the property and that the proposed action meets the standards prescribed in your plan of operation.
(2) You may, with the written concurrence of GSA, grant donees:
(i) A time extension to place property into use if the delay in putting the property into use was beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the donee.
(ii) Authority to trade in one donated item for one like item having similar use potential.
§ 102-37.470
At what point may restrictions be released on property that has been authorized for cannibalization?
Property authorized for cannibalization must remain under the period of restriction imposed by the transfer/distribution document until the proposed cannibalization is completed. Components resulting from the cannibalization, which have a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more, must remain under the restrictions imposed by the transfer/distribution document. Components with a unit acquisition cost of less than $5,000 may be released upon cannibalization from the additional restrictions imposed by the State. However, these components must continue to be used or be otherwise disposed of in accordance with this part.
§ 102-37.475
What are the requirements for releasing restrictions on property being considered for exchange?
GSA must consent to the exchange of donated property under Federal restrictions or special handling conditions. The donee must have used the donated item for its acquired purpose for a minimum of 6 months prior to being considered for exchange, and it must be demonstrated that the exchange will result in increased utilization value to the donee. As a condition of approval of the exchange, the item being exchanged must have remained in compliance with the terms and conditions of the donation. Otherwise, § 102-37.485 applies. The item acquired by the donee must be:
(a) Made subject to the period of restriction remaining on the item exchanged; and
(b) Of equal or greater value than the item exchanged.

# Compliance and Utilization
§ 102-37.480
What must a SASP do to ensure that property is used for the purpose(s) for which it was donated?
You must conduct utilization reviews, as provided in your plan of operation, to ensure that donees are using surplus property during the period of restriction for the purposes for which it was donated. You must fully document your efforts and report all instances of noncompliance (misuse or mishandling of property) to GSA.
§ 102-37.485
What actions must a SASP take if a review or other information indicates noncompliance with donation terms and conditions?
If a review or other information indicates noncompliance with donation terms and conditions, you must:
(a) Promptly investigate any suspected failure to comply with the conditions of donated property;
(b) Notify GSA immediately where there is evidence or allegation of fraud, wrongdoing by a screener, or nonuse, misuse, or unauthorized disposal or destruction of donated property;
(c) Temporarily defer any further donations of property to any donee to be investigated for noncompliance allegations until such time as the investigation has been completed and:
(1) A determination made that the allegations are unfounded and the deferment is removed.
(2) The allegations are substantiated and the donee is proposed for suspension or debarment; and
(d) Take steps to correct the noncompliance or otherwise enforce the conditions imposed on use of the property if a donee is found to be in noncompliance. Enforcement of compliance may involve:
(1) Ensuring the property is used by the present donee for the purpose for which it was donated.
(2) Recovering the property from the donee for:
(i) Redistribution to another donee within the State;
(ii) Transfer through GSA to another SASP; or
(iii) Transfer through GSA to a Federal agency.
(3) Recovering fair market value or the proceeds of disposal in cases of unauthorized disposal or destruction.
(4) Recovering fair rental value for property in cases where the property has been loaned or leased to an ineligible user or used for an unauthorized purpose.
(5) Disposing of by public sale property no longer suitable, usable, or necessary for donation.
§ 102-37.490
When must a SASP coordinate with GSA on compliance actions?
You must coordinate with GSA before selling or demanding payment of the fair market or fair rental value of donated property that is:
(a) Subject to any special handling condition or use limitation imposed by GSA (see § 102-37.455); or
(b) Not properly used within 1 year of donation or which ceases to be properly used within 1 year of being placed in use.
§ 102-37.495
How must a SASP handle funds derived from compliance actions?
You must handle funds derived from compliance actions as follows:
(a)
Enforcement of Federal restrictions.
You must promptly remit to GSA any funds derived from the enforcement of compliance involving a violation of any Federal restriction, for deposit in the Treasury of the United States. You must also submit any supporting documentation indicating the source of the funds and essential background information.
(b)
Enforcement of State restrictions.
You may retain any funds derived from a compliance action involving violation of any State-imposed restriction and use such funds as provided in your State plan of operation.

# Returns and Reimbursement
§ 102-37.500
May a donee receive reimbursement for its donation expenses when unneeded property is returned to the SASP?
When a donee returns unneeded property to a SASP, the donee may be reimbursed for all or part of the initial cost of any repairs required to make the property usable if:
(a) The property is transferred to a Federal agency or sold for the benefit of the U.S. Government;
(b) No breach of the terms and conditions of donation has occurred; and
(c) GSA authorizes the reimbursement.
§ 102-37.505
How does a donee apply for and receive reimbursement for unneeded property returned to a SASP?
If the donee has incurred repair expenses for property it is returning to a SASP and wishes to be reimbursed for them, it will inform the SASP of this. The SASP will recommend for GSA approval a reimbursement amount, taking into consideration the benefit the donee has received from the use of the property and making appropriate deductions for that use.
(a) If this property is subsequently transferred to a Federal agency, the receiving agency will be required to reimburse the donee as a condition of the transfer.
(b) If the property is sold, the donee will be reimbursed from the sales proceeds.

# Special Provisions Pertaining to SEAs
§ 102-37.510
Are there special requirements for donating property to SEAs?
Yes, only DOD-generated property may be donated to SEAs. When donating DOD property to an eligible SEA, SASPs must observe any restrictions the sponsoring Military Service may have imposed on the types of property the SEA may receive.
§ 102-37.515
Do SEAs have a priority over other SASP donees for DOD property?
Yes, SEAs have a priority over other SASP donees for DOD property, but only if DOD requests GSA to allocate surplus DOD property through a SASP for donation to a specific SEA. In such cases, DOD would be expected to clearly identify the items in question and briefly justify the request.

# Subpart F—Donations to Public Airports
§ 102-37.520
What is the authority for public airport donations?
The authority for public airport donations is 49 U.S.C. 47151. 49 U.S.C. 47151 authorizes executive agencies to give priority consideration to requests from a public airport (as defined in 49
U.S.C. 47102) for the donation of surplus property if the Department of Transportation (DOT) considers the property appropriate for airport purposes and GSA approves the donation.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.525
What should a holding agency do if it wants a public airport to receive priority consideration for excess personal property it has reported to GSA?
A holding agency interested in giving priority consideration to a public airport should annotate its reporting document to make GSA aware of this interest. In an addendum to the document, include the name of the requesting airport, specific property requested, and a brief description of how the airport intends to use the property.
§ 102-37.530
What are FAA's responsibilities in the donation of surplus property to public airports?
In the donation of surplus property to public airports, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), acting under delegation from the DOT, is responsible for:
(a) Determining the property requirements of any State, political subdivision of a State, or tax-supported organization for public airport use;
(b) Setting eligibility requirements for public airports and making determinations of eligibility;
(c) Certifying that property listed on a transfer request is desirable or necessary for public airport use;
(d) Advising GSA of FAA officials authorized to certify transfer requests and notifying GSA of any changes in signatory authority;
(e) Determining and enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions under which surplus personal property is transferred for public airport use; and
(f) Authorizing public airports to visit holding agencies for the purpose of screening and selecting property for transfer. This responsibility includes:
(1) Issuing a screening pass or letter of authorization to only those persons who are qualified to screen.
(2) Maintaining a current record (to include names, addresses, and telephone numbers, and additional identifying information such as driver's license or social security numbers) of screeners operating under FAA authority and making such records available to GSA upon request.
(3) Recovering any expired or invalid screener authorizations.
§ 102-37.535
What information must FAA provide to GSA on its administration of the public airport donation program?
So that GSA has information on which to base its discretionary authority to approve the donation of surplus personal property, FAA must:
(a) Provide copies of internal instructions that outline the scope of FAA's oversight program for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of transfer; and
(b) Report any compliance actions involving donations to public airports.

# Subpart G—Donations to the American National Red Cross
§ 102-37.540
What is the authority for donations to the American National Red Cross?
Section 551 of title 40, United States Code authorizes GSA to donate to the Red Cross, for charitable use, such property as was originally derived from or through the Red Cross.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.545
What type of property may the American National Red Cross receive?
The Red Cross may receive surplus gamma globulin, dried plasma, albumin, antihemophilic globulin, fibrin foam, surgical dressings, or other products or materials it processed, produced, or donated to a Federal agency.
§ 102-37.550
What steps must the American National Red Cross take to acquire surplus property?
Upon receipt of information from GSA regarding the availability of surplus property for donation, the Red Cross will:
(a) Have 21 calendar days to inspect the property or request it without inspection; and
(b) Be responsible for picking up property donated to it or arranging and paying for its shipment.
§ 102-37.555
What happens to property the American National Red Cross does not request?
Property the Red Cross declines to request will be offered to SASPs for distribution to eligible donees. If such property is transferred, GSA will require the SASP to ensure that all Red Cross labels or other Red Cross identifications are obliterated or removed from the property before it is used.

# Subpart H—Donations to Public Bodies in Lieu of Abandonment/Destruction
§ 102-37.560
What is a public body?
A public body is any department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or local government; any Indian tribe; or any agency of the Federal Government.
§ 102-37.565
What is the authority for donations to public bodies?
Section 527 of title 40, United States Code authorizes the abandonment, destruction, or donation to public bodies of property which has no commercial value or for which the estimated cost of continued care and handling would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]
§ 102-37.570
What type of property may a holding agency donate under this subpart?
Only that property a holding agency has made a written determination to abandon or destroy (see process in part 102-36 of this chapter) may be donated under this subpart. A holding agency may not donate property that requires destruction for health, safety, or security reasons. When disposing of hazardous materials and other dangerous property, a holding agency must comply with all applicable laws and regulations and any special disposal requirements in part 101-42 of this title.
§ 102-37.575
Is there a special form for holding agencies to process donations?
There is no special form for holding agencies to process donations. A holding agency may use any document that meets its agency's needs for maintaining an audit trail of the transaction.
§ 102-37.580
Who is responsible for costs associated with the donation?
The recipient public body is responsible for paying the disposal costs incident to the donation, such as packing, preparation for shipment, demilitarization (as defined in § 102-36.40 of this chapter), loading, and transportation to its site.

# Subpart I—Transfer of Vehicle Title to a Donee

# Source:
79 FR 64514, Oct. 30, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-37.585
In transferring donated surplus vehicles, what is the responsibility of the holding agency?
(a) The holding agency is responsible for preparing Standard Form 97,
The United States Government Certificate to Obtain Title to a Vehicle
(SF 97) upon notification by GSA that a donee has been identified. The SF 97 may be prepared by GSA if mutually agreed upon by the holding agency and GSA. The holding agency is designated as the “transferor.”
(b) If the holding agency authorizes or requires any other entity, including a contractor or grantee, to complete this SF 97, the holding agency must first ensure compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act.
(c) The SF 97 is a serially numbered, controlled form, stock number 7540-00-634-4047, which can be obtained by executive agencies from GSA Global Supply or online at
www.gsaglobalsupply.gsa.gov.
Proper precautions shall be exercised by the agency to prevent blank copies of the SF 97 from being obtained by unauthorized persons.
§ 102-37.590
In transferring donated surplus vehicles, what is the responsibility of the SASP?
The SASP is responsible for facilitating the transfer of the surplus vehicle to the donee in accordance with this part. The SASP should not sign the SF 97 as “transferee” unless the SASP is the donee.
§ 102-37.595
When transferring donated surplus vehicles, what is the responsibility of the donee?
The donee is responsible for processing the SF 97 in accordance with state licensing and titling authorities. The donee signs the SF 97 as “transferee” upon receipt of the surplus motor vehicle. The donee is responsible for notifying the SASP if a SF 97 is not provided by the Government.
§ 102-37.600
When does title to a surplus donated vehicle change hands?
Title to the vehicle rests with the holding agency until the SF 97 is signed by the donee upon receipt of the surplus motor vehicle. (If applicable under the terms of the donation, the title will be conditional until the end of the period of restriction).
Pt. 102-37, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 102-37—Miscellaneous Donation Statutes
The following is a listing of statutes which authorize donations which do not require GSA's approval:
Statute:
10 U.S.C. 2572.
Donor Agency:
Any military department (Army, Navy, and Air Force) or the Coast Guard.
Type of Property:
Books, manuscripts, works of art, historical artifacts, drawings, plans, models, and condemned or obsolete combat material.
Eligible Recipients:
Municipal corporations; soldiers' monument associations; museums, historical societies, or historical institutions of a State or foreign nation; incorporated museums that are operated and maintained for educational purposes only and the charters of which denies them the right to operate for profit; posts of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States or of the American Legion or a unit of any other recognized war veterans' association; local or national units of any war veterans' association of a foreign nation which is recognized by the national government of that nation or a principal subdivision of that nation; and posts of the Sons of Veterans Reserve.
Statute:
10 U.S.C. 7306.
Donor Agency:
Department of the Navy.
Type of Property:
Any vessel stricken from the Naval Vessel Register or any captured vessel in the possession of the Navy.
Eligible Recipients:
States, Commonwealths, or possessions of the United States; the District of Columbia; and not-for-profit or nonprofit entities.
Statute:
10 U.S.C. 7541.
Donor Agency:
Department of the Navy.
Type of Property:
Obsolete material not needed for naval purposes.
Eligible Recipients:
Sea scouts of the Boy Scouts of America; Naval Sea Cadet Corps; and the Young Marines of the Marine Corps League.
Statute:
10 U.S.C. 7545.
Donor Agency:
Department of the Navy.
Type of Property:
Captured, condemned, or obsolete ordnance material, books, manuscripts, works of art, drawings, plans, and models; other condemned or obsolete material, trophies, and flags; and other material of historic interest not needed by the Navy.
Eligible Recipients:
States, territories, commonwealths, or possessions of the United States, or political subdivisions or municipal corporations thereof; the District of Columbia; libraries; historical societies; educational institutions whose graduates or students fought in World War I or World War II; soldiers' monument associations; State museums; museums operated and maintained for educational purposes only, whose charter denies it the right to operate for profit; posts of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States; American Legion posts; recognized war veterans' associations; or posts of the Sons of Veterans Reserve.
Statute:
14 U.S.C. 641(a).
Donor Agency:
Coast Guard.
Type of Property:
Obsolete or other material not needed for the Coast Guard.
Eligible Recipients:
Coast Guard Auxiliary; sea scout service of the Boy Scouts of America; and public bodies or private organizations not organized for profit.
Pt. 102-37, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 102-37—Elements of a State Plan of Operation
The following is the information and assurances that must be included in a SASP's plan of operation:
State Plan Requirements
Regarding . . .
The plan must . . .
(a) Designation of a SASP
(1) Name the State agency that will be responsible for administering the plan.
(2) Describe the responsibilities vested in the agency which must include the authorities to acquire, warehouse and distribute surplus property to eligible donees, carry out other requirements of the State plan, and provide details concerning the organization of the agency, including supervision, staffing, structure, and physical facilities.
(3) Indicate the organizational status of the agency within the State governmental structure and the title of the State official who directly supervises the State agent.
(b) Operational authority
Include copies of existing State statutes and/or executive orders relative to the operational authority of the SASP. Where express statutory authority does not exist or is ambiguous, or where authority exists by virtue of executive order, the plan must include also the opinion of the State's Attorney General regarding the existence of such authority.
(c) Inventory control and accounting system
(1) Require the SASP to use a management control and accounting system that effectively governs the utilization, inventory control, accountability, and disposal of property.
(2) Provide a detailed explanation of the inventory control and accounting system that the SASP will use.
(3) Provide that property retained by the SASP to perform its functions be maintained on separate records from those of donable property.
(d) Return of donated property
(1) Require the SASP to provide for the return of donated property from the donee, at the donee's expense, if the property is still usable as determined by the SASP; and
(i) The donee has not placed the property into use for the purpose for which it was donated within 1 year of donation; or
(ii) The donee ceases to use the property within 1 year after placing it in use.
(2) Specify that return of property can be accomplished by:
(i) Physical return to the SASP facility, if required by the SASP.
(ii) Retransfer directly to another donee, SASP, or
Federal agency, as required by the SASP.
(iii) Disposal (by sale or other means) as directed by the SASP.
(3) Set forth procedures to accomplish property returns to the SASP, retransfers to other organizations, or disposition by sale, abandonment, or destruction.
(e) Financing and service charges
(1) Set forth the means and methods for financing the SASP. When the State authorizes the SASP to assess and collect service charges from participating donees to cover direct and reasonable indirect costs of its activities, the method of establishing the charges must be set forth in the plan.
(2) Affirm that service charges, if assessed, are fair and equitable and based on services performed (or paid for) by the SASP, such as screening, packing, crating, removal, and transportation. When the SASP provides minimal services in connection with the acquisition of property, except for document processing and other administrative actions, the State plan must provide for minimal charges to be assessed in such cases and include the bases of computation.
(3) Provide that property made available to nonprofit providers of assistance to homeless individuals be distributed at a nominal cost for care and handling of the property.
(4) Set forth how funds accumulated from service charges, or from other sources such as sales or compliance proceeds are to be used for the operation of the SASP and the benefit of participating donees.
(5) Affirm, if service charge funds are to be deposited or invested, that such deposits or investments are permitted by State law and set forth the types of depositories and/or investments contemplated.
(6) Cite State authority to use service charges to acquire or improve SASP facilities and set forth disposition to be made of any financial assets realized upon the sale or other disposal of the facilities.
(7) Indicate if the SASP intends to maintain a working capital reserve. If one is to be maintained, the plan should provide the provisions and limitations for it.
(8) State if refunds of service charges are to be made to donees when there is an excess in the SASP's working capital reserve and provide details of how such refunds are to be made, such as a reduction in service charges or a cash refund, prorated in an equitable manner.
(f) Terms and conditions on donated property
(1) Require the SASP to identify terms and conditions that will be imposed on the donee for any item of donated property with a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more and any passenger motor vehicle.
(2) Provide that the SASP may impose reasonable terms and conditions on the use of other donated property. If the SASP elects to impose additional terms and conditions, it should list them in the plan. If the SASP wishes to provide for amending, modifying, or releasing any terms or conditions it has elected to impose, it must state in the plan the standards it will use to grant such amendments, modifications or releases.
(3) Provide that the SASP will impose on the donation of property, regardless of unit acquisition cost, such conditions involving special handling or use limitations as GSA may determine necessary because of the characteristics of the property.
(g) Nonutilized or undistributed property
Provide that, subject to GSA approval, property in the possession of the SASP which donees in the State cannot use will be disposed of by:
(1) Transfer to another SASP or Federal agency.
(2) Sale.
(3) Abandonment or destruction.
(4) Other arrangements.
(h) Fair and equitable distribution
(1) Provide that the SASP will make fair and equitable distribution of property to eligible donees in the State based on their relative needs and resources and ability to use the property.
(2) Set forth the policies and detailed procedures for effecting a prompt, fair, and equitable distribution.
(3) Require that the SASP, insofar as practicable, select property requested by eligible donees and, if requested by the donee, arrange for shipment of the property directly to the donee.
(i) Eligibility
(1) Set forth procedures for the SASP to determine the eligibility of applicants for the donation of surplus personal property.
(2) Provide for donee eligibility records to include at a minimum:
(i) Legal name and address of the donee.
(ii) Status of the donee as a public agency or as an eligible nonprofit activity.
(iii) Details on the scope of the donee's program.
(iv) Proof of tax exemption under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code if the donee is nonprofit.
(v) Proof that the donee is approved, accredited, licensed, or meets any other legal requirement for operation of its program(s).
(vi) Financial information.
(vii) Written authorization by the donee's governing body or chief administrative officer designating at least one person to act for the donee in acquiring property.
(viii) Assurance that the donee will comply with GSA's regulations on nondiscrimination.
(ix) Types of property needed.
(j) Compliance and utilization
(1) Provide that the SASP conduct utilization reviews for donee compliance with the terms, conditions, reservations, and restrictions imposed by GSA and the SASP on property having a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more and any passenger motor vehicle.
(2) Provide for the reviews to include a survey of donee compliance with any special handling conditions or use limitations imposed on items of property by GSA.
(3) Set forth the proposed frequency of such reviews and provide adequate assurances that the SASP will take effective action to correct noncompliance or otherwise enforce such terms, conditions, reservations, and restrictions.
(4) Require the SASP to prepare reports on utilization reviews and compliance actions and provide assurance that the SASP will initiate appropriate investigations of alleged fraud in the acquisition of donated property or misuse of such property.
(k) Consultation with advisory bodies and public and private groups
(1) Provide for consultation with advisory bodies and public and private groups which can assist the SASP in determining the relative needs and resources of donees, the proposed utilization of surplus property by eligible donees, and how distribution of surplus property can be effected to fill existing needs of donees.
(2) Provide details of how the SASP will accomplish such consultation.
(l) Audit
(1) Provide for periodic internal audits of the operations and financial affairs of the SASP.
(2) Provide for compliance with the external audit requirements of Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-133, “Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations” (available at
www.whitehouse.gov/OMB
), and make provisions for the SASP to furnish GSA with:
(i) Two copies of any audit report made pursuant to the Circular, or with two copies of those sections that pertain to the Federal donation program.
(ii) An outline of all corrective actions and scheduled completion dates for the actions.
(3) Provide for cooperation in GSA or Comptroller General conducted audits.
(m) Cooperative agreements
If the SASP wishes to enter into, renew, or revise cooperative agreements with GSA or other Federal agencies:
(1) Affirm the SASP's intentions to enter into cooperative agreements.
(2) Cite the authority for entering into such agreements.
(n) Liquidation
Provide for the SASP to submit a liquidation plan prior to termination of the SASP activities if the State decides to dissolve the SASP.
(o) Forms
Include copies of distribution documents used by the SASP.
(p) Records
Affirm that all official records of the SASP will be retained for a minimum of 3 years, except that:
(1) Records involving property subject to restrictions for more than 2 years must be kept 1 year beyond the specified period of restriction.
(2) Records involving property with perpetual restriction must be retained in perpetuity.
(3) Records involving property in noncompliance status must be retained for at least 1 year after the noncompliance case is closed.
Pt. 102-37, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 102-37—Glossary of Terms for Determining Eligibility of Public Agencies and Nonprofit Organizations
The following is a glossary of terms for determining eligibility of public agencies and nonprofit organizations:
Accreditation
means the status of public recognition that an accrediting agency grants to an institution or program that meets the agency's standards and requirements.
Accredited
means approval by a recognized accrediting board or association on a regional, State, or national level, such as a State board of education or health; the American Hospital Association; a regional or national accrediting association for universities, colleges, or secondary schools; or another recognized accrediting association.
Approved
means recognition and approval by the State department of education, State department of health, or other appropriate authority where no recognized accrediting board, association, or other authority exists for the purpose of making an accreditation. For an educational institution or an educational program, approval must relate to academic or instructional standards established by the appropriate authority. For a public health institution or program, approval must relate to the medical requirements and standards for the professional and technical services of the institution established by the appropriate authority.
Child care center
means a public or nonprofit facility where educational, social, health, and nutritional services are provided to children through age 14 (or as prescribed by State law) and that is approved or licensed by the State or other appropriate authority as a child day care center or child care center.
Clinic
means an approved public or nonprofit facility organized and operated for the primary purpose of providing outpatient public health services and includes customary related services such as laboratories and treatment rooms.
College
means an approved or accredited public or nonprofit institution of higher learning offering organized study courses and credits leading to a baccalaureate or higher degree.
Conservation
means a program or programs carried out or promoted by a public agency for public purposes involving directly or indirectly the protection, maintenance, development, and restoration of the natural resources of a given political area. These resources include but are not limited to the air, land, forests, water, rivers, streams, lakes and ponds, minerals, and animals, fish and other wildlife.
Drug abuse or alcohol treatment center
means a clinic or medical institution that provides for the diagnosis, treatment, or rehabilitation of alcoholics or drug addicts. These centers must have on their staffs, or available on a regular visiting basis, qualified professionals in the fields of medicine, psychology, psychiatry, or rehabilitation.
Economic development
means a program(s) carried out or promoted by a public agency for public purposes to improve the opportunities of a given political area for the establishment or expansion of industrial, commercial, or agricultural plants or facilities and which otherwise assist in the creation of long-term employment opportunities in the area or primarily benefit the unemployed or those with low incomes.
Education
means a program(s) to develop and promote the training, general knowledge, or academic, technical, and vocational skills and cultural attainments of individuals in a community or given political area. Public educational programs may include public school systems and supporting facilities such as centralized administrative or service facilities.
Educational institution
means an approved, accredited, or licensed public or nonprofit institution, facility, entity, or organization conducting educational programs or research for educational purposes, such as a child care center, school, college, university, school for the mentally or physically disabled, or an educational radio or television station.
Educational radio or television station
means a public or nonprofit radio or television station licensed by the Federal Communications Commission and operated exclusively for noncommercial educational purposes.
Health center
means an approved public or nonprofit facility that provides public health services, including related facilities such as diagnostic and laboratory facilities and clinics.
Historic light station
means a historic light station as defined under section 308(e)(2) of the National Historic Preservation Act 16 U.S.C. 470w-7(e)2), including a historic light station conveyed under subsection (b) of that section, notwithstanding the number of hours that the historic light station is open to the public.
Homeless individual
means:
(1) An individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence, or who has a primary nighttime residence that is:
(i) A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designed to provide temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate shelters, and transitional housing for the mentally ill);
(ii) An institution that provides a temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized; or
(iii) A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings.
(2) For purposes of this part, the term
homeless individual
does not include any individual imprisoned or otherwise detained pursuant to an Act of the Congress or a State law.
Hospital
means an approved or accredited public or nonprofit institution providing public health services primarily for inpatient medical or surgical care of the sick and injured and includes related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, and staff offices.
Library
means a public or nonprofit facility providing library services free to all residents of a community, district, State, or region.
Licensed
means recognition and approval by the appropriate State or local authority approving institutions or programs in specialized areas. Licensing generally relates to established minimum public standards of safety, sanitation, staffing, and equipment as they relate to the construction, maintenance, and operation of a health or educational facility, rather than to the academic, instructional, or medical standards for these institutions.
Medical institution
means an approved, accredited, or licensed public or nonprofit institution, facility, or organization whose primary function is the furnishing of public health and medical services to the public or promoting public health through the conduct of research, experiments, training, or demonstrations related to cause, prevention, and methods of diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries. The term includes, but is not limited to, hospitals, clinics, alcohol and drug abuse treatment centers, public health or treatment centers, research and health centers, geriatric centers, laboratories, medical schools, dental schools, nursing schools, and similar institutions. The term does not include institutions primarily engaged in domiciliary care, although a separate medical facility within such a domiciliary institution may qualify as a
medical institution.
Museum
means a public agency or nonprofit educational or public health institution that is organized on a permanent basis for essentially educational or aesthetic purposes and which, using a professional staff, owns or uses tangible objects, either animate or inanimate; and cares for these objects. A museum is considered to be attended by the public if the museum, at minimum, accedes to any request submitted for access during business hours. For the purposes of this definition, a museum uses a professional staff if it employs at least one full-time staff member or the equivalent, whether paid or unpaid, primarily engaged in the acquisition, care, or public exhibition of objects owned or used by the museum.
Nationally recognized accrediting agency
means an accrediting agency that the Department of Education recognizes under 34 CFR part 600. (For a list of accrediting agencies, see the Department's web site at
http://www.ed.gov/admins/finaid/accred
)
Nonprofit
means not organized for profit and exempt from Federal income tax under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501).
Parks and recreation
means a program(s) carried out or promoted by a public agency for public purposes that involve directly or indirectly the acquisition, development, improvement, maintenance, and protection of park and recreational facilities for the residents of a given political area.
Program for older individuals
means a program conducted by a State or local government agency or nonprofit activity that receives funds appropriated for services or programs for older individuals under the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended, under title IV or title XX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), or under titles VIII and X of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2991
et seq.
) and the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.
).
Provider of assistance to homeless individuals
means a public agency or a nonprofit institution or organization that operates a program which provides assistance such as food, shelter, or other services to homeless individuals.
Provider of assistance to impoverished families and individuals
means a public or nonprofit organization whose primary function is to provide money, goods, or services to families or individuals whose annual incomes are below the poverty line (as defined in section 673 of the Community Services Block Grant Act) (42 U.S.C. 9902). Providers include food banks, self-help housing groups, and organizations providing services such as the following: Health care; medical transportation; scholarships and tuition assistance; tutoring and literacy instruction; job training and placement; employment counseling; child care assistance; meals or other nutritional support; clothing distribution; home construction or repairs; utility or rental assistance; and legal counsel.
Public agency
means any State; political subdivision thereof, including any unit of local government or economic development district; any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof, including instrumentalities created by compact or other agreement between States or political subdivisions; multijurisdictional substate districts established by or pursuant to State law; or any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community located on a State reservation.
Public health
means a program(s) to promote, maintain, and conserve the public's health by providing health services to individuals and/or by conducting research, investigations, examinations, training, and demonstrations. Public health services may include but are not limited to the control of communicable diseases, immunization, maternal and child health programs, sanitary engineering, sewage treatment and disposal, sanitation inspection and supervision, water purification and distribution, air pollution control, garbage and trash disposal, and the control and elimination of disease-carrying animals and insects.
Public health institution
means an approved, accredited, or licensed public or nonprofit institution, facility, or organization conducting a public health program(s) such as a hospital, clinic, health center, or medical institution, including research for such programs, the services of which are available to the public.
Public purpose
means a program(s) carried out by a public agency that is legally authorized in accordance with the laws of the State or political subdivision thereof and for which public funds may be expended. Public purposes include but are not limited to programs such as conservation, economic development, education, parks and recreation, public health, public safety, programs of assistance to the homeless or impoverished, and programs for older individuals.
Public safety
means a program(s) carried out or promoted by a public agency for public purposes involving, directly or indirectly, the protection, safety, law enforcement activities, and criminal justice system of a given political area. Public safety programs may include, but are not limited to those carried out by:
(1) Public police departments.
(2) Sheriffs' offices.
(3) The courts.
(4) Penal and correctional institutions (including juvenile facilities).
(5) State and local civil defense organizations.
(6) Fire departments and rescue squads (including volunteer fire departments and rescue squads supported in whole or in part with public funds).
School (except schools for the mentally or physically disabled)
means a public or nonprofit approved or accredited organizational entity devoted primarily to approved academic, vocational, or professional study and instruction, that operates primarily for educational purposes on a full-time basis for a minimum school year and employs a full-time staff of qualified instructors.
School for the mentally or physically disabled
means a facility or institution operated primarily to provide specialized instruction to students of limited mental or physical capacity. It must be public or nonprofit and must operate on a full-time basis for the equivalent of a minimum school year prescribed for public school instruction for the mentally or physically disabled, have a staff of qualified instructors, and demonstrate that the facility meets the health and safety standards of the State or local government.
University
means a public or nonprofit approved or accredited institution for instruction and study in the higher branches of learning and empowered to confer degrees in special departments or colleges.
Veterans Organizations
means organizations eligible to receive Federal surplus property for purposes of providing services to veterans under 40 U.S.C. 549(c)(3)(C). Eligible veterans organizations are those whose (1) membership comprises substantially veterans (as defined under 38 U.S.C. 101); and (2) representatives are recognized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under 38 U.S.C. 5902. The Department of Veterans Affairs maintains a searchable Web site of recognized organizations. The address is
http://www.va.gov/ogc/apps/accreditation/index.asp.
[67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006; 72 FR 12572, Mar. 16, 2007; 79 FR 64515, Oct. 30, 2014; 87 FR 6043, Feb. 3, 2022]
Pt. 102-38

# PART 102-38—SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-38.5
What does this part cover?
102-38.10
What is the governing authority for this part?
102-38.15
Who must comply with these sales provisions?
102-38.20
Must an executive agency follow the regulations of this part when selling all personal property?
102-38.25
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
102-38.30
How does an executive agency request a deviation from the provisions of this part?

# Definitions
102-38.35
What definitions apply to this part?

# Responsibilities
102-38.40
Who may sell personal property?
102-38.45
What are an executive agency's responsibilities in selling personal property?
102-38.50
What must we do when an executive agency suspects violations of 40 U.S.C. 559, fraud, bribery, or criminal collusion in connection with the disposal of personal property?
102-38.55
What must we do when selling personal property?
102-38.60
Who is responsible for the costs of care and handling of the personal property before it is sold?
102-38.65
What if we are or the holding agency is notified of a Federal requirement for surplus personal property before the sale is complete?
102-38.70
May the holding agency abandon or destroy personal property either prior to or after trying to sell it?

# Subpart B—Sales Process

# Methods of Sale
102-38.75
How may we sell personal property?
102-38.80
Which method of sale should we use?

# Competitive Sales
102-38.85
What is a sealed bid sale?
102-38.90
What is a spot bid sale?
102-38.95
What is an auction?

# Negotiated Sales
102-38.100
What is a negotiated sale?
102-38.105
Under what conditions may we negotiate sales of personal property?
102-38.110
Who approves our determinations to conduct negotiated sales?
102-38.115
What are the specific reporting requirements for negotiated sales?
102-38.120
When may we conduct negotiated sales of personal property at fixed prices (fixed price sale)?
102-38.125
May we sell personal property at fixed prices to State agencies?

# Advertising
102-38.130
Must we publicly advertise sales of Federal personal property?
102-38.135
What constitutes a public advertisement?
102-38.140
What must we include in the public notice on sale of personal property?

# Pre-Sale Activities
102-38.145
Must we allow for inspection of the personal property to be sold?
102-38.150
How long is the inspection period?

# Offer to Sell
102-38.155
What is an offer to sell?
102-38.160
What must be included in the offer to sell?
102-38.165
Are the terms and conditions in the offer to sell binding?

# Subpart C—Bids

# Buyer Eligibility
102-38.170
May we sell Federal personal property to anyone?
102-38.175
How do we find out if a person or entity has been suspended or debarred from doing business with the Government?
102-38.180
May we sell Federal personal property to a Federal employee?
102-38.185
May we sell Federal personal property to State or local governments?

# Acceptance of Bids
102-38.190
What is considered a responsive bid?
102-38.195
Must bidders use authorized bid forms?
102-38.200
Who may accept bids?
102-38.205
Must we accept all bids?
102-38.210
What happens when bids have been rejected?
102-38.215
When may we disclose the bid results to the public?
102-38.220
What must we do when the highest bids received have the same bid amount?
102-38.225
What are the additional requirements in the bid process?

# Bid Deposits
102-38.230
Is a bid deposit required to buy personal property?
102-38.235
What types of payment may we accept as bid deposits?
102-38.240
What happens to the deposit bond if the bidder defaults or wants to withdraw their bid?

# Late Bids
102-38.245
Do we consider late bids for award?
102-38.250
How do we handle late bids that are not considered?

# Modification or Withdrawal of Bids
102-38.255
May we allow a bidder to modify or withdraw a bid?

# Mistakes in Bids
102-38.260
Who makes the administrative determinations regarding mistakes in bids?
102-38.265
Must we keep records on administrative determinations?
102-38.270
May a bidder protest the determinations made on sales of personal property?

# Subpart D—Completion of Sale

# Awards
102-38.275
To whom do we award the sales contract?
102-38.280
What happens when there is no award?

# Transfer of Title
102-38.285
How do we transfer title from the Government to the buyer for personal property sold?

# Payments
102-38.290
What types of payment may we accept?

# Disposition of Proceeds
102-38.295
May we retain sales proceeds?
102-38.300
What happens to sales proceeds that neither we nor the holding agency are authorized to retain, or that are unused?

# Disputes
102-38.305
How do we handle disputes involved in the sale of Federal personal property?
102-38.310
Are we required to use the Disputes clause in the sale of personal property?
102-38.315
Are we required to use Alternative Disputes Resolution for sales contracts?

# Subpart E—Other Governing Statutes
102-38.320
Are there other statutory requirements governing the sale of Federal personal property?

# Antitrust Requirements
102-38.325
What are the requirements pertaining to antitrust laws?

# Subpart F—Reporting Requirements
102-38.330
Are there any reports that we must submit to the General Services Administration?
102-38.335
Is there any additional personal property sales information that we must submit to the General Services Administration?

# Subpart G—Provisions for State and Local Governments
102-38.340
How may we sell personal property to State and local governments?
102-38.345
Do we have to withdraw personal property advertised for public sale if a State Agency for Surplus Property wants to buy it?
102-38.350
Are there special provisions for State and local governments regarding negotiated sales?
102-38.355
Do the regulations of this part apply to State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs) when conducting sales?

# Subpart H—Implementation of the Federal Asset Sales Program
102-38.360
What must an executive agency do to implement the eFAS program?
102-38.365
Is a holding agency required to report property in “scrap” condition to its selected SC?
102-38.370
What does a holding agency do with property which cannot be sold by its SC?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 545 and 40 U.S.C. 121(c).

# Source:
68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-38.5
What does this part cover?
This part prescribes the policies governing the sale of Federal personal property, including—
(a) Surplus personal property that has completed all required Federal and/or donation screening; and
(b) Personal property to be sold under the exchange/sale authority.

# Note to § 102-38.5:
You must follow additional guidelines in 41 CFR parts 101-42 and 101-45 of the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR) for the sale of personal property that has special handling requirements or property containing hazardous materials. Additional requirements for the sale of aircraft and aircraft parts are provided in part 102-33 of this chapter.
§ 102-38.10
What is the governing authority for this part?
The authority for the regulations in this part governing the sale of Federal
personal property is 40 U.S.C. 541 through 548, 571, 573 and 574.
§ 102-38.15
Who must comply with these sales provisions?
All executive agencies must comply with the provisions of this part. The legislative and judicial branches are encouraged to follow these provisions.
§ 102-38.20
Must an executive agency follow the regulations of this part when selling all personal property?
Generally, yes, an executive agency must follow the regulations of this part when selling all personal property; however—
(a) Materials acquired for the national stockpile or supplemental stockpile, or materials or equipment acquired under section 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2093) are excepted from this part;
(b) The Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation, has jurisdiction over the disposal of vessels of 1,500 gross tons or more and determined by the Secretary to be merchant vessels or capable of conversion to merchant use;
(c) Sales made by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2576 (Sale of Surplus Military Equipment to State and Local Law Enforcement and Firefighting Agencies) are exempt from these provisions;
(d) Foreign excess personal property is exempt from these provisions; and
(e) Agency sales procedures which are mandated or authorized under laws other than Title 40 United States Code are exempt from this part.
[73 FR 20802, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.25
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
Unless otherwise indicated, use of pronouns “we”, “you”, and their variants throughout this part refer to the Sales Center responsible for the sale of the property.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 20802, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.30
How does an executive agency request a deviation from the provisions of this part?
Refer to §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter for information on how to obtain a deviation from this part. However, waivers which are distinct from the standard deviation process and specific to the requirements of the Federal Asset Sales (eFAS) initiative milestones (see subpart H of this part) are addressed in § 102-38.360.
[73 FR 20802, Apr. 17, 2008]

# Definitions
§ 102-38.35
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Bid
means a response to an offer to sell that, if accepted, would bind the bidder to the terms and conditions of the contract (including the bid price).
Bidder
means any entity that is responding to or has responded to an offer to sell.
Estimated fair market value
means the selling agency's best estimate of what the property would be sold for if offered for public sale.
Federal Asset Sales (eFAS)
refers to the e-Government initiative to improve the way the Federal Government manages and sells its real and personal property assets. Under this initiative, only an agency designated as a Sales Center (SC) may sell Federal property, unless a waiver has been granted by the
eFAS
Planning Office in accordance with § 102-38.360. The
eFAS
initiative is governed and given direction by the
eFAS
Executive Steering Committee (ESC), with GSA as the managing partner agency.
Federal Asset Sales Planning Office (eFAS Planning Office)
refers to the office within GSA assigned responsibility for managing the eFAS initiative.
Holding Agency
refers to the agency in possession of personal property eligible for sale under this part.
Identical bids
means bids for the same item of property having the same total price.
Migration Plan
refers to the document a holding agency prepares to summarize its choice of SC(s) and its plan for migrating agency sales to the SC(s).
The format for this document is determined by the eFAS ESC.
Personal property
means any property, except real property. For purposes of this part, the term excludes records of the Federal Government, and naval vessels of the following categories:
(1) Battleships;
(2) Cruisers;
(3) Aircraft carriers;
(4) Destroyers; and
(5) Submarines.
Sales Center (SC)
means an agency that has been nominated, designated, and approved by the eFAS ESC and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) as an official sales solution for Federal property. The criteria for becoming an
SC,
the selection process, and the ongoing
SC
requirements for posting property for sale to the eFAS portal and reporting sales activity and performance data are established by the eFAS ESC and can be obtained from the eFAS Planning Office at GSA. The eFAS Planning Office may be contacted via e-mail at
FASPlanningOffice@gsa.gov. SCs
may utilize (and should consider) private sector entities as well as Government activities and are expected to provide exemplary asset management solutions in one or more of the following areas: on-line sales; off-line sales; and sales-related value added services.
SCs
will enter into agreements with holding agencies to sell property belonging to these holding agencies. A holding agency may employ the services of multiple
SCs
to maximize efficiencies.
State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)
means the agency designated under State law to receive Federal surplus personal property for distribution to eligible donees within the State as provided for in 40 U.S.C. 549.
State or local government
means a State, territory, possession, political subdivision thereof, or tax-supported agency therein.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 20802, Apr. 17, 2008]

# Responsibilities
§ 102-38.40
Who may sell personal property?
An executive agency may sell personal property (including on behalf of another agency when so requested) only if it is a designated Sales Center (SC), or if the agency has received a waiver from the eFAS Planning Office. An SC may engage contractor support to sell personal property. Only a duly authorized agency official may execute the sale award documents and bind the United States.
[73 FR 20802, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.45
What are an executive agency's responsibilities in selling personal property?
An executive agency's responsibilities in selling personal property are to—
(a) Ensure the sale complies with the provisions of Title 40 of the U.S. Code, the regulations of this part, and any other applicable laws;
(b) Issue internal guidance to promote uniformity of sales procedures;
(c) Assure that officials designated to conduct and finalize sales are adequately trained;
(d) Be accountable for the care and handling of the personal property prior to its removal by the buyer; and
(e) Adjust your property and financial records to reflect the final disposition.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.50
What must we do when an executive agency suspects violations of 40 U.S.C. 559, fraud, bribery, or criminal collusion in connection with the disposal of personal property?
If an executive agency suspects violations of 40 U.S.C. 559, fraud, bribery, or criminal collusion in connection with the disposal of personal property, the agency must—
(a) Refer the violations to the Inspector General of your agency and/or the Attorney General, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530, for further investigation. You must cooperate with and provide evidence concerning the suspected violation or crime to the
investigating agency assuming jurisdiction of the matter; and
(b) Submit to the General Services Administration (GSA), Property Management Division (FBP), 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20406, a report of any compliance investigations concerning such violations. The report must contain information concerning the noncompliance, including the corrective action taken or contemplated, and, for cases referred to the Department of Justice, a copy of the transmittal letter. A copy of each report must be submitted also to GSA, Personal Property Management Policy Division (MTP), 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20405.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.55
What must we do when selling personal property?
When selling personal property, you must ensure that—
(a) All sales are made after publicly advertising for bids, except as provided for negotiated sales in §§ 102-38.100 through 102-38.125; and
(b) Advertising for bids must permit full and free competition consistent with the value and nature of the property involved.
§ 102-38.60
Who is responsible for the costs of care and handling of the personal property before it is sold?
The holding agency is responsible for the care and handling costs of the personal property until it is removed by the buyer, the buyer's designee, or an SC. The holding agency may request the SC to perform care and handling services in accordance with their agreement. When specified in the terms and conditions of sale, the SC may charge the buyer costs for storage when the buyer is delinquent in removing the property. The amount so charged may only be retained by the holding agency performing the care and handling in accordance with § 102-38.295.
[73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.65
What if we are or the holding agency is notified of a Federal requirement for surplus personal property before the sale is complete?
Federal agencies have first claim to excess or surplus personal property reported to the General Services Administration. When a bona fide need for the property exists and is expressed by a Federal agency, and when no like item(s) are located elsewhere, you or the holding agency must make the property available for transfer to the maximum extent practicable and prior to transfer of title to the property.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.70
May the holding agency abandon or destroy personal property either prior to or after trying to sell it?
(a) Yes, the holding agency may abandon or destroy personal property either prior to or after trying to sell it, but only when an authorized agency official has made a written determination that—
(1) The personal property has no commercial value; or
(2) The estimated cost of continued care and handling would exceed the estimated sales proceeds.
(b) In addition to the provisions in paragraph (a) of this section, see the regulations at §§ 102-36.305 through 102-36.330 of this subchapter B that are applicable to the abandonment or destruction of personal property in general, and excess personal property in particular.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008]

# Subpart B—Sales Process

# Methods of Sale
§ 102-38.75
How may we sell personal property?
(a) You will sell personal property upon such terms and conditions as the head of your agency or designee deems proper to promote the fairness, openness, and timeliness necessary for the sale to be conducted in a manner most advantageous to the Government.
When you are selling property on behalf of another agency, you must consult with the holding agency to determine any special or unique sales terms and conditions. You must also document the required terms and conditions of each sale, including, but not limited to, the following terms and conditions, as applicable:
(1) Inspection.
(2) Condition and location of property.
(3) Eligibility of bidders.
(4) Consideration of bids.
(5) Bid deposits and payments.
(6) Submission of bids.
(7) Bid price determination.
(8) Title.
(9) Delivery, loading, and removal of property.
(10) Default, returns, or refunds.
(11) Modifications, withdrawals, or late bids.
(12) Requirements to comply with applicable laws and regulations. 41 CFR part 101-42 contains useful guidance addressing many of these requirements. You should also contact your agency's Office of General Counsel or environmental office to identify applicable Federal, State, or local environmental laws and regulations.
(13) Certificate of independent price determinations.
(14) Covenant against contingent fees.
(15) Limitation on Government's liability.
(16) Award of contract.
(b) Standard government forms (e.g., Standard Form 114 series) may be used to document terms and conditions of the sale.
(c) When conducting and completing a sale through electronic media, the required terms and conditions must be included in your electronic sales documentation.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.80
Which method of sale should we use?
(a) You may use any method of sale provided the sale is publicly advertised and the personal property is sold with full and open competition. Exceptions to the requirement for competitive bids for negotiated sales (including fixed price sales) are contained in §§ 102-38.100 through 102-38.125. You must select the method of sale that will bring maximum return at minimum cost, considering factors such as—
(1) Type and quantity of property;
(2) Location of property;
(3) Potential market;
(4) Cost to prepare and conduct the sale;
(5) Available facilities; and
(6) Sales experience of the selling activity.
(b) Methods of sale may include sealed bid sales, spot bid sales, auctions, or negotiated sales and may be conducted at a physical location or through any electronic media that is publicly accessible.

# Competitive Sales
§ 102-38.85
What is a sealed bid sale?
A sealed bid sale is a sale in which bid prices are kept confidential until bid opening. Bids are submitted either electronically or in writing according to formats specified by the selling agency, and all bids are held for public disclosure at a designated time and place.
§ 102-38.90
What is a spot bid sale?
A spot bid sale is a sale where immediately following the offering of the item or lot of property, bids are examined, and awards are made or bids rejected on the spot. Bids are either submitted electronically or in writing according to formats specified by the selling agency, and must not be disclosed prior to announcement of award.
§ 102-38.95
What is an auction?
An auction is a sale where the bid amounts of different bidders are disclosed as they are submitted, providing bidders the option to increase their bids if they choose. Bids are submitted electronically and/or by those physically present at the sale. Normally, the bidder with the highest bid at the close of each bidding process is awarded the property.

# Negotiated Sales
§ 102-38.100
What is a negotiated sale?
A negotiated sale is a sale where the selling price is arrived at between the seller and the buyer, subject to obtaining such competition as is feasible under the circumstances.
§ 102-38.105
Under what conditions may we negotiate sales of personal property?
You may negotiate sales of personal property when—
(a) The personal property has an estimated fair market value that does not exceed $15,000;
(b) The disposal will be to a State, territory, possession, political subdivision thereof, or tax-supported agency therein, and the estimated fair market value of the property and other satisfactory terms of disposal are obtained by negotiation;
(c) Bid prices after advertising are not reasonable and re-advertising would serve no useful purpose;
(d) Public exigency does not permit any delay such as that caused by the time required to advertise a sale;
(e) The sale promotes public health, safety, or national security;
(f) The sale is in the public interest under a national emergency declared by the President or the Congress. This authority may be used only with specific lot(s) of property or for categories determined by the Administrator of General Services for a designated period but not in excess of three months;
(g) Selling the property competitively would have an adverse impact on the national economy, provided that the estimated fair market value of the property and other satisfactory terms of disposal can be obtained by negotiation, e.g., sale of large quantities of an agricultural product that impact domestic markets; or
(h) Otherwise authorized by Title 40 of the U.S. Code or other law.
§ 102-38.110
Who approves our determinations to conduct negotiated sales?
The head of your agency (or designee) must approve all negotiated sales of personal property.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-38.115
What are the specific reporting requirements for negotiated sales?
For negotiated sales of personal property, you must—
(a) In accordance with 40 U.S.C. 545(e), and in advance of the sale, submit to the oversight committees for the General Services Administration (GSA) in the Senate and House, explanatory statements for each sale by negotiation of any personal property with an estimated fair market value in excess of $15,000. You must maintain copies of the explanatory statements in your disposal files. No statement is needed for negotiated sales at fixed price or for any sale made without advertising when authorized by law other than 40 U.S.C. 545; and
(b) Report annually to GSA, Personal Property Management Policy Division (MTP), 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC, 20405, within 60 calendar days after the close of each fiscal year, a listing and description of all negotiated sales of personal property with an estimated fair market value in excess of $5,000. You may submit the report electronically or manually (see § 102-38.330).
§ 102-38.120
When may we conduct negotiated sales of personal property at fixed prices (fixed price sale)?
You may conduct negotiated sales of personal property at fixed prices (fixed price sale) under this section when:
(a) The items are authorized to be sold at fixed price by the Administrator of General Services, as reflected in GSA Bulletin FMR B-10 (located at
http://www.gsa.gov/fmrbulletin
). You may also contact the GSA Office of Travel, Transportation, and Asset Management (MT) at the address listed in § 102-38.115 to determine which items are on this list of authorized items;
(b) The head of your agency, or designee, determines in writing that such
sales serve the best interest of the Government. When you are selling property on behalf of a holding agency, you must consult with the holding agency in determining whether a fixed price sale meets this criterion; and
(c) You must publicize such sales to the extent consistent with the value and nature of the property involved, and the prices established must reflect the estimated fair market value of the property. Property is sold on a first-come, first-served basis. You or the holding agency may also establish additional terms and conditions that must be met by the successful purchaser in accordance with § 102-38.75.
[73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.125
May we sell personal property at fixed prices to State agencies?
Yes, before offering to the public, you may offer the property at fixed prices (through the State Agencies for Surplus Property) to any States, territories, possessions, political subdivisions thereof, or tax-supported agencies therein, which have expressed an interest in obtaining the property. For additional information, see subpart G of this part.

# Advertising
§ 102-38.130
Must we publicly advertise sales of Federal personal property?
Yes, you must provide public notice of your sale of personal property to permit full and open competition.
§ 102-38.135
What constitutes a public advertisement?
Announcement of the sale using any media that reaches the public and is appropriate to the type and value of personal property to be sold is considered public advertising. You may also distribute mailings or flyers of your offer to sell to prospective purchasers on mailing lists. Public notice should be made far enough in advance of the sale to ensure adequate notice, and to target your advertising efforts toward the market that will provide the best return at the lowest cost.
§ 102-38.140
What must we include in the public notice on sale of personal property?
In the public notice, you must provide information necessary for potential buyers to participate in the sale, such as—
(a) Date, time and location of sale;
(b) General categories of property being offered for sale;
(c) Inspection period;
(d) Method of sale (i.e., spot bid, sealed bid, auction);
(e) Selling agency; and
(f) Who to contact for additional information.

# Pre-Sale Activities
§ 102-38.145
Must we allow for inspection of the personal property to be sold?
Yes, you must allow for an electronic or physical inspection of the personal property to be sold. You must allow prospective bidders sufficient time for inspection. If inspection is restricted to electronic inspections only, due to unusual circumstances prohibiting physical inspection, you must notify your General Services Administration Regional Personal Property Office in writing, with the circumstances surrounding this restriction at least 3 days prior to the start of the screening period.
§ 102-38.150
How long is the inspection period?
The length of the inspection period allowed depends upon whether the inspection is done electronically or physically. You should also consider such factors as the circumstances of sale, volume of property, type of property, location of the property, and accessibility of the sales facility. Normally, you should provide at least 7 calendar days to ensure potential buyers have the opportunity to perform needed inspections.

# Offer to Sell
§ 102-38.155
What is an offer to sell?
An offer to sell is a notice listing the terms and conditions for bidding on an upcoming sale of personal property,
where prospective purchasers are advised of the requirements for a responsive bid and the contractual obligations once a bid is accepted.
§ 102-38.160
What must be included in the offer to sell?
The offer to sell must include—
(a) Sale date and time;
(b) Method of sale;
(c) Description of property being offered for sale;
(d) Selling agency;
(e) Location of property;
(f) Time and place for receipt of bids;
(g) Acceptable forms of bid deposits and payments; and
(h) Terms and conditions of sale, including any specific restrictions and limitations.
§ 102-38.165
Are the terms and conditions in the offer to sell binding?
Yes, the terms and conditions in the offer to sell are normally incorporated into the sales contract, and therefore binding upon both the buyer and the seller once a bid is accepted.

# Subpart C—Bids

# Buyer Eligibility
§ 102-38.170
May we sell Federal personal property to anyone?
Generally, you may sell Federal personal property to anyone of legal age. However, certain persons or entities are debarred or suspended from purchasing Federal property. You must not enter into a contract with such a person or entity unless your agency head or designee responsible for the disposal action determines that there is a compelling reason for such an action.
§ 102-38.175
How do we find out if a person or entity has been suspended or debarred from doing business with the Government?
Refer to the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs to ensure you do not solicit from or award contracts to these persons or entities. The list is available through subscription from the U.S. Government Printing Office, or electronically on the Internet at
http://epls.arnet.gov.
For policies, procedures, and requirements for debarring/suspending a person or entity from the purchase of Federal personal property, follow the procedures in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) subpart 9.4 (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4).
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003; 68 FR 53219, Sept. 9, 2003]
§ 102-38.180
May we sell Federal personal property to a Federal employee?
Yes, you may sell Federal personal property to any Federal employee whose agency does not prohibit their employees from purchasing such property. However, unless allowed by Federal or agency regulations, employees having nonpublic information regarding property offered for sale may not participate in that sale (see 5 CFR 2635.703). For purposes of this section, the term “Federal employee” also applies to an immediate member of the employee's household.
§ 102-38.185
May we sell Federal personal property to State or local governments?
Yes, you may sell Federal personal property to State or local governments. Additional guidelines on sales to State or local governments are contained in subpart G of this part.

# Acceptance of Bids
§ 102-38.190
What is considered a responsive bid?
A responsive bid is a bid that complies with the terms and conditions of the sales offering, and satisfies the requirements as to the method and timeliness of the submission. Only responsive bids may be considered for award.
§ 102-38.195
Must bidders use authorized bid forms?
No, bidders do not have to use authorized bid forms; however if a bidder uses does not use an authorized bid form to submit a bid, the bid may be considered only if—
(a) The bidder accepts all the terms and conditions of the offer to sell; and
(b) Award of the bid would result in a binding contract.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-38.200
Who may accept bids?
Authorized agency representatives may accept bids for your agency. These individuals should meet your agency's requirements for approval of Government contracts.
§ 102-38.205
Must we accept all bids?
No, the Government reserves the right to accept or reject any or all bids. You may reject any or all bids when such action is advantageous to the Government, or when it is in the public interest to do so.
§ 102-38.210
What happens when bids have been rejected?
You may re-offer items for which all bids have been rejected at the same sale, if possible, or another sale.
§ 102-38.215
When may we disclose the bid results to the public?
You may disclose bid results to the public after the sales award of any item or lot of property. On occasions when there is open bidding, usually at a spot bid sale or auction, all bids are disclosed as they are submitted. No information other than names may be disclosed regarding the bidder(s).
§ 102-38.220
What must we do when the highest bids received have the same bid amount?
When the highest bids received have the same bid amount, you must consider other factors of the sale (e.g., timely removal of the property, terms of payment, etc.) that would make one offer more advantageous to the Government. However, if you are unable to make a determination based on available information, and the Government has an acceptable offer, you may re-offer the property for sale, or you may utilize random tiebreakers to avoid the expense of reselling the property.
§ 102-38.225
What are the additional requirements in the bid process?
All sales except fixed price sales must contain a certification of independent price determination. If there is suspicion of false certification or an indication of collusion, you must refer the matter to the Department of Justice or your agency's Office of the Inspector General.

# Bid Deposits
§ 102-38.230
Is a bid deposit required to buy personal property?
No, a bid deposit is not required to buy personal property. However, should you require a bid deposit to protect the Government's interest, a deposit of 20 percent of the total amount of the bid is generally considered reasonable.
§ 102-38.235
What types of payment may we accept as bid deposits?
In addition to the acceptable types of payments in § 102-38.290, you may also accept a deposit bond. A deposit bond may be used in lieu of cash or other acceptable form of deposit when permitted by the offer to sell, such as the Standard Form (SF) 150, Deposit Bond—Individual Invitation, Sale of Government Personal Property, SF 151, Deposit Bond—Annual, Sale of Government Personal Property, and SF 28, Affidavit of Individual Surety. For information on how to obtain these forms, see § 102-2.135 of subchapter A.
§ 102-38.240
What happens to the deposit bond if the bidder defaults or wants to withdraw their bid?
(a) When a bid deposit is secured by a deposit bond and the bidder defaults, you must issue a notice of default to the bidder and the surety company.
(b) When a bid deposit is secured by a deposit bond and the bidder wants to withdraw their bid, you should return the deposit bond to the bidder.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 67866, Aug. 22, 2024]

# Late Bids
§ 102-38.245
Do we consider late bids for award?
Consider late bids for award only when the bids were delivered timely to the address specified and your agency caused the delay in delivering the bids to the official designated to accept the bids.
§ 102-38.250
How do we handle late bids that are not considered?
Late bids that are not considered must be returned to the bidder promptly. You must not disclose information contained in returned bids.

# Modification or Withdrawal of Bids
§ 102-38.255
May we allow a bidder to modify or withdraw a bid?
(a) Yes, a bidder may modify or withdraw a bid prior to the start of the sale or the time set for the opening of the bids. After the start of the sale, or the time set for opening the bids, the bidder will not be allowed to withdraw their bid.
(b) You may consider late modifications to an otherwise successful bid at any time, but only when it makes the terms of the bid more favorable to the Government.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]

# Mistakes in Bids
§ 102-38.260
Who makes the administrative determinations regarding mistakes in bids?
The administrative procedures for handling mistakes in bids are contained in FAR 14.407, Mistakes in Bids (48 CFR 14.407). Your agency head, or designee, may delegate the authority to make administrative decisions regarding mistakes in bids to a central authority, or a limited number of authorities in your agency, who must not re-delegate this authority.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-38.265
Must we keep records on administrative determinations?
Yes, you must—
(a) Maintain records of all administrative determinations made, to include the pertinent facts and the action taken in each case. A copy of the determination must be attached to its corresponding contract; and
(b) Provide a signed copy of any related determination with the copy of the contract you file with the Comptroller General when requested.
§ 102-38.270
May a bidder protest the determinations made on sales of personal property?
Yes, protests regarding the validity or the determinations made on the sale of personal property may be submitted to the Comptroller General.

# Subpart D—Completion of Sale

# Awards
§ 102-38.275
To whom do we award the sales contract?
You must award the sales contract to the bidder with the highest responsive bid, unless a determination is made to reject the bid under § 102-38.205.
§ 102-38.280
What happens when there is no award?
When there is no award made, you may sell the personal property at another sale, or you may abandon or destroy it pursuant to § 102-36.305 of this subchapter B.

# Transfer of Title
§ 102-38.285
How do we transfer title from the Government to the buyer for personal property sold?
(a) Generally, no specific form or format is designated for transferring title from the Government to the buyer for personal property sold. For internal control and accountability, you must execute a bill of sale or another document as evidence of transfer of title or any other interest in Government personal property. You must also ensure that the buyer submits any additional certifications to comply with specific conditions and restrictions of the sale.
(b) For sales of vehicles, you must issue to the purchaser a Standard Form (SF) 97, the United States Government Certificate to Obtain Title to a Vehicle, or a SF 97A, the United States Government Certificate to Obtain a Non-Repairable or Salvage Certificate, as appropriate, as evidence of transfer of title. For information on how to obtain these forms, see § 102-2.135 of this chapter.

# Payments
§ 102-38.290
What types of payment may we accept?
You must adopt a payment policy that protects the Government against fraud. Acceptable payments include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) U.S. currency or any form of credit instrument made payable on demand in U.S. currency, e.g., cashier's check, money order. Promissory notes and
postdated credit instruments are not acceptable.
(b) Irrevocable commercial letters of credit issued by a United States bank payable to the Treasurer of the United States or to the Government agency conducting the sale.
(c) Credit or debit cards.

# Disposition of Proceeds
§ 102-38.295
May we retain sales proceeds?
(a) You may retain that portion of the sales proceeds, in accordance with your agreement with the holding agency, equal to your direct costs and reasonably related indirect costs (including your share of the Governmentwide costs to support the eFAS Internet portal and Governmentwide reporting requirements) incurred in selling personal property.
(b) A holding agency may retain that portion of the sales proceeds equal to its costs of care and handling directly related to the sale of personal property by the SC (e.g., shipment to the SC, storage pending sale, and inspection by prospective buyers).
(c) After accounting for amounts retained under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable, a holding agency may retain the balance of proceeds from the sale of its agency's personal property when—
(1) It has the statutory authority to retain all proceeds from sales of personal property;
(2) The property sold was acquired with non-appropriated funds as defined in § 102-36.40 of this subchapter B;
(3) The property sold was surplus Government property that was in the custody of a contractor or subcontractor, and the contract or subcontract provisions authorize the proceeds of sale to be credited to the price or cost of the contract or subcontract;
(4) The property was sold to obtain replacement property under the exchange/sale authority pursuant to part 102-39 of this subchapter B; or
(5) The property sold was related to waste prevention and recycling programs, under the authority of Section 607 of Public Law 107-67 (Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, Pub. L. 107-67, 115 Stat. 514). Consult your General Counsel or Chief Financial Officer for guidance on use of this authority.
[73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008]
§ 102-38.300
What happens to sales proceeds that neither we nor the holding agency are authorized to retain, or that are unused?
Any sales proceeds that are not retained pursuant to the authorities in § 102-38.295 must be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the U.S. Treasury.

# Disputes
§ 102-38.305
How do we handle disputes involved in the sale of Federal personal property?
First contact your Office of General Counsel. Further guidance can be found in the Contract Disputes Act of 1978, as amended (41 U.S.C. 601-613), and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR part 33.
§ 102-38.310
Are we required to use the Disputes clause in the sale of personal property?
Yes, you must ensure the Disputes clause contained in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.233-1 (48 CFR part 52) is included in all offers to sell and contracts for the sale of personal property.
§ 102-38.315
Are we required to use Alternative Disputes Resolution for sales contracts?
No, you are not required to use Alternative Disputes Resolution (ADR) for sales contracts. However, you are encouraged to use ADR procedures in accordance with the authority and the requirements of the Alternative Disputes Resolution Act of 1998 (28 U.S.C. 651-658).

# Subpart E—Other Governing Statutes
§ 102-38.320
Are there other statutory requirements governing the sale of Federal personal property?
Yes, in addition to Title 40 of the U.S. Code the sale of Federal personal property is governed by other statutory requirements, such as the Debt
Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-134, sec. 31001, 110 Stat. 1321-358) and antitrust requirements that are discussed in § 102-38.325.

# Antitrust Requirements
§ 102-38.325
What are the requirements pertaining to antitrust laws?
When the sale of personal property has an estimated fair market value of $3 million or more or if the sale involves a patent, process, technique, or invention, you must notify the Attorney General of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and get DOJ's opinion as to whether the sale would give the buyer an unfair advantage in the marketplace and violate any antitrust laws. Include in the notification the description and location of the property, method of sale and proposed selling price, and information on the proposed purchaser and intended use of the property. You must not complete the sale until you have received confirmation from the Attorney General that the proposed transaction would not violate any antitrust laws.
[68 FR 51421, Aug. 26, 2003; 68 FR 53219, Sept. 9, 2003]

# Subpart F—Reporting Requirements
§ 102-38.330
Are there any reports that we must submit to the General Services Administration?
Yes, there are two sales reports you must submit to the General Services Administration (GSA), Personal Property Management Policy Division (MTP), 1800 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20405—
(a)
Negotiated sales report.
Within 60 calendar days after the close of each fiscal year, you must provide GSA with a listing and description of all negotiated sales with an estimated fair market value in excess of $5,000 (see § 102-38.115). For each negotiated sale that meets this criterion, provide the following:
(1) Description of the property (including quantity and condition).
(2) Acquisition cost and date (if not known, estimate and so indicate).
(3) Estimated fair market value (including date of estimate and name of estimator).
(4) Name and address of purchaser.
(5) Date of sale.
(6) Gross and net sales proceeds.
(7) Justification for conducting a negotiated sale.
(b)
Exchange/sale report.
Within 90 calendar days after the close of each fiscal year, you must provide a summary report to GSA of transactions conducted under the exchange/sale authority under part 102-39 of this subchapter B (see § 102-39.75).
§ 102-38.335
Is there any additional personal property sales information that we must submit to the General Services Administration?
Yes, you must report to the General Services Administration's (GSA's) Asset Disposition Management System (ADMS), once that capability is established, any sales information that GSA deems necessary.

# Subpart G—Provisions for State and Local Governments
§ 102-38.340
How may we sell personal property to State and local governments?
You may sell Government personal property to State and local governments through—
(a) Competitive sale to the public;
(b) Negotiated sale, through the appropriate State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP); or
(c) Negotiated sale at fixed price (fixed price sale), through the appropriate SASP. (This method of sale can be used prior to a competitive sale to the public, if desired.)
§ 102-38.345
Do we have to withdraw personal property advertised for public sale if a State Agency for Surplus Property wants to buy it?
No, you are not required to withdraw the item from public sale if the property has been advertised.
§ 102-38.350
Are there special provisions for State and local governments regarding negotiated sales?
Yes, you must waive the requirement for bid deposits and payment prior to
removal of the property. However, payment must be made within 30 calendar days after purchase. If payment is not made within 30 days, you may charge simple interest at the rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury as provided in section 12 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 611), from the date of written demand for payment.
§ 102-38.355
Do the regulations of this part apply to State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs) when conducting sales?
Yes, State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs) must follow the regulations in this part when conducting sales on behalf of the General Services Administration of Government personal property in their custody.

# Subpart H—Implementation of the Federal Asset Sales Program

# Source:
73 FR 20803, Apr. 17, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-38.360
What must an executive agency do to implement the eFAS program?
(a) An executive agency must review the effectiveness of all sales solutions, and compare them to the effectiveness (e.g., cost, level of service, and value added services) of the eFAS SCs. Agencies should give full consideration to sales solutions utilizing private sector entities, including small businesses, that are more effective than the solutions provided by any eFAS-approved SC. If the agency decides that there are more effective sales solutions than those solutions offered by the eFAS SCs, the agency must request a waiver from the milestones using the procedures and forms provided by the eFAS Planning Office. Waivers will be approved by the eFAS Planning Office upon presentation of a business case showing that complying with an eFAS milestone is either impracticable or inefficient. Waiver approval will be coordinated with GSA's Office of Travel, Transportation, and Asset Management. Contact the eFAS Planning Office at
FASPlanningOffice@gsa.gov
to obtain these procedures and forms.
(b) An approved waiver for meeting one of the eFAS milestones does not automatically waive all milestone requirements. For example, if an agency receives a waiver to the migration milestone, the agency must still (1) post asset information on the eFAS Web site and (2) provide post-sales data to the eFAS Planning Office in accordance with the content and format requirements developed by the eFAS ESC, unless waivers to these milestones are also requested and approved. Waivers to the eFAS milestones will not be permanent. Upon expiration of the waiver to the migration milestone, an agency must either migrate to an approved SC, or serve as a fully functioning SC, as soon as practicable. See the definition of a “Sales Center” at § 102-38.35 for an overview of how agency sales solutions become SCs.
(c) An agency which receives a waiver from the eFAS milestones must comply with subparts A through G of this part as if it were an SC.
(d) An executive agency must comply with all eFAS milestones approved by OMB including those regarding the completion of an agency-wide sales migration plan, the reporting of pre- and post-sales data, and the migration to approved SCs unless a waiver has been submitted by the agency and approved by the eFAS Planning Office. The eFAS milestones are available for viewing at
http://www.gsa.gov/govsalesmilestones.
§ 102-38.365
Is a holding agency required to report property in “scrap” condition to its selected SC?
No. Property which has no value except for its basic material content (scrap material) may be disposed of by the holding agency by sale or as otherwise provided in § 102-38.70. However, the holding agency should consult the SC(s) selected by the holding agency as to the feasibility of selling the scrap material. Agencies selling scrap property under authority of this subpart are still required to report sales metrics in accordance with eFAS ESC-approved format and content.
§ 102-38.370
What does a holding agency do with property which cannot be sold by its SC?
All reasonable efforts must be afforded the SC to sell the property. If the property remains unsold after the time frame agreed to between the SC and the holding agency, the holding agency may dispose of the property by sale or as otherwise provided in § 102-38.70. The lack of public interest in buying the property is evidence that the sales proceeds would be minimal. Agencies selling property under authority of this subpart are still required to report sales metrics in accordance with eFAS ESC-approved format and content.
Pt. 102-39

# PART 102-39—REPLACEMENT OF PERSONAL PROPERTY PURSUANT TO THE EXCHANGE/SALE AUTHORITY

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
102-39.5
What is the exchange/sale authority?
102-39.10
What does this part cover?
102-39.15
How are the terms “I” and “you” used in this part?
102-39.20
What definitions apply to this part?
102-39.25
Which exchange/sale provisions are subject to deviation?
102-39.30
How do I request a deviation from this part?

# Subpart B—Exchange/Sale Considerations
102-39.35
When should I consider using the exchange/sale authority?
102-39.40
How does the exchange/sale authority differ from the disposal process for excess/surplus personal property?
102-39.45
When should I not use the exchange/sale authority?
102-39.50
How do I determine whether to do an exchange or a sale?
102-39.55
When should I offer property I am exchanging or selling under the exchange/sale authority to other Federal agencies or State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASP)?
102-39.60
What restrictions and prohibitions apply to the exchange/sale of personal property?
102-39.65
What conditions apply to the exchange/sale of personal property?

# Subpart C—Exchange/Sale Methods and Reports
102-39.70
What are the exchange methods?
102-39.75
What are the sales methods?
102-39.80
What are the accounting requirements for the proceeds of sale?
102-39.85
What information am I required to report?
102-39.90
Where do I obtain additional information?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); 40 U.S.C. 503.

# Source:
66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 102-39.5
What is the exchange/sale authority?
The exchange/sale authority is a statutory provision, (40 U.S.C. 503), which states in part: “In acquiring personal property, an executive agency may exchange or sell similar items and may apply the exchange allowance or proceeds of sale in whole or in part payment for the property acquired.”
[73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]
§ 102-39.10
What does this part cover?
This part covers the exchange/sale authority, and applies to all personal property owned by executive agencies worldwide. For the exchange/sale of aircraft parts and hazardous materials, you must meet the requirements in this part and in parts 101-33 and 101-42 of this title.
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 11539, Mar. 11, 2004]
§ 102-39.15
How are the terms “I” and “you” used in this part?
Use of pronouns “I” and “you” throughout this part refer to executive agencies.
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001. Redesignated at 73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]
§ 102-39.20
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Acquire
means to procure or otherwise obtain personal property, including by lease (sometimes known as rent).
Combat material
means arms, ammunition, and implements of war listed in
the U.S. munitions list (22 CFR part 121).
Excess property
means any personal property under the control of any Federal agency that is no longer required for that agency's needs or responsibilities, as determined by the agency head or designee.
Exchange
means to replace personal property by trade or trade-in with the supplier of the replacement property.
Exchange/sale
means to exchange or sell non-excess, non-surplus personal property and apply the exchange allowance or proceeds of sale in whole or in part payment for the acquisition of similar property.
Executive agency
means any executive department or independent establishment in the executive branch of the Government, including any wholly owned Government corporation.
Federal agency
means any executive agency or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under the Architect's direction).
Historic item
means property having added value for display purposes because its historical significance is greater than its fair market value for continued use. Items that are commonly available and remain in use for their intended purpose, such as military aircraft still in use by active or reserve units, are not historic items.
Replacement
means the process of acquiring personal property to be used in place of personal property that is still needed but:
(1) No longer adequately performs the tasks for which it is used; or
(2) Does not meet the agency's need as well as the personal property to be acquired.
Service Life Extension Program (SLEP)
means the modification of a personal property item undertaken to extend the life of the item beyond that which was previously planned. SLEPs extend capital asset life by retrofit, major modification, remanufacturing, betterment, or enhancement.
Similar
means the acquired item(s) and replaced item(s):
(1) Are identical; or
(2) Fall within a single Federal Supply Classification (FSC) Group of property (includes any and all forms of property within a single FSC Group); or
(3) Are parts or containers for similar end items; or
(4) Are designed or constructed for the same general purpose (includes any and all forms of property regardless of the FSC Group to which they are assigned).

# Note 1 to the definition of “similar”:
Only one of the criteria in this definition needs to be met for the property to be considered “similar” for an exchange/sale transaction.
Surplus property
means excess personal property not required for the needs of any Federal agency, as determined by GSA under part 102-37 of this chapter.
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008; 88 FR 25511, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-39.25
Which exchange/sale provisions are subject to deviation?
All of the provisions in this part are subject to deviation (upon presentation of adequate justification) except for those mandated by statute, as described in note 1 to §§ 102-39.60(a) and 102-39.80. See the link on “Exchange/Sale” at
www.gsa.gov/personalpropertypolicy
for additional information on requesting deviations from this part.
[73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 25511, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 102-39.30
How do I request a deviation from this part?
See part 102-2 of this chapter (41 CFR part 102-2) to request a deviation from the requirements of this part.
[73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]

# Subpart B—Exchange/Sale Considerations
§ 102-39.35
When should I consider using the exchange/sale authority?
You should consider using the exchange/sale authority when replacing personal property.
[73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]
§ 102-39.40
How does the exchange/sale authority differ from the disposal process for excess/surplus personal property?
(a) The primary difference is that sales proceeds or exchange allowances may be used to acquire similar replacement personal property that is still needed under the exchange/sale authority as described in this part; whereas under the more frequently used excess/surplus disposal process, you would not be able to use sales proceeds or exchange allowances to acquire replacement personal property.
(b) Your use of the exchange/sale authority is optional and should be considered when needed replacement assets may be acquired under the provisions of this part. If exchange/sale is not practicable (for example, if conducting an exchange/sale transaction is not cost effective), you should dispose of the property through the excess/surplus disposal process by reporting the property as excess, as addressed in part 102-36 of this chapter.
(c) In the excess/surplus disposal process, any net proceeds from the sale of surplus property generally must be forwarded to the miscellaneous receipts account at the United States Treasury, and thus would not be available to you for use in acquiring similar replacement property or for any other purpose. You may use the exchange/sale authority in the acquisition of personal property even if the acquisition is under a services contract, as long as the property acquired under the services contract is similar to the property exchanged or sold (e.g., for a service life extension program (SLEP), exchange allowances or sales proceeds would be available for replacement of similar items, but not for services).
[88 FR 25511, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 102-39.45
When should I not use the exchange/sale authority?
You should not use the exchange/sale authority if the exchange allowance or estimated sales proceeds for the property will be unreasonably low. You must either abandon or destroy such property, or declare the property excess, in accordance with part 102-36 of this chapter. Further, you must not use the exchange/sale authority if the transaction(s) would violate any other applicable statute or regulation.
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 11539, Mar. 11, 2004. Redesignated at 73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]
§ 102-39.50
How do I determine whether to do an exchange or a sale?
You must determine whether an exchange or sale will provide the greater return for the Government. When estimating the return under each method, consider all related administrative and overhead costs.
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001. Redesignated at 73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]
§ 102-39.55
When should I offer property I am exchanging or selling under the exchange/sale authority to other Federal agencies or State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASP)?
If you have property to replace which is eligible for exchange/sale, you should first, to the maximum extent practicable, solicit:
(a) Federal agencies known to use or distribute such property. If a Federal agency is interested in acquiring and paying for the property, you should arrange for a reimbursable transfer. Reimbursable transfers may also be conducted with the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under the Architect's direction, the District of Columbia, and mixed-ownership Government corporations. When conducting a reimbursable transfer, you must:
(1) Do so under terms mutually agreeable to you and the recipient.
(2) Not require reimbursement of an amount greater than the estimated fair market value of the transferred property.
(3) Apply the transfer proceeds in whole or part payment for property acquired to replace the transferred property; and
(b) State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs) known to have an interest in acquiring such property. If a SASP is interested in acquiring the property, you should consider selling it to the SASP by negotiated sale at fixed price under the conditions specified at
§ 102-38.125 of this title. The sales proceeds must be applied in whole or part payment for property acquired to replace the transferred property.
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 11539, Mar. 11, 2004. Redesignated at 73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]
§ 102-39.60
What restrictions and prohibitions apply to the exchange/sale of personal property?
Unless a deviation is requested of and approved by GSA as addressed in part 102-2 of this chapter and the provisions of §§ 102-39.25 and 102-39.30, you must not use the exchange/sale authority for:
(a) The following FSC Groups of personal property:
(1) 10 Weapons.
(2) 11 Nuclear ordinance.
(3) 44 Furnace, Steam Plant, and Drying Equipment; and Nuclear Reactors (FSC Class 4470, Nuclear Reactors only).
(4) 68 Chemical and chemical products.
(5) 84 Clothing, individual equipment, and insignia.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# ):
Under no circumstances will deviations be granted for FSC Class 1005, Guns through 30mm. Deviations are not required for Department of Defense (DoD) property in FSC Groups 10 (for classes other than FSC Class 1005), or any other FSC Group, for which the applicable DoD demilitarization requirements, and any other applicable regulations and statutes are met.
(b) Materials in the National Defense Stockpile (50 U.S.C. 98-98h) or the Defense Production Act inventory (50 U.S.C. App. 2093).
(c) Nuclear Regulatory Commission-controlled materials unless you meet the requirements of § 101-42.1102-4 of this title.
(d) Controlled substances, unless you meet the requirements of § 101-42.1102-3 of this title.
(e) Property with a condition code of scrap, as defined at FMR 102-36.40, except:
(1) Property that had utility and value at the point in time when a determination was made to use the exchange/sale authority;
(2) Property that was otherwise eligible for exchange/sale, but was coded as scrap due to damage (e.g., accident or natural disaster); or
(3) Scrap gold for fine gold.
(f) Property that was originally acquired as excess or forfeited property or from another source other than new procurement, unless such property has been in official use by the acquiring agency for at least 1 year. You may exchange or sell forfeited property in official use for less than 1 year if the head of your agency determines that a continuing valid requirement exists, but the specific item in use no longer meets that requirement, and that exchange or sale meets all other requirements of this part.
(g) Property that is dangerous to public health or safety without first rendering such property innocuous or providing for adequate safeguards as part of the exchange/sale.
(h) Combat material without demilitarizing it or obtaining a demilitarization waiver or other necessary clearances from the Department of Defense Demilitarization Office.
(i) Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Parts (FSCAP) and Critical Safety Items (CSI) unless you meet the provisions of § 102-33.370 of this title.
(j) Acquisition of unauthorized replacement property.
(k) Acquisition of replacement property that violates any:
(1) Restriction on procurement of a commodity or commodities;
(2) Replacement policy or standard prescribed by the President, the Congress, or the Administrator of General Services; or
(3) Contractual obligation.
(l) Vessels subject to 40 U.S.C. 548.
(m) Aircraft and aircraft parts, unless there is full compliance with all exchange/sale provisions in part 102-33 of this chapter (41 CFR part 102-33).
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001; 66 FR 51095, Oct. 5, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 11539, Mar. 11, 2004; 71 FR 20900, Apr. 24, 2006. Redesignated at 73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008; 75 FR 24820, May 6, 2010; 76 FR 67372, Nov. 1, 2011; 88 FR 25511, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 102-39.65
What conditions apply to the exchange/sale of personal property?
You may use the exchange/sale authority only if you meet all of the following conditions:
(a) The property exchanged or sold is similar to the property acquired;
(b) The property exchanged or sold is not excess or surplus and you have a continuing need for similar property;
(c) The property exchanged or sold was not acquired for the principal purpose of exchange or sale;
(d) When replacing personal property, the exchange allowance or sales proceeds from the disposition of that property may only be used to offset the cost of the replacement property, not services;
(e) Your agency documents at the time of exchange or sale (or at the time of acquiring the replacement property if acquisition precedes the exchange or sale) that the exchange allowance or sale proceeds will be applied to the acquisition of replacement property; and
(f) Except for transactions involving books and periodicals in your libraries, you document the basic facts associated with each exchange/sale transaction. At a minimum, the documentation must include:
(1) The FSC Group of the items exchanged or sold, and the items acquired;
(2) The number of items exchanged or sold, and the number of items acquired;
(3) The acquisition cost and exchange allowance or net sales proceeds of the items exchanged or sold, and the acquisition cost of the items acquired;
(4) The date of the transaction(s);
(5) The parties involved; and
(6) A statement that the transactions comply with the requirements of this part 102-39.

# Note to § 102-39.65:
In acquiring items for historical preservation or display at Federal museums, you may exchange historic items in the museum property account without regard to the FSC group, provided the exchange transaction is documented and certified by the head of your agency to be in the best interests of the Government and all other provisions of this part are met. The documentation must contain a determination that the item exchanged and the item acquired are historic items.
[73 FR 50881, Aug. 29, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 25511, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Subpart C—Exchange/Sale Methods and Reports
§ 102-39.70
What are the exchange methods?
Exchange of property may be accomplished by either of the following methods:
(a) The supplier (e.g., a Government agency, commercial or private organization, or an individual) delivers the replacement property to one of your organizational units and removes the property being replaced from that same organizational unit.
(b) The supplier delivers the replacement property to one of your organizational units and removes the property being replaced from a different organizational unit.
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001. Redesignated at 73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]
§ 102-39.75
What are the sales methods?
(a) You must use the methods, terms, and conditions of sale, and the forms prescribed in part 102-38 of this title, in the sale of property being replaced, except for the provisions of §§ 102-38.100 through 102-38.115 of this title regarding negotiated sales. Section 3709, Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5), specifies the following conditions under which property being replaced can be sold by negotiation, subject to obtaining such competition as is feasible:
(1) The reasonable value involved in the contract does not exceed $500; or
(2) Otherwise authorized by law.
(b) You may sell property being replaced by negotiation at fixed prices in accordance with the provisions of § 102-38.120 and 102-38.125 of this title.
[66 FR 48614, Sept. 21, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 11539, Mar. 11, 2004. Redesignated at 73 FR 50880, Aug. 29, 2008]
§ 102-39.80
What are the accounting requirements for exchange allowances or proceeds of sale?
You must account for exchange allowances or proceeds of sale in accordance with the general finance and accounting rules applicable to you. Except as otherwise authorized by law, all exchange allowances or proceeds of sale under this part will be available
during the fiscal year in which the property was exchanged or sold and for one fiscal year thereafter for the purchase of replacement property. Any proceeds of sale not applied to replacement purchases during this time must be deposited in the United States Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. Under no circumstances will deviations be granted for this section.
[73 FR 50881, Aug. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 24820, May 6, 2010; 88 FR 25511, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 102-39.85
What information am I required to report?
You must submit, within 90 calendar days after the close of each fiscal year (FY), an exchange/sale report using the online Personal Property Reporting Tool template found at
https://www.property.reporting.gov.
This template provides the specific information needed for your agency's report. You can contact the GSA Help Desk at
help.PPRT@gsa.gov
if you need assistance accessing the online reporting tool. All reports, including negative reports, must be submitted electronically through the Personal Property Reporting Tool. Transactions involving books and periodicals in your libraries need not be reported.
[88 FR 25511, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 102-39.90
Where do I obtain additional information?
Additional information is provided at the GSA websites
www.gsa.gov/bulletin
and
www.gsa.gov/exchangesale.
[88 FR 25511, Apr. 27, 2023]
Pt. 102-40

# PART 102-40—UTILIZATION AND DISPOSITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIREMENTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-40.5
What does this part cover?
102-40.10
What is the governing authority for this part?
102-40.15
Who must comply with the provisions in this part?
102-40.20
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
102-40.25
How do we request a deviation from these requirements and who can approve it?

# Definitions
102-40.30
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Responsibilities
102-40.35
What types of personal property require special handling?
102-40.40
What are our responsibilities concerning personal property requiring special handling?
102-40.45
What must we do when we have identified personal property with special handling requirements?
102-40.50
What must we do when we no longer need personal property with special handling requirements?
102-40.55
Do we report all excess personal property with special handling requirements to GSA?
102-40.60
May we reassign hazardous materials?
102-40.65
Who is responsible for the custody of hazardous materials and property requiring special handling?
102-40.70
Who is responsible for the care and handling of hazardous materials and property requiring special handling?

# Subpart C—Transfer and Donation of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
102-40.75
What must we do when reporting excess personal property with special handling requirements?
102-40.80
Is personal property requiring special handling available for transfer or donation?
102-40.85
Is donee certification required for the donation of personal property requiring special handling?
102-40.90
Must we establish additional requirements for the inspection of personal property with special handling requirements?
102-40.95
Who pays for the costs incident to the transfer of personal property with special handling requirements?

# Subpart D—Sale of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
102-40.100
May we sell personal property with special handling requirements?
102-40.105
May we use any sales method to sell personal property that requires special handling?
102-40.110
What must we include in the sales terms and conditions when selling personal property with special handling requirements?
102-40.115
Are certifications required from the purchaser when selling personal property with special handling requirements?
102-40.120
What precautions must we take during the sales process for personal property requiring special handling?
102-40.125
May we dispose of personal property requiring special handling by abandonment or destruction?

# Subpart E—Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
102-40.130
What categories of personal property require special handling?
102-40.135
How do we manage acid-contaminated and explosive-contaminated property?
102-40.140
How do we handle all-terrain vehicles (ATVs)?
102-40.145
How do we handle ammunition and ammunition components?
102-40.150
How do we handle animals and plants?
102-40.155
How do we handle asbestos?
102-40.160
How do we handle controlled substances?
102-40.165
How do we handle drugs, biologicals, and reagents other than controlled substances?
102-40.170
How do we handle electronic products?
102-40.175
How do we handle firearms?
102-40.180
How do we handle hazardous materials?
102-40.185
How do we handle lead-containing paints and items bearing lead-containing paint?
102-40.190
How do we handle medical devices?
102-40.195
How do we handle Munitions List Items (MLIs)?
102-40.200
How do we handle Commerce Control List Items (CCLIs)?
102-40.205
How do we handle national stockpile material?
102-40.210
How do we handle Nuclear Regulatory Commission-controlled materials?
102-40.215
How do we handle ozone depleting substances (ODSs)?
102-40.220
How do we handle polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)?
102-40.225
How do we handle precious metals?
102-40.230
How do we handle universal waste(s) (UWs)?
102-40.235
How do we handle motor vehicles not suitable for highway use?
Appendix A to Part 102-40—Federal Supply Classes (FSC) Composed Predominantly of Hazardous Items
Appendix B to Part 102-40—Federal Supply Classes and Groups Which Contain a Significant Number of Hazardous Items

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c).

# Source:
80 FR 7353, Feb. 10, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-40.5
What does this part cover?
This part provides guidance regarding the utilization, transfer, donation, sale, and other disposal of Government personal property with special handling requirements (
i.e.,
hazardous materials, dangerous property, etc.) located in the United States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau. For guidance regarding the disposal of personal property located outside of these areas, see §§ 102-36.380 through 102-36.400 of this subchapter; however, the disposal of personal property located outside of these areas should conform to the provisions in this part, whenever feasible, in the interest of promoting safety, security, and environmental stewardship.
§ 102-40.10
What is the governing authority for this part?
40 U.S.C. 121(c) authorizes the Administrator of General Services to prescribe regulations necessary to perform functions under this part.
§ 102-40.15
Who must comply with the provisions in this part?
All executive agencies must comply with the provisions of this part unless authorized by specific, separate statutory authority to do otherwise. Also, pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 549(b)(1), state agencies for surplus property (SASPs) must comply with the provisions of this part related to the donation of surplus property with special handling requirements. Legislative and judicial agencies are encouraged to follow these provisions.
§ 102-40.20
To whom do “we,” “you,” and their variants refer?
The pronouns “we,” “you,” and their variants throughout this part refer to the executive agency, or other entity using these regulations, unless otherwise indicated.
§ 102-40.25
How do we request a deviation from these requirements and who can approve it?
See §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter to request a deviation from the requirements of this part.

# Definitions
§ 102-40.30
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Acid-contaminated property
means property that may cause burns or toxicosis when improperly handled due to acid residues adhering to or trapped within the material.
Ammunition
as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(17), means ammunition or cartridge cases, primers, bullets, or propellant powder designed for use in any firearm.
Ammunition components
means the individual parts of ammunition, including cartridge cases, primers, bullets/projectiles, and propellant powder.
Biologicals
means hazardous materials associated with the products and operations of applied biology and/or biochemistry, especially serums, vaccines, etc., produced from microorganisms.
Certified electronic product
means any electronic product which bears the manufacturer's certification label or tag (21 CFR 1010.2) indicating that the product meets applicable radiation safety performance standards prescribed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under 21 CFR part 1020.
Commerce Control List Item (CCLI)
means property identified on the Commerce Control List (15 CFR part 774, supp. 1) subject to export controls under the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 App. U.S.C. 2401-2420) and implemented by the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 730). Items may be placed on the list for reasons including, but not limited to, technology transfer, scarcity of materials, crime control, and national security.
Controlled substances
means—
(1) Any narcotic, depressant, stimulant, or hallucinogenic drug, or any other drug or substance included in Schedules I, II, III, IV, or V of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), except exempt chemical preparations and mixtures and excluded substances contained in 21 CFR part 1308; or
(2) Any other drug or substance that the Attorney General determines to be subject to control under Subchapter I of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801,
et seq.
); or
(3) Any other drug or substance that by international treaty, convention, or protocol is to be controlled by the United States.
Demilitarization
means, as defined by the Department of Defense (DOD) in the Defense Material Disposition Manual, DOD 4160.21-M, to be the act of destroying the military offensive or defensive advantages inherent in certain types of equipment or material. The term includes mutilation, dumping at sea, scrapping, melting, burning, or alteration designed to prevent the further use of this equipment and material for its originally intended military or lethal purpose and applies equally to material in unserviceable or serviceable condition that has been screened through an Inventory Control Point and declared excess or foreign excess.
Electronic Product
means any item powered by electricity that has logic circuitry enabling the item to perform its intended function.
Explosive-contaminated property
means property that may ignite or explode when exposed to shock, flame, sparks, or other high temperature sources due to residual explosive material in joints, angles, cracks, or around bolts.
Extremely hazardous material
means property hazardous to the extent that it generally requires special handling such as licensing and training of handlers, protective clothing, and special containers and storage. Because of its extreme flammability, toxicity, corrosivity or other perilous qualities, it could constitute an immediate danger or threat to life and property and which usually have specialized uses under controlled conditions. It is also material which have been determined by the holding agency to endanger public health and safety or the environment if released to the general public.
Firearm,
as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(3), means:
(1) Any weapon (including a starter gun) which will or is designed to or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive;
(2) The frame or receiver of any such weapon;
(3) Any firearm muffler or firearm silencer; or
(4) Any destructive device. Such term does not include an antique firearm.
Hazardous material
means property that is deemed a
hazardous material,
chemical substance or mixture, or hazardous waste under the Federal
hazardous materials
transportation law (49 U.S.C. 5101,
et seq.
), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. 6901,
et seq.
), or the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (15 U.S.C. 2601,
et seq.
). Generally,
hazardous materials
have one or more of the following characteristics:
(1) Are carcinogens (according to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations at 29 CFR part 1910), toxic or highly toxic agents, reproductive toxins, irritants, corrosives, hepatotoxins, nephrotoxins, neurotoxins, agents that act on the hematopoietic system, and agents that damage the lungs, skin, eyes, or mucous membranes;
(2) Are combustible liquids, compressed gases, explosives, flammable liquids, flammable solids, organic peroxides, oxidizers, pyrophorics, unstable (reactive) or water-reactive;
(3) Are radioactive to the extent it requires special handling;
(4) Identify hazards on associated SDS, MSDS, or HMIS documentation;
(5) Possess special characteristics which, in the opinion of the holding agency, could be hazardous to health, safety, or the environment if improperly handled, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise improperly used.
(6) Materials that, in the course of normal handling, use or storage, may produce or release dusts, gases, fumes, vapors, mists or smoke having any of the above characteristics.
Hazardous waste
means those materials or substances, the handling and disposal of which are governed by 40 CFR part 261. Hazardous materials generally become
hazardous wastes
when they are no longer suitable for their intended or valid alternate purpose, or for resource recovery. Some solid (non-hazardous) wastes are predetermined
hazardous wastes
upon generation (40 CFR part 261, subpart D); some are determined
hazardous wastes
when they exhibit ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity, or extraction procedure toxicity. Hazardous materials having an expired shelf life should be reclassified as
hazardous waste
if required by Federal and/or state environmental laws or regulations. Before reclassification, the shelf life may be extended if supported by results of tests and recertification performed by authorized personnel in accordance with applicable regulations.
Lead-containing paint
means paint or other similar surface coating material containing lead or lead compounds in excess of 0.06 percent of the weight of the total nonvolatile content of the paint or the weight of the dried paint film.
Medical device
means any health-care product that does not achieve its principal intended purposes by chemical action in or on the body or by being metabolized.
Medical devices
are categorized in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301,
et seq.
). Potential hazards of these devices include chemical and heavy metal hazards, and biohazards.
Munitions List Item (MLI)
means property and related technical data designated as defense articles and defense services pursuant to sections 2778 and 2794(7) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778 and 2794(7)).
Noncertified Electronic Product
means any electronic product for which there is an applicable radiation safety performance standard prescribed or hereafter prescribed by the FDA under 21 CFR part 1020, and which the manufacturer has not certified as meeting such standard. The non-certification may be due to either:
(1) Manufacture of the product before the effective date of the standard; or
(2) The product was exempted from the applicable standard and is so labeled.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission-Controlled Material
means material subject to the controls of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) pursuant to
the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974. The materials are defined as follows:
(1)
Byproduct material.
Any radioactive material (except special nuclear material) yielded in or made radioactive by exposure to the radiation, incident to the process of producing or utilizing special nuclear material. (See 10 CFR part 30).
(2)
Source material.
Uranium or thorium, or any combination thereof, in any physical or chemical form or ores which contain by weight, one-twentieth of one percent (0.05%) or more of uranium, thorium, or any combination thereof. Source material does not include special nuclear material. (See 10 CFR part 40).
(3)
Special nuclear material.
Plutonium, uranium 233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or in the isotope 235, any other materials which the NRC, pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011,
et seq.
), including any amendments thereto, determined to be special nuclear material, or any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing, but does not include source material. (See 10 CFR part 70).
Perishable
means an item subject to rapid deterioration, spoilage or death, when removed from special storage conditions or care, such as fresh food, animals, and plants.
Precious metal
means gold, silver, and platinum group metals (platinum, palladium, iridium, rhodium, osmium, and ruthenium).
Radiation Safety Performance Standards.
Certain electronic items or components emitting hazardous electronic radiation are subject to performance standards (21 CFR part 1020). You must follow FDA policies related to acquisition, use, and disposal of items identified by the FDA or other authority for which performance standards are established. See 21 CFR 1000.15 for examples of electronic items that are required to follow
radiation safety performance standards.
Several types of electronic radiation (and examples of items that may emit that type of radiation) include: ionizing electromagnetic radiation (television receivers); ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation (tanning and therapeutic lamps); infrared and microwave electromagnetic radiation (certain alarm systems); and, laser emissions (certain cauterizing, burning, and welding devices).
Reagent
means any hazardous material used to detect or measure another substance or to convert one substance into another by means of the reactions it causes.
Safety Data Sheet (SDS)
means the documentation, as required by 29 CFR 1910.1200, identifying the potential hazards associated with the specific category of product or property. Sources of SDS information may be the manufacturer, distributor, or the procuring agency. Related documentation, such as a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) may also provide information on hazards associated with assets handled under this part.
Universal Waste(s)
mean(s) any of the following hazardous waste that is/are managed under the universal waste requirements of 40 CFR part 273:
(1) Batteries as described in 40 CFR 273.2;
(2) Pesticides as described in 40 CFR 273.3;
(3) Mercury-containing equipment (including thermostats) as described in 40 CFR 273.4 and as defined at 40 CFR 273.9; and
(4) Light bulbs containing mercury (such as fluorescent bulbs) as described in 40 CFR 273.5.

# Subpart B—Responsibilities
§ 102-40.35
What types of personal property require special handling?
Personal property requiring special handling includes property containing hazardous materials or property which exhibits dangerous characteristics such that improper use, storage, transportation or disposal may lead to potential safety, health, environmental, economic, or national security risks. In many situations, the use, storage, transportation or disposal of these items is governed by Federal, state, and local laws. Personal property requiring special handling may also include animals and plants which may perish if not handled appropriately, as well as perishable products that may lose their utility if not handled appropriately.
§ 102-40.40
What are our responsibilities concerning personal property requiring special handling?
You are responsible for—
(a) Identifying and accounting for property with special handling requirements;
(b) Complying with applicable Federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning the handling, storage, labeling, use, and final disposition of such property;
(c) Ensuring adequate storage and safeguarding of such property,
e.g.,
secured or limited access storage areas, warning signs, and protective clothing and equipment; and
(d) Transporting materials requiring special handling in accordance with Department of Transportation (DOT), EPA, state and local regulations.
§ 102-40.45
What must we do when we have identified personal property with special handling requirements?
You must properly mark, tag, or label personal property with special handling requirements in accordance with applicable Federal law, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements (29 CFR 1910.1200), regarding the actual or potential hazard associated with the property, and ensure that such information is maintained and perpetuated in the official agency property records. Labeling requirements for substances that are excluded from the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200 are found in the references listed in 29 CFR 1910.1200(b)(5) and (6).
§ 102-40.50
What must we do when we no longer need personal property with special handling requirements?
Except for the items listed in § 102-40.55, you must report excess personal property with special handling requirements that you no longer need to GSA for Federal and donation screening (see § 102-36.215 of this subchapter for how to report excess personal property to GSA). The report to GSA must clearly identify property requiring special handling, and all related hazards, precautions, and handling requirements related to this property. You must dispose of property not required to be reported to GSA in accordance with applicable Federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and your agency procedures. See § 102-40.125 for policy regarding disposal of property requiring special handling by abandonment or destruction. Disposal must be accomplished so as to preserve as much as possible, any civilian utility or commercial value of the property.
§ 102-40.55
Do we report all excess personal property with special handling requirements to GSA?
No. Because of their characteristics, certain items are not subject to the usual disposal procedures. You are not required to report to GSA excess personal property with special handling requirements in any of the following categories listed below.
(a)
Extremely hazardous personal property.
You must dispose of extremely hazardous personal property not reported to GSA in accordance with applicable demilitarization requirements, EPA regulations, state and local laws or regulations, and other Federal laws, regulations or guidelines. However, if time and circumstances permit, this material may be reported to GSA to optimize use of this already-acquired material. When an item that is determined to be extremely hazardous property becomes excess, the holding agency should notify the appropriate GSA regional personal property office, which will determine if the property should be reported using Report of Excess Personal Property, Standard Form (SF) 120 or another method. At a minimum, you must identify the item, and describe the actual or potential hazard(s) associated with the handling, storage, or use of the item(s). This GSA regional office will determine the utilization, donation, sales or other disposal requirements, and provide appropriate guidance to the holding agency.
(b)
Hazardous wastes.
You must dispose of hazardous wastes not reported to GSA in accordance with applicable demilitarization requirements, EPA regulations, state and local laws or regulations, and other Federal laws, regulations or guidelines.
(c)
Perishables.
You may dispose of perishables with no further utility by
abandonment or destruction when it is not detrimental to public health or safety (see the abandonment/destruction provisions in § 102-40.125 and in part 102-36 of this subchapter). Although there is no requirement to report perishables to GSA if their spoilage is imminent (see § 102-36.220), perishables that have a longer time before spoilage and are clearly able to be used may be reported to GSA in accordance with part 102-36. When reporting perishables to GSA, you should annotate the Report for Excess Personal Property, SF 120 or electronic reporting form to show whether there is a specific expiration date for the perishable item and whether such date is an original or extended date.
(d)
EPA research and cleanup materials.
The EPA, under its independent authority, may transfer accountability for hazardous materials deemed by EPA to be research materials to Federal, state, and local agencies, research institutions, or commercial businesses to conduct research or to clean-up a contaminated site.
§ 102-40.60
May we reassign hazardous materials?
Yes, when hazardous materials are reassigned within an executive agency, information on the actual or potential hazard must be included in the documentation effecting the reassignment, and the recipient organization must perpetuate in the inventory or control records visibility of the nature of the actual or potential hazard.
§ 102-40.65
Who is responsible for the custody of hazardous materials and property requiring special handling?
The holding agency is responsible for the custody of hazardous materials and property requiring special handling. Custody of these items may be transferred in whole or in part to another Federal agency with that receiving agency's consent.
§ 102-40.70
Who is responsible for the care and handling of hazardous materials and property requiring special handling?
(a) The holding agency is responsible for the care and handling of hazardous materials and property requiring special handling until the time the property has:
(1) Completed the disposal process; and
(2) Been transferred, donated, sold or destroyed, as authorized by this part. The nature of this material may require extra precautions, processes or equipment, thereby increasing the cost of care and handling. The costs associated with performing care and handling may be charged to the Federal agency or donation recipient in accordance with § 102-40.95.
(b) When transferring personal property to another federal agency, failure to disclose hazards or special handling requirements may result in the transferring agency being liable for additional costs incurred by the recipient agency, when authorized by applicable law and policy.

# Subpart C—Transfer and Donation of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
§ 102-40.75
What must we do when reporting excess personal property with special handling requirements?
You must include with your report of excess personal property a complete description of the characteristics of the property, use or disposal restrictions, and the actual or potential hazard(s) associated with the use, handling, or storage of the item. You should include a Safety Data Sheet (SDS), Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), or Hazardous Material Information System (HMIS) record (or equivalent) if available. The physical item which requires special handling must also be marked so as to identify its special characteristic(s).
§ 102-40.80
Is personal property requiring special handling available for transfer or donation?
Generally, yes, with the exceptions contained in this part, personal property requiring special handling is available for transfer or donation in accordance with parts 102-36 and 102-37 of this subchapter, respectively. Surplus
personal property identified as hazardous material not required for transfer as excess personal property to Federal agencies should normally be made available for donation. However, state agencies should not acquire hazardous materials without first ensuring that there are known eligible donees for such property. Moreover, all transfer and donation documents must include a complete description of the actual or potential hazard(s) associated with the handling, storage, use, or disposal of the item. Also, any continuing restrictions or instructions must be clearly identified on these documents.
§ 102-40.85
Is donee certification required for the donation of personal property requiring special handling?
Yes, the transfer document must contain a full description of the actual or potential hazard(s) and restriction(s) associated with the handling, storage, use, transportation or disposal of the item. GSA will not approve a donation to a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP) unless an eligible donee has been identified. This subpart does not prohibit a SASP from bringing an item requiring special handling into its warehouse or other place of storage, provided that this storage is of a temporary nature, that the storage arrangement is agreeable to all parties involved in the donation, and that the storage location has the necessary facilities, gear, and trained personnel to handle, store, protect, and transport the property. In addition, the following certification (or an equivalent) must be signed by the donee:
I (We), the undersigned, hereby certify that the donee has knowledge and understanding of the nature of the property hereby donated which requires special handling, and will comply with all applicable Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations with respect to the care, handling, storage, shipment, and disposal of the property. The donee agrees and certifies that the United States shall not be liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of the donee or the donee's employees, or any other person arising from or incident to the donation of the property, its use, or its final disposition. Additionally, the donee agrees and certifies to hold the United States harmless from and shall indemnify the United States against any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the donation of the property, its use, or final disposition.
Name and title of Donee (print or type)
Signature of Donee
§ 102-40.90
Must we establish additional requirements for the inspection of personal property with special handling requirements?
Yes, you are responsible for establishing appropriate safeguards and providing instructions for personal protection to screeners who are inspecting property with special handling requirements. Also, it is the responsibility of the state agency and/or donee to comply with DOT regulations (49 CFR parts 171 through 177) when transporting hazardous material. Any costs incident to repacking or recontainment will be borne by the state agency and/or donee. Also, state agencies and/or donees will comply with EPA's Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (40 CFR parts 261 through 265) including its application to transporters, storers, users, and permitting of hazardous wastes.
§ 102-40.95
Who pays for the costs incident to the transfer of personal property with special handling requirements?
You may charge the Federal agency or the SASP any costs you incur in packing, preparing for shipment, and transporting property with special handling requirements (see parts 102-36 and 102-37 of this subchapter).

# Subpart D—Sale of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
§ 102-40.100
May we sell personal property with special handling requirements?
Generally, yes, you may sell personal property with special handling requirements through an authorized Sales Center, provided that the property has been reported in accordance with subpart B and C of this part, when you:
(a) Comply with applicable Federal, state, and local laws and regulations,
including part 102-38 of this subchapter; and
(b) Follow applicable precautions including but not limited to proper packaging of the property, labeling with appropriate warning signs, and allowing for inspection of the property with proper safeguards.
§ 102-40.105
May we use any sales method to sell personal property that requires special handling?
Yes, unless specifically restricted as to sales methods by provisions in subpart E of this part, you may use any of the sales methods provided in part 102-38 of this subchapter, but you must:
(a) Advertise and conduct sales of such property separately from other sales;
(b) Store and display such property in a safe and controlled manner as required by applicable statutes and/or regulations;
(c) Indicate if the property is being sold only for scrap, and/or if there are any use requirements or restrictions;
(d) Comply with the requirements of other Federal, state, and local laws and regulations; and
(e) Conduct the sale through an agency authorized to sell Federal property in accordance with part 102-38 of this subchapter.
§ 102-40.110
What must we include in the sales terms and conditions when selling personal property with special handling requirements?
In addition to the recommended sales terms and conditions contained in part 102-38 of this subchapter, when selling personal property with special handling requirements you must include the following in the sales terms and conditions:
(a) A full description of the actual or potential hazard(s) associated with handling, storage, or use of the item, as well as any use requirements, restrictions, or limitations;
(b) An SDS, MSDS, or HMIS when available;
(c) A certification, executed by a duly authorized agency official, that the item is appropriately labeled and packaged in accordance with applicable regulatory and statutory requirements;
(d) Any additional requirements the purchaser must comply with prior to removal,
e.g.,
demilitarization on-site;
(e) The necessary steps the purchaser must take in the handling and transportation of the property when the property is sold; and
(f) A statement that it is the purchaser's responsibility to comply with all applicable Federal, state, local, and export laws and regulations to ensure the proper registration, licensing, possession, transportation, and subsequent use, resale or disposal of the property. You must use the following certification (or an equivalent certification) when offering for sale an item requiring special handling. Failure to sign the certification may result in the bid being rejected as nonresponsive:
The undersigned bidder hereby certifies that if awarded a contract under this invitation for bids, the bidder will comply with all applicable Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations with respect to the care, handling, storage, shipment, resale, export, or other use of the material hereby purchased. The bidder will hold the United States harmless from and indemnify the United States against any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or other claims of any nature arising from or incident to the handling, use, storage, shipment, resale, export, or other disposition of the items purchased.
Name of bidder (print or type)
Signature of bidder
§ 102-40.115
Are certifications required from the purchaser when selling personal property with special handling requirements?
Yes, in addition to receiving a certification that the purchaser will comply with all Federal, state, and local laws and regulations with respect to the care, handling, storage, shipment, and disposal of personal property with special handling requirements (see certification at § 102-40.110), you must obtain from the purchaser a certification that the purchaser will comply with any additional requirements associated with the property, such as demilitarization, export controls on CCLI, or mutilation requirements for flight
safety critical aircraft parts. These additional requirements may be imposed by any law, regulation, or policy.
§ 102-40.120
What precautions must we take during the sales process for personal property requiring special handling?
(a) It is your responsibility to prepare items with special handling requirements for sale, provide all necessary information to ensure that prospective bidders are informed of hazards and special processing requirements, and identify precautions that bidders should take to protect themselves while inspecting, packing or moving items with special handling requirements. You must make any safety gear or equipment needed during the sales process available to prospective bidders and others involved in the inspection, packing or moving of these items.
(b) Unless authorized by the appropriate GSA regional office, you must not sell extremely hazardous property unless the property is rendered innocuous or adequate safeguards are provided. Such property must be rendered innocuous in a manner so as to preserve the utility or commercial value of the property.
§ 102-40.125
May we dispose of personal property requiring special handling by abandonment or destruction?
Yes, you may dispose of personal property requiring special handling by abandonment or destruction. However, in addition to the requirements for the abandonment or destruction of property in §§ 102-36.305 through 102-36.330 of this subchapter, you must also satisfy applicable Federal, state, and local waste disposal and air and water pollution control standards, laws, and regulations. You must ensure that such property, including empty hazardous material containers, not be abandoned until made safe, demilitarized, reduced to scrap, or otherwise made innocuous. You should also preserve, as much as possible, any civilian utility or commercial value of the property (see § 102-40.50.) National security classified items must be declassified or destroyed in accordance with holding agency regulations.

# Subpart E—Categories of Personal Property With Special Handling Requirements
§ 102-40.130
What categories of personal property require special handling?
Many categories of personal property have special handling requirements in compliance with applicable Federal, state, and local regulations and ordinances for their handling, transportation, storage, disposal and use. See appendix A to this part for a listing of Federal Supply Classifications (FSCs) containing predominately hazardous items and appendix B to this part for a listing of FSCs containing a significant number of hazardous items. See §§ 102-40.130 through 102-40.235 for special handling instructions for some categories of property for which Federal property managers are likely to have responsibility.
§ 102-40.135
How do we manage acid-contaminated and explosive-contaminated property?
(a) Acid-contaminated or explosive-contaminated property is considered extremely hazardous property and is not reported to GSA for subsequent transfer or donation. However, you should notify GSA of this property in accordance with § 102-40.55. If the property is not transferred or donated, you may dispose of such property by sale, in accordance with subpart D of this part and with the condition that the purchaser sufficiently decontaminates the property to the degree that it is no longer extremely hazardous. Also, such property must be properly labeled in accordance with § 102-40.45 and should not be abandoned. When destroyed, such destruction should be accomplished under § 102-40.125.
(b) When selling acid or explosive contaminated property, the sales terms and sales documentation must both include the following certification, or an equivalent certification, which must be signed by the successful bidder.
It is hereby certified that the undersigned purchaser will comply with all the applicable Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations with respect to the care, handling, storage, and shipment, resale, export, and other use of the materials, hereby
purchased, and that the purchaser is a user of, or dealer in, said materials. This certification is made in accordance with and subject to the penalties of Title 18, Section 1001, the United States Code, Crime and Criminal Procedures.
Name of purchaser (print or type)
Signature of purchaser
[80 FR 7353, Feb. 10, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-40.140
How do we handle all-terrain vehicles (ATVs)?
(a) Three-wheeled and four-wheeled all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) can be exchanged with a dealer under the provisions of part 102-39 of this subchapter. Three-wheeled ATVs not exchanged must be mutilated in a manner to prevent operational use and may be sold only as salvage or scrap. Four-wheeled ATVs not exchanged may be offered for transfer and donation only when documented in accordance with §§ 102-40.75 and 102-40.80. In addition, any transfer or donation documentation for four-wheeled ATVs must require the recipient to acknowledge that the recipient will follow regulations and guidelines published by the Consumer Product Safety Commission related to these items, including age recommendations, restrictions on usage, and operator training. Four-wheeled ATVs not exchanged, transferred, or donated may be offered for sale as either salvage or scrap only after they have been mutilated in a manner to prevent operational use. Four-wheeled ATVs must not be released to the public after donee use, nor may they be released to the public after Federal use if the ATVs are not donated.
(b) A donation transfer document must contain a full description of the actual or potential hazard(s) and restriction(s) associated with the handling, storage, use, transportation or disposal of the item. In addition, the following certification (or an equivalent) must be signed by the donee:
I (We), the undersigned, hereby certify that the donee has knowledge and understanding of the nature of the property hereby donated which requires special handling, and will comply with all applicable Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations with respect to the care, handling, storage, shipment, and disposal of the property. The donee agrees and certifies that the United States shall not be liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of the donee or the donee's employees, or any other person arising from or incident to the donation of the property, its use, or its final disposition. Additionally, the donee agrees and certifies to hold the United States harmless from and shall indemnify the United States against any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the donation of the property, its use, or final disposition.
Name and title of Donee (print or type)
Signature of Donee
§ 102-40.145
How do we handle ammunition and ammunition components?
(a) Report usable ammunition to GSA for possible transfer to a Federal agency. You must not donate surplus ammunition, but you may donate surplus ammunition components to eligible donation recipients. You may sell non-expended ammunition and ammunition components (expended and non-expended) only to companies licensed to perform manufacturing/remanufacturing processes under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 923 or other Federal law or regulation or to companies allowed to purchase ammunition components under local and state laws. If the ammunition is regulated pursuant to the National Firearms Act (NFA) or any other Federal regulation, then the ammunition can only be disposed of in accordance with applicable regulation. Ammunition greater than .50 caliber can, in some instances, be regulated under the NFA. You must follow any demilitarization requirements. When selling ammunition and ammunition components, the sales terms and sales documentation must both include the following certification, or an equivalent certification, which must be signed by the successful bidder:
Item No. __contains ammunition or ammunition components offered for sale in this invitation. The undersigned certifies that they will comply with all applicable local, state, and Federal laws and regulations concerning ammunition or ammunition components.
If the item being sold is scrap ammunition, the undersigned certifies that they are licensed to perform manufacturing/remanufacturing under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 923 or other Federal law or regulation.
If the item being sold is a scrap ammunition component, the undersigned certifies that these scrap ammunition components will not be used for the original manufactured purpose.
License issuing authority and license number
Name of bidder (print or type)
Signature of bidder
(b) In addition to sales as described in paragraph (a) of this section, expended ammunition cartridge cases may also be transferred or donated when the recipient certifies that the spent brass will be reloaded and used only for law enforcement purposes. If there is no Federal or state donation interest in the cases, and a sale of the scrap is not feasible, cartridge cases may be disposed of using abandonment or destruction procedures under § 102-40.125. The recipient must certify that the expended cartridge cases will not be used for the original manufactured purpose.
(c) The transportation of primers or propellant powder is governed by 49 CFR parts 171 through 180.
[80 FR 7353, Feb. 10, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 67867, 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-40.150
How do we handle animals and plants?
(a) Whenever possible, you should report live animals and plants to GSA for transfer, donation or sale. They are, however, considered perishables and may be disposed of by abandonment or destruction procedures in accordance with the authority contained in § 102-40.125. Abandonment or destruction procedures may be used for animals other than those specifically addressed below, where warranted for humane purposes.
(b) Unfit horses and mules may be humanely euthanized or put out to pasture in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 1308 and agency policies. Transfers of unfit horses or mules to Federal agencies must be conducted in accordance with part 102-36 of this subchapter. In the event that a transfer of these animals can be made to a humane organization, the transfer may be conducted under procedures contained in part 102-37 of this subchapter.
(c) Under 40 U.S.C. 555, you may transfer canines formerly used in the performance of law enforcement duties to an individual experienced in handling canines in the performance of those duties, in accordance with agency policy and procedures. For example, the “individual” may be the current handler of that canine or a previous handler.
§ 102-40.155
How do we handle asbestos?
(a) Items with asbestos content must be handled in accordance with the EPA regulations found at 40 CFR part 61, subpart M. Further information on laws and regulations related to asbestos may be found at
www.epa.gov/asbestos.
(b) Report to GSA excess personal property containing nonfriable asbestos, as defined in 40 CFR 61.141, for subsequent transfer, donation or sale in accordance with parts 102-36 through 102-38 of this subchapter. Nonfriable asbestos materials cannot:
(1) When dry, be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by hand pressure; or
(2) Contain asbestos which is bonded or otherwise rendered unavailable for release into the atmosphere through normal usage. All disposal documentation related to personal property containing nonfriable asbestos, such as exchange/sale, reporting, transfer, donation, and sales documents, must include a warning statement that the item may contain asbestos and must not be cut, crushed, sanded, disassembled or otherwise altered. The property must also be labeled or marked with such warning statements.
(c) You must use a warning such as the following on the documentation reporting or requesting the exchange/sale, transfer, donation or sale of an item containing asbestos:

# WARNING
This property contains asbestos. Inhaling asbestos fibers may cause cancer. Do not release fibers by cutting, crushing, sanding, disassembling, or otherwise altering this property. End users and new owners, if transferred, should be warned. OSHA standards for personnel protection are codified at 29 CFR 1910.1001. EPA disposal standards are codified at 40 CFR part 61. State and local authorities may have additional restrictions on the disposal of items containing asbestos.
(d) Property containing asbestos should be labeled with a warning such as the following:

# WARNING
This property contains asbestos. Inhaling asbestos fibers may cause cancer. Do not release fibers by cutting, crushing, sanding, disassembling, or otherwise altering this property.
(e) Nonfriable asbestos that is not transferred, donated, or sold may be abandoned as provided in § 102-40.125 and part 102-36 of this subchapter. If destroyed by burial, items containing friable or nonfriable asbestos must be disposed of by burial at a site that meets the requirements of 40 CFR 61.154.
(f) Friable asbestos materials that contain more than one percent asbestos by weight and can, by hand pressure, be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder, thus allowing for potential release of asbestos fibers into the air. Property containing friable asbestos normally is not to be transferred, donated or sold. Notwithstanding these provisions, holding agencies, on a case-by-case basis, may request approval from GSA Central Office, with consultation from the EPA, to transfer, donate or sell such property if in the judgment of the holding agency, special circumstances warrant such action.
(g) Excess personal property known to contain friable asbestos shall neither be reported to GSA nor transferred among Federal agencies excepted as noted in paragraph (f) of this section.
(h) Surplus property containing friable asbestos is to be neither donated nor sold. Such property is disposed of under paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) Excess and surplus property containing friable asbestos is to be disposed of by burial in a site that meets the EPA requirements of 40 CFR 61.156. Holding agencies should contact the nearest office of the EPA for assistance with regard to the disposal of materials containing asbestos, with the exception of DOD, who should contact the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA).
§ 102-40.160
How do we handle controlled substances?
(a) You are not required to report excess controlled substances to GSA, but you should make reasonable efforts to transfer them to Federal agencies in accordance with Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) regulations (21 CFR part 1307). The recipient agency must certify that it is authorized to procure the particular controlled substance and provide the registration number on the Certificate of Registration, issued by the DEA. See the transfer procedures in FMR part 102-36 (41 CFR part 102-36).
(b) You must not donate controlled substances.
(c) In accordance with sales procedures specified in part 102-38 of this subchapter, and under the conditions specified in this paragraph, you may sell controlled substances by sealed bid only, to bidders who have registered with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, or dispense of the particular controlled substance. As a condition of sale, the bidder must submit verification of DEA registration. Prior to finalizing the sale, you must obtain confirmation from the DEA of the bidder's status as a registered manufacturer, distributor or dispenser of controlled substances.
(1) The invitation for bids for controlled substances must list only controlled substances and must only be distributed to bidders who are registered with the DEA, Department of Justice, to manufacture, distribute or dispense of the controlled substances being sold. In addition, the following statement, or an equivalent statement, must be included in the sales terms and conditions when selling controlled substances:
The bidder shall complete, sign, and return with their bid, the certificate as contained in this invitation. No award will be made or sale consummated until after this agency
has obtained from the Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice, verification that the bidder is registered to manufacture, distribute, or dispense those controlled substances which are the subject of the award.
(2) The following certification, or an equivalent certification, must be made a part of the invitation for bids and contract to be completed and signed by the bidder and returned with the bid. Failure to sign the certification may result in the bid being rejected as nonresponsive:
The undersigned bidder certifies that they are Registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice, as a manufacturer, distributor, or dispenser of the controlled substances for which a bid is submitted and the registration number is: __.
This certification is made in accordance with and subject to the penalties of Title 18, Section 1001, United States Code, Crime and Criminal procedures.
Name of bidder (print or type)
Signature of bidder
Address of bidder (print or type)
City, State, Zip code
(d) As a condition precedent to making an award for the sale of surplus controlled substances, holding agencies should follow procedures provided by the DEA in 21 CFR part 1310.
(e) You must not abandon controlled substances. You must destroy controlled substances in such a manner as to ensure total destruction to preclude any further use, and ensure such destruction is in compliance with DEA regulations, 21 CFR part 1307, or other procedures approved by DEA, and coordinate with local air and water pollution control authorities when required. Destruction must be witnessed and certified by two employees of your agency, unless DEA directs otherwise. The following certification, or an equivalent certification, must be used to document the destruction of controlled substances:
We, the undersigned, have witnessed the destruction of the (controlled substance(s)) described herein and in the manner of destruction and on the date stated herein:
Certification of destruction of: ___
Manner in which destruction was performed
Date
Witness
Date
Witness
Date
[80 FR 7353, Feb. 10, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 67867, 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-40.165
How do we handle drugs, biologicals, and reagents other than controlled substances?
(a) Drugs, biologicals, and reagents other than controlled substances may be transferred to another Federal agency for official purposes under procedures specified in part 102-36 of this subchapter. For donation of drugs, biologicals, or reagents other than controlled substances, follow the procedures in part 102-37 of this subchapter, and paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Drugs, biologicals, and reagents other than controlled substances must be clearly identified when they are unfit for human use. As a general rule, you must destroy drugs, biologicals, and reagents unfit for human use, with destruction performed by an agency employee and witnessed and certified by two additional representatives of your agency. Similarly, destruction of this property held by a SASP or donee must be destroyed by a SASP employee and witnessed by two additional SASP employees. Destruction shall be coordinated with local air and water pollution control authorities, when required. However, you may report such property to GSA for subsequent transfer or donation for the purpose of animal experimental use when the property is unfit due to expired shelf life. The following certification, or an equivalent certification, must be used and retained by the Federal agency or SASP to document the destruction of drugs, biologicals, and reagents:
We, the undersigned, have witnessed the destruction of the (drugs, biologicals, and reagents) described in the foregoing certification in the manner of destruction and on the date stated herein:
Certification of destruction of: ___
Manner in which destruction was performed
Date
Witness
Date
Witness
Date
(c) When donating drugs, biologicals, or reagents other than controlled substances, the SASP shall obtain a certification from the donee indicating that the items donated will be safeguarded, dispensed, and administered under competent supervision and in accordance with Federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Surplus drugs, biologicals, and reagents requested for donation by state agencies will not be transported by the state agency or stored in its warehouse prior to distribution to donees. Arrangements will be made by the state agency for the donee to make direct pickup at the holding agency after approval by GSA and after notification by the holding agency that the property is ready for pickup. Additionally, Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property, SF 123 from a state agency requesting surplus drugs, biologicals, and reagents for donation will not be processed or approved by GSA until it has been determined by the GSA donation representative that the specific donee is legally licensed to administer, dispense, store, or distribute such property. A copy of the donee's license, registration, or other legal authorization to administer, dispense, store, or distribute such property should be attached and made a part of the SF 123. The administration or use of drugs, biologicals, and reagents must be in compliance with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 301,
et seq.
).
(d) The sale of any unexpired drugs, biologicals, or reagents must be in accordance with rules published by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). You may sell drugs, biologicals, and reagents other than controlled substances, only to those entities legally qualified to engage in the sale, manufacture or distribution of such items and a certification or evidence of licensing must accompany the bids. An entity is legally qualified when a Federal agency (
e.g.,
the Department of Health and Human Services, the DEA, or the Department of Agriculture) or state agency having legal or regulatory oversight over that commodity has approved the entity to engage in the designated activity.
(1) When selling drugs, biologicals, and reagents other than controlled substances, the following condition of sale (or an equivalent condition of sale) must be used:
The bidder shall complete, sign, and return with their bid the certification as contained in this invitation. No award will be made or sale consummated until after this agency has determined that the bidder is legally licensed to engage in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of drugs.
(2) The following certification, or an equivalent certification, must be made a part of the invitation for bids (and contract), to be completed and signed by the bidder, and returned with the bid with a copy of the bidder's license. Failure to sign the certification may result in the bid being rejected as nonresponsive.
The undersigned bidder certifies that they are legally licensed to engage in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of drugs, and proof of the bidder's license to deal in such materials is furnished with this bid. This certification is made in accordance with and subject to the penalties of Title 18, Section 1001, United States Code, Crime and Criminal procedures.
Name of bidder (print or type)
Signature of bidder
Address of bidder (print or type)
City, State, Zip code
[80 FR 7353, Feb. 10, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-40.170
How do we handle electronic products?
(a) Additional guidance regarding the disposal and reporting of Federal electronic products is found under FMR part 102-36 (41 CFR part 102-36).
(b) Excess electronic products, certified and noncertified, meeting radiation safety performance standards or electronic products which are not required to meet such performance standards must be reported to GSA for transfer to Federal agencies in accordance with part 102-36 of this subchapter and may be donated or sold in accordance with parts 102-37 and 102-38 of this subchapter, respectively.
(c) Excess electronic products NOT meeting radiation safety performance standards must be reported to GSA for transfer to Federal agencies in accordance with FMR part 102-36 (41 CFR part 102-36) and may be donated or sold in accordance with parts 102-37 and 102-38 of this subchapter, respectively. The report to GSA, and any subsequent transfer, donation, or sales documents, must include a statement that the items are not in compliance with applicable radiation safety performance standards and specify the standard which is not being met. Additionally, the recipient must acknowledge that they are aware of the potential danger in handling or using such items.
(d) Donation documentation for items not meeting radiation safety performance standards must contain the following certification, or an equivalent certification, signed by the donee before release:
I (We), the undersigned, hereby certify that the donee has knowledge and understanding of the potential danger in using the product without a radiation test to determine the acceptability for use and/or modification to bring it into compliance with the radiation safety performance standards prescribed for the item under 21 CFR parts 1010 through 1050, and agrees to accept the item from the holding agency for donation under those conditions. The undersigned further agrees that the Government shall not be liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of the donee or the donee's employees, or any other person arising from or incident to the donation of the item, its use, or its final disposition. The undersigned also agrees to hold the Government harmless from any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the donation of the item, its use, or its final disposition.
Name of Donee (print or type)
Signature of Donee
(e) Sales documents listing electronic products not meeting safety performance standards must also clearly warn purchasers that the items may not be in compliance with FDA radiation safety performance standards prescribed pursuant to 21 CFR parts 1010 through 1050 and that the purchaser assumes all risks associated with the use or resale of the items. The following type of warning will be placed on the sales documentation:

# WARNING
Purchasers are warned that the item purchased herewith may not be in compliance with Food and Drug Administration radiation safety performance standards prescribed pursuant to 21 CFR parts 1010 through 1050, and use may result in personal injury unless modified. The purchaser agrees that the United States shall not be liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of the purchaser, the purchaser's employees, or to any other persons arising from or incident to the purchase of this item, its use, or disposition. The purchaser shall hold the United States harmless from and shall indemnify the United States against any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the purchase, use or resale of this item. The purchaser agrees to notify any subsequent purchaser of this property of the potential for personal injury in using this item without a radiation survey to determine the acceptability for use and/or modification to bring it into compliance with the radiation safety performance standards prescribed for the item under 21 CFR parts 1010 through 1050, unless authorized by 21 CFR 1002.4 to have the dealer or distributor hold and preserve.
(f) You must dispose of all electronic products in accordance with all Federal and state laws, including the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901,
et seq.
) and Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management. You should also be aware of the prohibitions and liabilities contained in 42 U.S.C. 9607.
(g) When donating or selling electronic products, the sales terms and
sales documentation, or donation document, must include the following certification, or an equivalent certification, which must be signed by the donee or successful bidder:
It is hereby certified that the undersigned purchaser or donee will comply with all the applicable Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations with respect to the care, handling, storage, disposal, and shipment, resale, export, or other use of the electronic products, hereby purchased or donated, and that that the purchaser or donee is a user of, or dealer in, said products. This certification is made in accordance with and subject to the penalties of Title 18, Section 1001, the United States Code, Crime and Criminal Procedures.
When recycling electronic products, purchaser or donee should use any national standards, best management practices, or existing certification programs for recyclers in addition to Federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations. In the absence of national standards, best management practices, or a national certification program for recyclers, the purchaser/donee should use “EPA's Guidelines for Materials Management” found at
http://www.epa.gov/epawaste/index.htm
Name of purchaser or donee (print or type)
Signature of purchaser or donee
(h) Additionally, noncertified and certified electronic products must be abandoned under the provisions of § 102-40.125.
[80 FR 7353, Feb. 10, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-40.175
How do we handle firearms?
(a) You must submit reports and transfer documents on excess firearms to GSA (8QSC), Denver, CO 80225-0506. GSA will approve transfers of firearms only to those Federal agencies authorized to acquire firearms for official use, and may require additional written justification from the requesting agency.
(b) GSA may donate only surplus hand guns, rifles, shotguns, and individual light automatic weapons previously used by the Federal Government, with less than .50 caliber in Federal Supply Classification (FSC) 1005, and rifle and shoulder fired grenade launchers in FSC 1010, with a disposal condition code of 4 or better (see condition codes in § 102-36.240 of this subchapter). Only eligible law enforcement entities whose primary function is the enforcement of applicable Federal, state, and/or local laws, and whose compensated law enforcement officers have powers to apprehend and arrest, may obtain these donated firearms for law enforcement purposes.
(c)(1) For purposes of donation under paragraph (b) of this section, each Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property SF 123 must be accompanied by a conditional transfer document, signed by both the intended donee agency and the SASP, which includes the special terms, conditions, restrictions, and other forms or information required for the transfer of the donated firearms. Restrictions on donated firearms are perpetual and may not be amended by the SASP without prior written approval from GSA. Donated firearms must be released or shipped directly from the Federal donor agency to the designated donee.
(2) If the firearms to be donated are subject to the National Firearms Act, 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53, (
e.g.,
machineguns, silencers, short-barrel rifles, short-barrel shotguns, firearms over .50 caliber or with a bore diameter of more than
1/2
inch, and destructive devices) the SF 123 must be accompanied by an ATF Form 10, Application for Registration of Firearms Acquired by Certain Governmental Entities, completed by the donee agency as specified in 27 CFR 479.104. Upon approval of the donation by the SASP, the Form 10 shall be forwarded in accordance with the form's instructions. The Chief, National Firearms Act Branch, shall notify the donee agency of ATF registration of the donated firearms by returning the approved Form 10 to the donee agency. The donee agency shall provide a copy of the approved Form 10 to the SASP who shall retain a copy of the approved Form 10 and attach it to the SF 123. Firearms shall not be released for shipment until the ATF Form 10 has been approved by the ATF and a copy provided to the SASP. The registration of any firearms on ATF Form 10 is for official use only and subsequent transfers will be approved only to other Governmental entities for official use and in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this
section. If you have questions concerning whether particular firearms are subject to the National Firearms Act, contact the Firearms Technology Industry Services Branch, ATF, at (304) 616-4300 or
FIRE_TECH@atf.gov.
(d) When authorized by circumstances described in paragraphs (e), (f), (g), or (i) of this section, the destruction of firearms must be performed by an entity authorized by your agency head or designee. The destruction must be witnessed by two additional agency employees authorized by the agency head or designee.
(e)(1) When the approved donee agency no longer needs the donated firearms, the donee agency must notify the SASP. The SASP may, with GSA approval and in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, reassign firearms to another donee agency within the state or to a donee agency in another state through the appropriate SASP. In such a case, transfer of the firearms must be between eligible donee agencies only. No SASP is eligible to take custody of the firearms. If the firearms are not sought for reassignment, the donee agency and a representative from the SASP, or designee, must witness destruction of the firearms and complete and sign a certificate of destruction, which will be maintained by the SASP. If firearms subject to the National Firearms Act are destroyed, the SASP shall notify the Chief, National Firearms Act Branch, ATF, so the destruction can be noted in the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record.
(2) If the firearms sought for reassignment are subject to the National Firearms Act, the firearms must be transferred in accordance with 27 CFR 479.90. This regulation requires that the donor agency submit an ATF Form 5, Application for Tax Exempt Transfer and Registration of Firearm, which must be approved prior to transfer of the firearms. Donor agencies wishing to reassign firearms subject to the National Firearms Act shall submit a completed ATF Form 5 to the SASP along with the request to reassign the firearms to another donee agency. The SASP shall forward the ATF Form 5 to the Chief, National Firearms Act Branch. If transfer is approved by the ATF, the donor agency will receive a copy of the Form 5, with approval noted thereon, from the Chief, National Firearms Act Branch, ATF. The donor agency shall provide a copy of the approved Form 5 to the SASP at which time the reassignment shall be approved.
(f) You must not abandon firearms. You must destroy unneeded firearms by crushing, cutting, breaking, or deforming each firearm in a manner to ensure that each firearm is rendered completely inoperative and incapable of being made operable for any purpose except the recovery of basic material content. Destruction of firearms must be performed as stated in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(g) You must not dispose of functional or repairable firearms under an exchange/sale transaction or by sale. Surplus firearms may be sold only for scrap after total destruction as described in paragraph (f) of this section to ensure that the firearms are rendered completely inoperative and to preclude their being made operative. Such sale shall be conducted under part 102-38 of this subchapter.
(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, firearms received as foreign gifts may be offered for transfer to Federal agencies or sold to the gift recipient in accordance with part 102-42 of this subchapter. If sold to the gift recipient, a certification signed by the gift recipient certifying compliance with all Federal, state, and local laws regarding purchase and possession of firearms must be received by the gift recipient's agency and the agency conducting the sale prior to the sale and release of such firearm to the gift recipient.
(2) Firearms subject to the National Firearms Act, 26 U.S.C. Chapter 53 that are received as foreign gifts cannot be lawfully transferred to an individual gift recipient. These firearms must remain the property of the United States or may be transferred to a donee agency in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. In addition, all firearms must also be transferred, shipped, received, and possessed in accordance with the Gun Control Act of
1968. Persons having questions concerning compliance with the Gun Control Act should contact the nearest ATF field office.
(i) Firearms that are forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed as described in 40 U.S.C. 1306 and 40 U.S.C. 552, must be reported to GSA for disposal in accordance with § 102-41.195 of this subchapter. GSA will direct the disposition of these firearms under this section.
§ 102-40.180
How do we handle hazardous materials?
(a) You may use any of the following methods for the identification of hazardous materials:
(1) As part of the process under current acquisition standards, manufacturers must provide SDSs or similar documentation to identify potential hazards. SDSs are also prescribed by OSHA under 29 CFR part 1910.
(2) An automated database maintained by GSA Federal Acquisition Service contains MSDSs for all GSA-procured hazardous materials. To request an MSDS, you may send an email to
MSDS@gsa.gov,
or call, Toll Free: 866-588-7659, DSN: 465-5097, or Commercial: 816-926-5097.
(3) A collection of hazard-related information in DOD's HMIS provides transportation and disposal information.
(4) Appendix A to this part contains a list of the Federal Supply Classes (FSC) of property that are composed predominantly of hazardous items.
(5) When information is not available under paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, contact the manufacturer, the procuring agency, or your technical staff for assistance in obtaining the SDS, MSDS, or HMIS information.
(b) You must verify items with an expired shelf life or reclassify them as hazardous wastes when required by Federal, state, or local environmental laws or regulations. If the item has been determined hazardous, the owning Federal agency must document the accountable inventory record accordingly. If the item has not been appropriately labeled by the manufacturer or distributor, the owning agency must appropriately label, mark, or tag the item in accordance with OSHA requirements (29 CFR 1919.1200) regarding the actual potential hazard associated with the handling, storage, or use of the item.
(c) For transportation of hazardous materials, see 49 CFR parts 171 through 180.
(d) For disposal of hazardous materials, see §§ 102-40.35 through 102-40.125.
(e) Unless authorized by GSA, extremely hazardous property may not be sold unless it is rendered innocuous, mutilated or otherwise made safe. You should, however, render such property innocuous in a manner so as to preserve the maximum utility or commercial value of the property when possible.
§ 102-40.185
How do we handle lead-containing paints and items bearing lead-containing paint?
(a) You may transfer, donate or sell such items in compliance with restrictions and requirements found in the Consumer Product Safety Commission regulations set forth in 16 CFR part 1303. The transfer, donation or sales documents must clearly describe these leaded items and why they require special handling, and identify the danger inherent in the use or disposal of such paint and items bearing lead-containing paint. You must not abandon such items or their containers. You must destroy them in a way that will prohibit future acquisition and use, and in a manner authorized by law and regulation. Any removal (stripping) of lead paint incident to disposal must be accomplished in conformance with Federal regulations and industry guidelines such as those promulgated by the EPA (
http://www.epa.gov
) or OSHA (
http://www.osha.gov
).
(b) If disposal of the items described in paragraph (a) of this section is allowable, the following must be placed on the items:
(1) The following warning:

# WARNING
Contains Lead. Dried Film of This Paint May be Harmful if Eaten or Chewed.
(2) The following additional statement or its practical equivalent on their labels:
Do not apply on toys and other children's articles, furniture or interior surfaces of any dwelling or facility which may be occupied or used by children. Do not apply on exterior
surfaces of dwelling units, such as window sills, porches, stairs or railings, to which children may be commonly exposed.

# Keep Out of Reach of Children
(c) Donation documentation (including the SF 123) must contain the following certification, or an equivalent certification:
The property requested herein shall be used only as specified in 16 CFR part 1303 and in no case shall be in contact with children. I, the undersigned, agree the United States shall not be liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of or death of the donee's employees, or any other person arising from or incident to the donation of this property, its use or its final disposition; and to hold the United States harmless from, and shall indemnify the United States against, any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the donation of this property, its use or its final disposition.
Name of donee (print or type)
Signature of donee
(d) When selling lead-containing paint or items bearing lead-containing paint, the sales terms and sales documentation must include this certification, or an equivalent certification. Failure to sign the certification where it appears as a sales term may result in the bid being rejected as nonresponsive:
I, the undersigned, certify that I have read and fully comprehend the aforementioned terms and conditions of this sale. I shall comply with the applicable Consumer Product Safety Commission regulations set forth in 16 CFR part 1303 if I am the successful bidder. I further agree the United States shall not be liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of any persons arising from or incident to the sale of this property, its uses or its final disposition; and to hold the United States harmless from, and shall indemnify the United States against, any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the sale of this property, its use, or its final disposition.
Name of bidder (print or type)
Signature of bidder
§ 102-40.190
How do we handle medical devices?
(a) Medical devices are subject to the laws and regulations administered by FDA. Provisions of the governing statute, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, appear in 21 U.S.C. 301,
et seq.
FDA regulations covering medical devices are found in 21 CFR chapter I, subpart H. The Act prohibits the movement in interstate commerce of medical devices that are adulterated or misbranded (21 U.S.C. 331). The Act authorizes FDA to initiate civil proceedings to seize or enjoin the distribution of such items (21 U.S.C. 334), and to report any violations to a U.S. Attorney for prosecution, after such individual is given notice and a hearing (21 U.S.C. 335).
(b) Prescription devices are subject to additional Federal, state, local, and other applicable laws. Federal law requires that prescription devices be in the possession of either: Persons lawfully engaged in the manufacture, transportation, storage, or wholesale or retail distribution of such device; or, practitioners licensed by their states. Federal law also requires that prescription devices be sold only to, or on the prescription or order of, a licensed practitioner for use in the course of their professional practice, and that the devices are labeled in a specific manner.
(c) Non-Federal recipients must certify in writing that such property will be used, resold or transported in conformance with FDA regulations. Any proposed destruction of medical equipment must be coordinated with local health and sanitation officials.
[80 FR 7353, Feb. 10, 2015f, as amended at 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-40.195
How do we handle Munitions List Items (MLIs)?
(a) Munitions List Items (MLIs) are listed in 22 CFR part 121. A system of demilitarization codes identifies the extent of alteration or destruction necessary when transferring or selling MLIs. The appropriate code is normally assigned to items when they enter the supply system of the Department of Defense (DOD) or a civilian agency. Refer to DOD 4160.21-M-1 (Change No. 1) for a complete description of the
DOD program and the requirements to be followed for property owned, procured by or under the control of DOD. The DOD manual is available from the Defense Logistics Agency, 8725 John J. Kingman Road, Fort Belvoir, VA 22060. If your agency uses another system of identifying items requiring demilitarization, you must provide a detailed description of that system to the General Services Administration, Mail Code MA, 1800 F Street NW., Washington, DC 20405, Attn: Director, Personal Property Policy.
(b) When disposing of MLIs, you must perpetuate these demilitarization codes; alert those to whom you are transferring or selling property that the item may require demilitarization; and perform any required demilitarization, or provide any documentation or certifications in accordance with the DOD demilitarization manual, DOD 4160.21-M-1 (Change No. 1), or other agency policy manual if the MLIs are not governed by the DOD demilitarization manual.
(c) Disposal of MLIs will follow the provisions of parts 102-36, 102-37, and 102-38 of this subchapter unless different disposal procedures are required by law or your agency regulation issued in support of 22 U.S.C. 2778.
§ 102-40.200
How do we handle Commerce Control List Items (CCLIs)?
(a) CCLIs are subject to the controls of 15 CFR parts 738 and 774. Export licenses are required for transfer of items to the countries listed in 15 CFR part 738, supp. 1. CCLIs may also be identified by the demilitarization code assigned to the item in the DOD supply system.
(b) When disposing of CCLIs, you must notify the recipient that the item may be subject to Department of Commerce export licensing requirements when transported out of the U.S., for reasons of national security, crime control, technology transfer, and scarcity of materials. Furthermore:
(1) The recipient must be informed that this notification must pass to all subsequent recipients of the item.
(2) When being sold, completed end-use certificates are required of all bidders. An end-use certificate is a statement signed by a prospective recipient indicating the intended designation and disposition of CCLIs to be acquired, and acknowledging U.S. export licensing requirements.
(3) All disposal activity must conform to the requirements of 15 CFR, chapter VII, subchapter C.
§ 102-40.205
How do we handle national stockpile material?
In accordance with 40 U.S.C. 113(e)(6), materials acquired for the national stockpile, the supplemental stockpile, or materials or equipment acquired under section 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 App. U.S.C. 2093), are not covered by the Federal Management Regulation. The disposal of these assets is governed by 50 U.S.C. 98d, 98e, and 98f.
§ 102-40.210
How do we handle Nuclear Regulatory Commission-controlled materials?
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has exclusive control over licensing, use, transfer, and disposition of NRC-controlled materials. Direct all inquiries to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555.
§ 102-40.215
How do we handle ozone depleting substances (ODSs)?
Handle ODSs in accordance with Federal and state laws and regulations. Prior to disposal of ODSs removed or reclaimed from facilities or equipment, including disposal as part of a contract, trade or donation, coordinate with the Defense Ozone Depleting Substances Reserve Program Office to determine if the recovered ODS is a critical requirement for DOD missions. Direct inquiries to the Defense Ozone Depleting Substances Reserve Program Office, Defense Supply Center, Richmond, Virginia; email:
DSCR.ODSReserve@dla.mil;
phone: (804) 279-3064. Additional guidance is available from EPA at:
http://www.epa.gov/ozone/title6/608/608fact.html#overview
.
§ 102-40.220
How do we handle polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)?
(a) In accordance with EPA regulations (40 CFR 761.1 and 761.3), property defined by EPA as excluded polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) products
may be transferred, donated or sold in accordance with parts 102-36, 102-37, or 102-38 of this subchapter. For additional guidance on PCB classifications and other Federal restrictions, contact: Director, National Program Chemicals Division (NPCD), (7404), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC or visit the EPA's Web site at:
http://www.epa.gov/waste/hazard/tsd/pcbs/index.htm.
You should also contact state regulatory agencies since some states regulate at a stricter level than the Federal Government.
(b) Property defined by the EPA in 40 CFR 761.3 as either a PCB item or PCB must be labeled or marked with a warning statement that the item contains PCB and must be handled and disposed of in accordance with EPA regulations (40 CFR part 761), DOT regulations (49 CFR parts 171 through 180), and applicable state laws.
(1) PCB items and PCBs may be transferred or donated, provided:
(i) The items are intact, non-leaking, and totally enclosed.
(ii) All transfers orders or transfer documents must cite the specific provision in 40 CFR part 761 that permits continued use of the item, and contains a certification that the property has been inspected by the transferee and complies with all the use, inspection, labeling, and other provisions of 40 CFR part 761.
(iii) The recipient must annotate its property accountability records to reflect the nature and extent of the PCB content and must provide the specific authorization covering the use of this item from 40 CFR part 761. If tests are conducted to ascertain the nature and extent of PCB contamination, the recipient must furnish the GSA regional office with a copy of the test results. This information will be perpetuated on any notification or release document when the agency disposes of the property.
(iv) If PCBs or PCB items are donated to service educational activities or to public airports, the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Administration, respectively, must obtain the warning and certification as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(v) The recipient certifies to you that the item will be handled and disposed of in accordance with EPA regulation 40 CFR part 761, DOT regulations 49 CFR parts 171 through 180, and other applicable Federal and state laws.
(2) PCB and PCB items not transferred or donated must be destroyed or otherwise disposed of under EPA regulations and applicable state laws. You must not sell any PCB or PCB item unless 40 CFR part 761 authorizes the sale and continued use of the specific item.
(c) You must not transfer, donate, or sell items with an unknown level of concentrations of PCBs.
(d) Property containing PCBs and PCB items should be labeled with a warning such as the following:
Caution—This item contains PCBs (poly- chlorinated biphenyls), a toxic environmental contaminant requiring special handling and disposal in accordance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations (40 CFR part 761), applicable state laws, and 41 CFR 102-40.215. For proper disposal information, contact the nearest EPA office. For transportation requirements, see 49 CFR parts 171 through 180.
(e) The SASP must have the following certification, or an equivalent certification, on all transfer paperwork where PCBs are involved.

# WARNING AND CERTIFICATION
The undersigned donee is aware that the item(s) listed as containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), a toxic environmental contaminant, require(s) special handling and disposal in accordance with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulation (40 CFR part 761) and U.S. Department of Transportation regulations codified in 49 CFR parts 171 through 180. The donee certifies that this item (or these items) will be handled and disposed of in accordance with applicable Federal statutes and regulations and applicable state laws. This certification is made in accordance with and subject to the penalties of Title 18, Section 1001, the United States Code, Crime and Criminal Procedures.
Name and title of donee (print or type)
Signature of donee
§ 102-40.225
How do we handle precious metals?
(a) You must identify activities in your organization that generate precious metals; recover precious metals created from work processes, such as
photographic film developing, and identify equipment or materials containing recoverable precious metals; and adequately control precious metals in your custody. Federal civil agencies may participate in the DOD Precious Metal Recovery Program (PMRP) in accordance with this subpart, and have an Inter-Agency Service Agreement (ISA) in effect between the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) and individual Federal civil agencies. You may acquire recovered fine precious metals as Government Furnished Material or for other authorized uses by submitting a request to the Commander, Defense Supply Center, Philadelphia (DSCP), 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096.
(b) Precious metals will be sold in accordance with this subpart and part 102-38 of this subchapter.
(c) Sales of precious metals will be processed as follows:
(1) Require a bid deposit appropriate to the circumstances of the sale;
(2) Certify all forms of bid deposit and payments; and
(3) Include in the invitation for bids only precious and semiprecious materials as may be available for sale at that time.
(d) Each agency generating scrap precious metals and also having a continuing need for fine precious metals may arrange for the acceptance of scrap precious metals for fine precious metals with a private contractor or the DLA.
§ 102-40.230
How do we handle universal waste(s) (UWs)?
When disposing of universal waste, follow the instructions on the Web sites below, which contain descriptions of the commodities addressed, as well as the handling and disposal requirements from the relevant sections of 40 CFR part 273:
(a)
Batteries. http://www.epa.gov/osw/hazard/wastetypes/universal/batteries.htm;
(b)
Pesticides. http://www.epa.gov/epawaste/hazard/wastetypes/universal/pesticides.htm;
(c)
Mercury-containing equipment. http://www.epa.gov/epawaste/hazard/wastetypes/universal/mce.htm;
and
(d)
Mercury-containing light bulbs (such as fluorescent bulbs). http://www.epa.gov/osw/hazard/wastetypes/universal/lamps/index.htm.
§ 102-40.235
How do we handle motor vehicles not suitable for highway use?
Refer to subpart H of part 102-34 of this subchapter for the general policies regarding disposal of motor vehicles. Some Government-owned motor vehicles might receive such extensive damage as a result of an accident, event or other activity, that they are no longer suitable for utilization, donation, or sale for highway use. Such vehicles may only be donated or sold for salvage or scrap. Prior to disposal of damaged motor vehicles, you must evaluate known damage to determine their suitability for continued highway use. When a determination is made that a vehicle is unfit for continued highway use, you must include such information in the property record and subsequent reports. When selling such vehicles, provide an appropriate warning statement in the solicitation regarding vehicle condition that the vehicle cannot be titled for highway use. See § 102-34.305 of this subchapter (note to § 102-34.305(a)(2)) if the vehicle is not designed or not legal for operation on highways.
Pt. 102-40, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 102-40—Federal Supply Classes (FSC) Composed Predominantly of Hazardous Items
FSC
Nomenclature
6810
Chemicals.
6820
Dyes.
6830
Gases: Compressed
liquefied.
6840
Pest control agents
disinfectants.
6850
Misc. chemical specialties.
7930
Cleaning
polishing compounds
preparations.
8010
Paints, dopes, varnishes,
related products.
8030
Preservative
sealing compounds.
8040
Adhesives.
9110
Fuels, solid.
9130
Liquid propellants
fuels, petroleum base.
9135
Liquid propellant fuels
oxidizers, chemical base.
9140
Fuel oils.
9150
Oils
greases: cutting, lubricating,
hydraulic.
9160
Misc. waxes, oils,
fats.
Pt. 102-40, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 102-40—Federal Supply Classes and Groups Which Contain a Significant Number of Hazardous Items

# Note:
If an item is determined to be hazardous material as defined in § 102-40.30, a Material Safety Data Sheet (or equivalent) should accompany the item even though the Federal Supply Class or Group is not listed in this table.
Federal supply class/group
Title
Examples of hazardous materials requiring identification
1370
Pyrotechnics
Warning fuse, fire starter.
1375
Demolition materials
Explosive device.
2520
Vehicular power transmission components
Items containing asbestos.
2530
Vehicular brake, steering, axle, wheel, and track components
Items containing asbestos.
2540
Vehicular furniture and accessories
Items containing asbestos.
2640
Tire rebuilding and tire and tube repair materials
Items containing flammable or toxic compounds.
Group 28
Engines, turbines, and components
Engine valves containing metallic sodium.
Group 29
Engine accessories
Engine valves containing metallic sodium.
Group 30
Mechanical power transmission equipment
Equipment containing hazardous hydraulic fluid, including PCBs.
Group 34
Metalworking machinery
Equipment containing hazardous hydraulic fluids, including PCBs.
3433
Gas welding, heat cutting, and metalizing equipment
Compressed gases.
3439
Miscellaneous welding, soldering, and brazing supplies and accessories
Hazardous items such as cleaners, acids, flux, and supplies that contain or produce hazardous fumes.
3610
Printing, duplication, and bookbinding equipment
Flammable or toxic lithographic solutions.
3655
Gas generating and dispensing systems, fixed or mobile
Items that produce hazardous fumes.
3680
Foundry machinery, related equipment and supplies
Flammable or toxic casting compounds.
4240
Safety and rescue equipment
Items which involve oxygen, compressed gases, or contain emitting charges.
5610
Mineral construction materials, bulk
Hazardous items such as cutback asphalt, deck and floor covering, deck and surface underlay compound, sealing compound, flight deck compound.
5660
Wallboard, building paper, and thermal insulation materials
Asbestos cloth which has loose fibers or particles that may become airborne and materials containing formaldehyde.
5820
Radio and television communication equipment, except airborne
Circuit cooler items that contain gases that are regarded as hazardous to the earth's ozone layer.
5835
Sound recording and reproducing equipment
Recording tape cleaners that contain hazardous cleaning fluids.
5910
Capacitors
Items that contain polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) or sulfuric acid.
5915
Filters and networks
Items that contain polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).
5920
Fuses and lighting arresters
Items containing radioactive material.
5925
Circuit breakers
Items containing radioactive material.
5930
Switches
Items containing radioactive material.
5935
Connectors, electrical
Kits that contain flammable chemicals.
5950
Coils and transformers
Items containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).
5960
Electron tubes and associated hardware
Tubes that contain radioactive isotopes and require warning labels and magnetron tubes, which require special precautions when being prepared for air shipment.
5965
Headsets, handsets, microphones, and speakers
Items containing magnetic material.
5970
Electrical insulators and insulating materials
Items containing flammable solvents.
5975
Electrical hardware and supplies
Items containing asbestos.
5985
Antennas, waveguides, and related equipment
Kits that contain flammable chemicals.
5999
Miscellaneous electrical and oxide electronic components
Contact plates that contain beryllium.
Group 61
Electric wire and power and distribution equipment
Power factor capacitors containing PCBs.
6120
Transformers: Distribution and power station
Transformers containing PCBs.
6135
Batteries, primary
Lead-acid, lithium, and mercury batteries and alkaline (with electrolyte).
6140
Batteries, secondary
Items that are wet or moist containing corrosive or other hazardous compounds.
6145
Wire and cable, electrical
Insulated wire containing asbestos.
6220
Electric vehicular lights and fixtures
Items that contain mercury.
6230
Electric portable and hand lighting equipment
Items that contain wet batteries.
6240
Electric lamps
Items that contain mercury.
6260
Nonelectrical lighting fixtures
Items that contain mercury.
6350
Miscellaneous signal and security detection systems
Items that contain wet batteries or radioactive material.
6505
Drugs, biologicals, and official reagents
Hazardous items as defined in Sec. 102-40.30.
6508
Medicated cosmetics and toiletries
Hazardous items as defined in Sec. 102-40.30, subject to DOT Hazardous Materials Regulations.
6510
Surgical dressing materials
Items containing flammable solvents.
6520
Dental instruments, equipment, and supplies
Items containing flammable solvents, mercury or asbestos.
6525
X-ray equipment and supplies: medical, dental, veterinary
Items containing hazardous chemicals, solvents.
6625
Electrical and electronic properties measuring and testing instruments
Items containing radioactive materials.
6640
Laboratory equipment and supplies
Items containing flammable compounds, mercury or asbestos.
6685
Pressure, temperature, and humidity measuring and controlling instruments
Items containing mercury or compressed gases.
6740
Photographic
Items containing radioactive compounds.
6750
Photographic supplies
Items containing hazardous chemicals, solvents, thinners, and cements.
6780
Photographic sets, kits, and outfits
Items containing hazardous chemicals, solvents, thinners, and cements.
7360
Sets, kits, and outfits; food preparation and serving
Items containing compressed gases such as fire extinguishers.
7510
Office supplies
Hazardous items, such as thinners, cleaning fluids, flammable inks, and varnishes.
8405
Outerwear, men's
Maintenance kits containing flammable solvents.
8410
Outerwear, women's
Maintenance kits containing flammable solvents.
8415
Clothing, special purpose
Maintenance kits containing flammable solvents.
8465
Individual equipment
Maintenance kits containing flammable solvents.
8510
Perfumes, toilet preparations, and powders
Shipping containers and pressurized containers with flammable or nonflammable propellants.
8520
Toilet soap, shaving preparations, and dentifrices
Shipping containers and pressurized containers with flammable or nonflammable propellants.
8720
Fertilizers
Items containing weed and pest control or other harmful ingredients or because of their composition, are hazardous.
9390
Miscellaneous fabricated nonmetallic materials
Items containing flammable solvents or asbestos.
9920
Smokers' articles and matches
Lighter fuel and matches only.
9930
Memorials; cemeteries and mortuary equipment and supplies
Items containing formaldehyde or its solutions.
Pt. 102-41

# PART 102-41—DISPOSITION OF SEIZED, FORFEITED, VOLUNTARILY ABANDONED, AND UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-41.5
What does this part cover?
102-41.10
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
102-41.15
How do we request a deviation from these requirements and who can approve it?

# Definitions
102-41.20
What definitions apply to this part?

# Responsibility
102-41.25
Who retains custody and is responsible for the reporting, care, and handling of property covered by this part?
102-41.30
What is GSA's role in the disposition of property covered by this part?
102-41.135
How much reimbursement do we pay the former owner when they file a claim for unclaimed personal property that we no longer have?

# Subpart B—Seized or Forfeited Personal Property
102-41.40
How is personal property forfeited?
102-41.45
May we place seized personal property into official use before the forfeiture process is completed?
102-41.50
May we retain forfeited personal property for official use?
102-41.55
Where do we send the reports for seized or forfeited personal property?
102-41.60
Are there special requirements in reporting seized or forfeited personal property to GSA?
102-41.65
What happens to forfeited personal property that is transferred or retained for official use?
102-41.70
Are transfers of forfeited personal property reimbursable?
102-41.75
May we retain the proceeds from the sale of forfeited personal property?

# Subpart C—Voluntarily Abandoned Personal Property
102-41.80
When is personal property voluntarily abandoned?
102-41.85
What choices do I have for retaining or disposing of voluntarily abandoned personal property?
102-41.90
What happens to voluntarily abandoned personal property retained for official use?
102-41.95
Where do we send the reports for voluntarily abandoned personal property?
102-41.100
What information do we provide when reporting voluntarily abandoned personal property to GSA?
102-41.105
What happens to voluntarily abandoned personal property when reported to GSA?
102-41.110
Are transfers of voluntarily abandoned personal property reimbursable?
102-41.115
May we retain the proceeds received from the sale of voluntarily abandoned personal property?

# Subpart D—Unclaimed Personal Property
102-41.120
How long must we hold unclaimed personal property before disposition?
102-41.125
What choices do I have for retaining or disposing of unclaimed personal property?
102-41.130
What must we do when we retain unclaimed personal property for official use?
102-41.135
How much reimbursement do we pay the former owner when he or she files a claim for unclaimed personal property that we no longer have?
102-41.140
When do we report to GSA unclaimed personal property not retained for official use?
102-41.145
Where do we send the reports for unclaimed personal property?
102-41.150
What special information do we provide on reports of unclaimed personal property?
102-41.155
Is unclaimed personal property available for transfer to another Federal agency?
102-41.160
May we retain the reimbursement from transfers of unclaimed personal property?
102-41.165
May we require reimbursement for the costs incurred in the transfer of unclaimed personal property?
102-41.170
Is unclaimed personal property available for donation?
102-41.175
May we sell unclaimed personal property?
102-41.180
May we retain the proceeds from the sale of unclaimed personal property?

# Subpart E—Personal Property Requiring Special Handling
102-41.185
Are there certain types of forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed property that must be handled differently than other property addressed in this part?

# Firearms
102-41.190
May we retain forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed firearms for official use?
102-41.195
How do we dispose of forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed firearms not retained for official use?
102-41.200
Are there special disposal provisions for firearms that are seized and forfeited for a violation of the National Firearms Act?

# Forfeited Distilled Spirits, Wine, and Beer
102-41.205
Do we report all forfeited distilled spirits, wine, and beer to GSA for disposal?

# Drug Paraphernalia
102-41.210
What are some examples of drug paraphernalia?
102-41.215
Do we report to GSA all forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed drug paraphernalia not required for official use?
102-41.220
Is drug paraphernalia forfeited under 21 U.S.C. 863 available for transfer to other Federal agencies or donation through a State agency for surplus property (SASP)?
102-41.225
Are there special provisions to reporting and transferring drug paraphernalia forfeited under 21 U.S.C. 863?
102-41.230
May SASPs pick up or store donated drug paraphernalia in their distribution centers?
102-41.235
May we sell forfeited drug paraphernalia?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c).

# Source:
71 FR 41370, July 21, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-41.5
What does this part cover?
(a) This part covers the disposition of seized, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, and unclaimed personal property under the custody of any Federal agency located in the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau. Disposition of such personal property located elsewhere must be in accordance with holding agency regulations. Please see § 102-36.380 of this subchapter B regarding the disposal of foreign excess. The General Services Administration (GSA) does not normally accept responsibility for disposal of property located outside the United States and its territories. Additional guidance on disposition of seized, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, and unclaimed personal property that requires special handling (e.g., firearms, hazardous materials) is contained in part 101-42 of this title. Additional guidance on the disposition of firearms (as scrap only), distilled spirits, wine, beer, and drug paraphernalia is provided in subpart E of this part.
(b) These regulations do not include disposal of seized, forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, and unclaimed personal property covered under authorities outside of the following statutes:
(1) 40 U.S.C. 552, Abandoned or Unclaimed Property on Government Premises.
(2) 40 U.S.C. 1306, Disposition of Abandoned or Forfeited Property.
(3) 26 U.S.C. 5688, Forfeited Distilled Spirits, Wines, and Beer.
(4) 26 U.S.C. 5872, Forfeited Firearms.
(5) 21 U.S.C. 863, Drug Paraphernalia.
§ 102-41.10
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
Use of pronouns “we”, “you”, and their variants throughout this part refer to the agency having custody of the personal property.
§ 102-41.15
How do we request a deviation from these requirements and who can approve it?
See §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter to request a deviation from the requirements of this part.

# Definitions
§ 102-41.20
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Beer
means an alcoholic beverage made from malted cereal grain, flavored with hops, and brewed by slow fermentation.
Distilled spirits
, as defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 211), means ethyl alcohol; hydrated oxide of ethyl; or spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, and other distilled spirits, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, for non-industrial use.
Drug paraphernalia
means any equipment, product, or material primarily intended or designed for use in manufacturing, compounding, converting, concealing, processing, preparing, or introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the Controlled Substances Act (see 21 U.S.C. 863). It includes items primarily for use in injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, hashish oil, PCP, or amphetamines into the human body.
Eleemosynary institution
means any nonprofit health or medical institution that is organized and operated for charitable purposes.
Firearms
means any weapon, silencer, or destructive device designed to, or readily convertible to, expel a projectile by the action of an explosive, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 5845). Excludes antique firearms as defined in 26 U.S.C. 5845(g).
Forfeited property
means personal property that the Government has acquired ownership of through a summary process or court order pursuant to any law of the United States.
Seized property
means personal property that has been confiscated by a Federal agency, and whose care and handling will be the responsibility of the agency until final ownership is determined by the judicial process.
Unclaimed property
means personal property unknowingly abandoned and found on premises owned or leased by the Government, i.e., lost and found property.
Voluntarily abandoned property
means personal property abandoned to any Federal agency in a way that immediately vests title to the property in the Government. There must be written or circumstantial evidence that the property was intentionally and voluntarily abandoned. This evidence should be clear that the property was not simply lost by the owner.
Wine
means the fermented juice of a plant product, as defined in 27 U.S.C. 211.

# Responsibility
§ 102-41.25
Who retains custody and is responsible for the reporting, care, and handling of property covered by this part?
You, the holding agency, normally retain physical custody of the property and are responsible for its care and handling pending final disposition. With the exception of property listed in § 102-41.35, you must report promptly to the GSA forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed personal property not being retained for official use and seized property on which proceedings for forfeiture by court decree are being started or have begun. In general, the procedures for reporting such property parallel those for reporting excess personal property under part 102-36 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.30
What is GSA's role in the disposition of property covered by this part?
(a)
Seized property subject to court proceedings for forfeiture.
(1) If the seizing agency files a request for the property for its official use, the GSA Region 3/National Capital Region will apply to the court for an order to turn the property over to the agency should forfeiture be decreed. If no such request has been filed, GSA will determine whether retention of the property for Federal official use is in the Government's best interest, and, if so, will apply to the court to order delivery of the property to—
(i) Any other Federal agency that requests it; or
(ii) The seizing agency to be retained for a reasonable time in case the property may later become necessary to any agency for official use.
(2) In the event that the property is not ordered by competent authority to be forfeited to the United States, it may be returned to the claimant.
(b)
Forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed property.
When forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed property is reported to GSA for disposal, GSA will direct its disposition by—
(1) Transfer to another Federal agency;
(2) Donation to an eligible recipient, if the property is not needed by a Federal agency and there are no requirements for reimbursement to satisfy the claims of owners, lien holders, or other lawful claimants;
(3) Sale; or
(4) Abandonment and destruction in accordance with § 102-36.305 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.35
Do we report to GSA all seized personal property subject to judicial forfeiture as well as forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed personal property not retained for official use?
Yes, send GSA reports of excess (see § 102-36.125 of this subchapter B) for all seized personal property subject to judicial forfeiture as well as forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed personal property not required for official use, except the following, whose disposition is covered under other statutes and authorities:
(a) Forfeited firearms or munitions of war seized by the Department of Commerce and transferred to the Department of Defense (DOD) pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 401.
(b) Forfeited firearms directly transferable to DOD by law.
(c) Seeds, plants, or misbranded packages seized by the Department of Agriculture.
(d) Game animals and equipment (other than vessels, including cargo) seized by the Department of the Interior.
(e) Files of papers and undeliverable mail in the custody of the United States Postal Service.
(f) Articles in the custody of the Department of Commerce Patent and Trademark Office that are in violation of laws governing trademarks or patents.
(g) Unclaimed and voluntarily abandoned personal property subject to laws and regulations of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security.
(h) Property seized in payment of or as security for debts arising under the internal revenue laws.
(i) Lost, abandoned, or unclaimed personal property the Coast Guard or the military services are authorized to dispose of under 10 U.S.C. 2575.
(j) Property of deceased veterans left on a Government facility subject to 38 U.S.C. 8501.
(k) Controlled substances reportable to the Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20537.
(l) Forfeited, condemned, or voluntarily abandoned tobacco, snuff, cigars, or cigarettes which, if offered for sale, will not bring a price equal to the internal revenue tax due and payable thereon; and which is subject to destruction or delivery without payment of any tax to any hospital maintained by the Federal Government for the use of present or former members of the military.
(m) Property determined appropriate for abandonment/destruction (see § 102-36.305 of this subchapter B).
(n) Personal property where handling and disposal is governed by specific legislative authority notwithstanding Title 40 of the United States Code.

# Subpart B—Seized or Forfeited Personal Property
§ 102-41.40
How is personal property forfeited?
Personal property that has been seized by a Federal agency may be forfeited through court decree (judicial forfeiture) or administratively forfeited if the agency has specific authority without going through the courts.
§ 102-41.45
May we place seized personal property into official use before the forfeiture process is completed?
No, property under seizure and pending forfeiture cannot be placed into official use until a final determination is made to vest title in the Government.
§ 102-41.50
May we retain forfeited personal property for official use?
Yes, you may retain for official use personal property forfeited to your agency, except for property you are required by law to sell. Retention of large sedans and limousines for official use is only authorized under the provisions of part 102-34 of this subchapter B. Except for the items noted in § 102-41.35, report to GSA all forfeited personal property not being retained for official use.
§ 102-41.55
Where do we send the reports for seized or forfeited personal property?
(a) Except for the items noted in paragraph (b) of this section, report seized or forfeited personal property not retained for official use to the General Services Administration, Property Management Branch (3FPD), Washington, DC 20407.
(b) Report aircraft, firearms, and vessels to the regional GSA Property Management Branch office specified in § 102-36.125 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.60
Are there special requirements in reporting seized or forfeited personal property to GSA?
Yes, in addition to the information required in § 102-36.235 of this subchapter B for reporting excess, you must indicate—
(a) Whether the property—
(1) Was forfeited in a judicial proceeding or administratively (without going through a court);
(2) Is subject to pending court proceedings for forfeiture, and, if so, the name of the defendant, the place and judicial district of the court from which the decree will be issued, and whether you wish to retain the property for official use;
(b) The report or case number under which the property is listed; and
(c) The existence or probability of a lien, or other accrued or accruing charges, and the amount involved.
§ 102-41.65
What happens to forfeited personal property that is transferred or retained for official use?
Except for drug paraphernalia (see §§ 102-41.210 through 102-41.235), forfeited personal property retained for official use or transferred to another Federal agency under this subpart loses its identity as forfeited property. When no longer required for official use, you must report it to GSA as excess for disposal in accordance with part 102-36 of this subchapter B. You must follow the additional provisions of subpart E of this part and part 101-42 of Chapter 101, Federal Property Management Regulations in this title when disposing of firearms, distilled spirits, wine, beer, and drug paraphernalia.
§ 102-41.70
Are transfers of forfeited personal property reimbursable?
Recipient agencies do not pay for the property. However, you may charge the recipient agency all costs you incurred in storing, packing, loading, preparing for shipment, and transporting the property. If there are commercial charges incident to forfeiture prior to the transfer, the recipient agency must pay these charges when billed by the commercial organization. Any payment due to lien holders or other lawful claimants under a judicial forfeiture must be made in accordance with provisions of the court decree.
§ 102-41.75
May we retain the proceeds from the sale of forfeited personal property?
No, you must deposit the sales proceeds in the U.S. Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, unless otherwise directed by court decree or specifically authorized by statute.

# Subpart C—Voluntarily Abandoned Personal Property
§ 102-41.80
When is personal property voluntarily abandoned?
Personal property is voluntarily abandoned when the owner of the property intentionally and voluntarily gives up title to such property and title vests in the Government. The receiving agency ordinarily documents receipt of the property to evidence its voluntary relinquishment. Evidence of the voluntary abandonment may be circumstantial.
§ 102-41.85
What choices do I have for retaining or disposing of voluntarily abandoned personal property?
You may either retain or dispose of voluntarily abandoned personal property based on the following circumstances:
(a) If your agency has a need for the property, you may retain it for official use, except for large sedans and limousines which may only be retained for official use as authorized under part 102-34 of this subchapter B. See § 102-41.90 for how retained property must be handled.
(b) If your agency doesn't need the property, you should determine whether it may be abandoned or destroyed in accordance with the provisions at FMR 102-36.305 through 102-36.330. Furthermore, in addition to the circumstances when property may be abandoned or destroyed without public notice at FMR 102-36.330, voluntarily abandoned property may also be abandoned or destroyed without public notice when the estimated resale value of the property is less than $500.
(c) If the property is not retained for official use or abandoned or destroyed, you must report it to GSA as excess in accordance with § 102-41.95.
§ 102-41.90
What happens to voluntarily abandoned personal property retained for official use?
Voluntarily abandoned personal property retained for official use or
transferred to another Federal agency under this subpart loses its identity as voluntarily abandoned property. When no longer required for official use, you must report it to GSA as excess, or abandon/destroy the property, in accordance with part 102-36 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.95
Where do we send the reports for voluntarily abandoned personal property?
Except for aircraft, firearms, and vessels, report voluntarily abandoned personal property to the regional GSA Property Management Branch office for the region in which the property is located. Report aircraft, firearms, and vessels to the regional GSA Property Management Branch office specified in § 102-36.125 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.100
What information do we provide when reporting voluntarily abandoned personal property to GSA?
When reporting voluntarily abandoned personal property to GSA, you must provide a description and location of the property, and annotate that the property was voluntarily abandoned.
§ 102-41.105
What happens to voluntarily abandoned personal property when reported to GSA?
Voluntarily abandoned personal property reported to GSA will be made available for transfer, donation, sale, or abandonment/destruction in accordance with parts 102-36, 102-37, 102-38, and §§ 102-36.305 through 102-36.330 of this subchapter B, respectively. You must follow the additional provisions of §§ 102-41.190 through 102-41.235 and part 101-42 of Chapter 101, Federal Property Management Regulations in this title when disposing of firearms and other property requiring special handling.
§ 102-41.110
Are transfers of voluntarily abandoned personal property reimbursable?
No, all transfers of voluntarily abandoned personal property will be without reimbursement. However, you may charge the recipient agency all costs you incurred in storing, packing, loading, preparing for shipment, and transporting the property.
§ 102-41.115
May we retain the proceeds received from the sale of voluntarily abandoned personal property?
No, you must deposit the sales proceeds in the U.S. Treasury as miscellaneous receipts unless your agency has specific statutory authority to do otherwise.

# Subpart D—Unclaimed Personal Property
§ 102-41.120
How long must we hold unclaimed personal property before disposition?
You must generally hold unclaimed personal property for 30 calendar days from the date it was found. Unless the previous owner files a claim, title to the property vests in the Government after 30 days, and you may retain or dispose of the property in accordance with this part. However, see the following sections for handling of unclaimed personal property under specific circumstances.
§ 102-41.125
What choices do I have for retaining or disposing of unclaimed personal property?
You may either retain or dispose of unclaimed abandoned personal property based on the following circumstances:
(a) If your agency has a need for the property, you may retain it for official use if you have held the unclaimed property for 30 calendar days and the former owner has not filed a claim. After 30 days, title vests in the Government and you may retain the unclaimed property for official use. Large sedans and limousines which may only be retained for official use as authorized under part 102-34 of this subchapter B. See § 102-41.130 for how retained property must be handled.
(b) If your agency doesn't need the property, you should determine whether it may be immediately abandoned or destroyed in accordance with the provisions at FMR 102-36.305 through 102-36.330. You are not required to hold unclaimed property for 30 days, if you decide to abandon or destroy it. Title to
the property immediately vests in the Government in these circumstances. In addition to the circumstances when property may be abandoned or destroyed without public notice at FMR 102-36.330, unclaimed personal property may also be abandoned or destroyed without public notice when the estimated resale value of the property is less than $500. See § 102-41.135 for procedures to be followed if a claim is filed.
(c) If the property is not retained for official use or abandoned or destroyed, you must report it to GSA as excess in accordance with § 102-41.140.
§ 102-41.130
What must we do when we retain unclaimed personal property for official use?
(a) You must maintain records of unclaimed personal property retained for official use for 3 years after title vests in the Government to permit identification of the property should the former owner file a claim for the property. You must also deposit funds received from disposal of such property in a special account to cover any valid claim filed within this 3-year period.
(b) When you no longer need the unclaimed property which you have placed in official use, report it as excess in the same manner as other excess property under part 102-36 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.135
How much reimbursement do we pay the former owner when they file a claim for unclaimed personal property that we no longer have?
If the property was sold, reimbursement of the property to the former owner must not exceed any proceeds from the disposal of such property, less the costs of the Government's care and handling of the property. If the property was abandoned or destroyed in accordance with § 102-41.125, or otherwise used or transferred, reimbursement of the property to the former owner must not exceed the estimated resale value of the property at the time of the vesting of the property with the Government, less costs incident to the care and handling of the property, as determined by the General Services Administration, Office of Travel, Transportation, and Asset Management (MT), Washington DC, 20405.
§ 102-41.140
When do we report to GSA unclaimed personal property not retained for official use?
After you have held the property for 30 calendar days and no one has filed a claim for it, the title to the property vests in the Government. If you decide not to retain the property for official use, report it as excess to GSA in accordance with part 102-36 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.145
Where do we send the reports for unclaimed personal property?
Except for the items noted in § 102-36.125 of this subchapter B, report unclaimed personal property to the regional GSA Property Management Branch office for the region in which the property is located.
§ 102-41.150
What special information do we provide on reports of unclaimed personal property?
On reports of unclaimed personal property, you must provide the report or case number assigned by your agency, property description and location, and indicate the property as unclaimed and the estimated fair market value.
§ 102-41.155
Is unclaimed personal property available for transfer to another Federal agency?
Yes, unclaimed personal property is available for transfer to another Federal agency, but only after 30 calendar days from the date of finding such property and no claim has been filed by the former owner, and with fair market value reimbursement from the recipient agency. The transferred property then loses its identity as unclaimed property and becomes property of the Government, and when no longer needed it must be reported excess in accordance with part 102-36 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.160
May we retain the reimbursement from transfers of unclaimed personal property?
No, you must deposit the reimbursement from transfers of unclaimed personal property in a special account for a period of 3 years pending a claim from the former owner. After 3 years,
you must deposit these funds into miscellaneous receipts of the U.S. Treasury unless your agency has statutory authority to do otherwise.
§ 102-41.165
May we require reimbursement for the costs incurred in the transfer of unclaimed personal property?
Yes, you may require reimbursement from the recipient agency of any direct costs you incur in the transfer of the unclaimed property (e.g., storage, packing, preparation for shipping, loading, and transportation).
§ 102-41.170
Is unclaimed personal property available for donation?
No, unclaimed personal property is not available for donation because reimbursement at fair market value is required.
§ 102-41.175
May we sell unclaimed personal property?
Yes, you may sell unclaimed personal property after title vests in the Government (as provided for in § 102-41.120) and when there is no Federal interest. You may sell unclaimed personal property subject to the same terms and conditions as applicable to surplus personal property and in accordance with part 102-38 of this subchapter B.
§ 102-41.180
May we retain the proceeds from the sale of unclaimed personal property?
No, you must deposit proceeds from the sale of unclaimed personal property in a special account to be maintained for a period of 3 years pending a possible claim by the former owner. After the 3-year period, you must deposit the funds in the U.S. Treasury as miscellaneous receipts or in such other agency accounts when specifically authorized by statute.

# Subpart E—Personal Property Requiring Special Handling
§ 102-41.185
Are there certain types of forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed property that must be handled differently than other property addressed in this part?
Yes, you must comply with the additional provisions in this subpart when disposing of the types of property listed here.

# Firearms
§ 102-41.190
May we retain forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed firearms for official use?
Generally, no; you may retain forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed firearms only when you are statutorily authorized to use firearms for official purposes.
§ 102-41.195
How do we dispose of forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed firearms not retained for official use?
Report forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed firearms not retained for official use to the General Services Administration, Property Management Branch (7FP-8), Denver, CO 80225-0506 for disposal in accordance with § 101-42.1102-10 of the Federal Property Management Regulations in this title.
§ 102-41.200
Are there special disposal provisions for firearms that are seized and forfeited for a violation of the National Firearms Act?
Yes, firearms seized and forfeited for a violation of the National Firearms Act (26 U.S.C. 5801—5872) are subject to the disposal provisions of 26 U.S.C. 5872(b). When there is no contrary judgment or action under such forfeiture, GSA will direct the disposition of the firearms. GSA may—
(a) Authorize retention for official use by the Treasury Department;
(b) Transfer to an executive agency for use by it; or
(c) Order the firearms destroyed.

# Forfeited Distilled Spirits, Wine, and Beer
§ 102-41.205
Do we report all forfeited distilled spirits, wine, and beer to GSA for disposal?
(a) Yes, except do not report distilled spirits, wine, and beer not fit for human consumption or for medicinal, scientific, or mechanical purposes. When reporting, indicate quantities and kinds, proof rating, and condition for shipping. GSA (3FPD) may transfer
such property to another Federal agency for official purposes, or donate it to eligible eleemosynary institutions for medicinal purposes only.
(b) Forfeited distilled spirits, wine, and beer that are not retained for official use by the seizing agency or transferred or donated to eligible recipients by GSA must be destroyed. You must document the destruction with a record of the time and location, property description, and quantities destroyed.

# Drug Paraphernalia
§ 102-41.210
What are some examples of drug paraphernalia?
Some examples of drug paraphernalia are—
(a) Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
(b) Water pipes;
(c) Carburetion tubes and devices;
(d) Smoking and carburetion masks;
(e) Roach clips (objects used to hold burning material, such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand);
(f) Miniature spoons with level capacities of one-tenth cubic centimeter or less;
(g) Chamber pipes;
(h) Carburetor pipes;
(i) Electric pipes;
(j) Air-driven pipes;
(k) Chillums;
(l) Bongs;
(m) Ice pipes or chillers;
(n) Wired cigarette papers; or
(o) Cocaine freebase kits.
§ 102-41.215
Do we report to GSA all forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed drug paraphernalia not required for official use?
No, only report drug paraphernalia that has been seized and forfeited for a violation of 21 U.S.C. 863. Unless statutorily authorized to do otherwise, destroy all other forfeited, voluntarily abandoned, or unclaimed drug paraphernalia. You must ensure the destruction is performed in the presence of two witnesses (employees of your agency), and retain in your records a signed certification of destruction.
§ 102-41.220
Is drug paraphernalia forfeited under 21 U.S.C. 863 available for transfer to other Federal agencies or donation through a State Agency for Surplus Property (SASP)?
Yes, but GSA will only transfer or donate forfeited drug paraphernalia for law enforcement or educational purposes and only for use by Federal, State, or local authorities. Federal or State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASP) requests for such items must be processed through the General Services Administration, Property Management Branch (3FPD), Washington, DC 20407. The recipient must certify on the transfer document that the drug paraphernalia will be used for law enforcement or educational purposes only.
§ 102-41.225
Are there special provisions to reporting and transferring drug paraphernalia forfeited under 21 U.S.C. 863?
Yes, you must ensure that such drug paraphernalia does not lose its identity as forfeited property. Reports of excess and transfer documents for such drug paraphernalia must include the annotation that the property was seized and forfeited under 21 U.S.C. 863.
§ 102-41.230
May SASPs pick up or store donated drug paraphernalia in their distribution centers?
No, you must release donated drug paraphernalia directly to the donee as designated on the transfer document.
§ 102-41.235
May we sell forfeited drug paraphernalia?
No, you must destroy any forfeited drug paraphernalia not needed for transfer or donation and document the destruction as specified in § 102-41.215.
Pt. 102-42

# PART 102-42—UTILIZATION, DONATION, AND DISPOSAL OF FOREIGN GIFTS AND DECORATIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-42.5
What does this part cover?

# Definitions
102-42.10
What definitions apply to this part?

# Care, Handling and Disposition
102-42.15
Under what circumstances may an employee retain a foreign gift or decoration?
102-42.20
What is the typical disposition process for gifts and decorations that employees are not authorized to retain?
102-42.25
Who retains custody of gifts and decorations pending disposal?
102-42.30
Who is responsible for the security, care and handling, and delivery of gifts and decorations to GSA, and all costs associated with such functions?
102-42.35
Can the employing agency be reimbursed for transfers of gifts and decorations?

# Appraisals
102-42.40
When is a commercial necessary?
102-42.45
What is my agency's responsibility for establishing procedures for obtaining an appraisal?
102-42.50
What types of appraisals may my agency consider?
102-42.55
What does the employing agency do with the appraisal?

# Special Disposals
102-42.60
Who is responsible for gifts and decorations received by Senators and Senate employees?
102-42.65
What happens if the Commission on Art and Antiquities does not dispose of a gift or decoration?
102-42.70
Who handles gifts and decorations received by the President or Vice President or a member of their family?
102-42.75
How are gifts containing hazardous materials handled?

# Subpart B—Utilization of Foreign Gifts and Decorations
102-42.80
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
102-42.85
What gifts or decorations must we report to GSA?
102-42.90
What is the requirement for reporting gifts or decorations that were retained for official use but are no longer needed?
102-42.95
How do we report gifts and decorations as excess personal property?
102-42.100
How can we obtain an excess gift or decoration from another agency?
102-42.105
What special information must be included on the transfer request (SF 122)?
102-42.110
How must we justify a transfer request?
102-42.115
What must we do when the transferred gifts and decorations are no longer required for official use?

# Subpart C—Donation of Foreign Gifts and Decorations
102-42.120
When may gifts or decorations be donated to State agencies?
102-42.125
How is donation of gifts or decorations accomplished?
102-42.130
Are there special requirements for the donation of gifts and decorations?

# Subpart D—Sale or Destruction of Foreign Gifts and Decorations
102-42.135
Whose approval must be obtained before a foreign gift or decoration is offered for public sale?
102-42.140
How is a sale of a foreign gift or decoration to an employee conducted?
102-42.145
When is public sale of a foreign gift or decoration authorized?
102-42.150
What happens to proceeds from sales?
102-42.155
Can foreign gifts or decorations be destroyed?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); sec. 515, 5 U.S.C. 7342 (91 Stat. 862).

# Source:
65 FR 45539, July 24, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-42.5
What does this part cover?
This part covers the acceptance and disposition of gifts of more than minimal value and decorations from foreign governments under 5 U.S.C. 7342. If you receive gifts other than from a foreign government, you should refer to § 102-36.405 of this subchapter B.
[71 FR 28778, May 18, 2006]

# Definitions
§ 102-42.10
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Decoration
means an order, device, medal, badge, insignia, emblem, or award offered by or received from a foreign government.
Employee means:
(1) An employee as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2105 and an officer or employee of the United States Postal Service or of the Postal Rate Commission;
(2) An expert or consultant who is under contract under 5 U.S.C. 3109 with the United States or any agency, department, or establishment thereof, including, in the case of an organization
performing services under that section, any individual involved in the performance of such services;
(3) An individual employed by or occupying an office or position in the government of a territory or possession of the United States or the government of the District of Columbia;
(4) A member of a uniformed service as specified in 10 U.S.C 101;
(5) The President and the Vice President;
(6) A Member of Congress as defined by 5 U.S.C. 2106 (except the Vice President) and any Delegate to the Congress; and
(7) The spouse of an individual described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of this definition of
employee
(unless this individual and the individual's spouse are legally separated) or a dependent (within the meaning of section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 152)) of this individual, other than a spouse or dependent who is an employee under paragraphs (1) through (6) of this definition of
employee.
Employing agency
means:
(1) The department, agency, office, or other entity in which an employee is employed, for other legislative branch employees and for all executive branch employees;
(2) The Committee on Standards of Official Conduct of the House of Representatives, for Members and employees of the House of Representatives, except that those responsibilities specified in 5 U.S.C. 7342(c)(2)(A), (e)(1), and (g)(2)(B) must be carried out by the Clerk of the House;
(3) The Select Committee on Ethics of the Senate, for Senators and employees of the Senate, except that those responsibilities (other than responsibilities involving approval of the employing agency) specified in 5 U.S.C. 7342(c)(2), (d), and (g)(2)(B) must be carried out by the Secretary of the Senate; and
(4) The Administrative Offices of the United States Courts, for judges and judicial branch employees.
Foreign government
means:
(1) Any unit of foreign government, including any national, State, local, and municipal government and their foreign equivalents;
(2) Any international or multinational organization whose membership is composed of any unit of a foreign government; and
(3) Any agent or representative of any such foreign government unit or organization while acting as such.
Gift
means a monetary or non-monetary present (other than a decoration) offered by or received from a foreign government. A monetary gift includes anything that may commonly be used in a financial transaction, such as cash or currency, checks, money orders, bonds, shares of stock, and other securities and negotiable financial instruments.
Minimal value
means a retail value in the United States at the time of acceptance that is at or below the dollar value established by GSA and published in a Federal Management Regulation (FMR) Bulletin at
www.gsa.gov/personalpropertypolicy.
(1) GSA will adjust the definition of minimal value every three years, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index for the immediately preceding 3-year period.
(2) An employing agency may, by regulation, specify a lower value than this Government-wide value for its agency employees.
Spouse
means any individual who is lawfully married (unless legally separated), including an individual married to a person of the same sex who was legally married in a state or other jurisdiction (including a foreign country), that recognizes such marriages, regardless of whether or not the individual's state of residency recognizes such marriages. The term
spouse
does not include individuals in a formal relationship recognized by a state, which is other than lawful marriage; it also does not include individuals in a marriage in a jurisdiction outside the United States that is not recognized as a lawful marriage under United States law.
[65 FR 45539, July 24, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 56496, Sept. 4, 2002; 70 FR 2318, Jan. 12, 2005; 71 FR 28778, May 18, 2006; 73 FR 7475, Feb. 8, 2008; 76 FR 30551, May 26, 2011; 79 FR 18477, Apr. 2, 2014; 80 FR 21190, Apr. 17, 2015; 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]

# Care, Handling and Disposition
§ 102-42.15
Under what circumstances may an employee retain a foreign gift or decoration?
Employees, with the approval of their employing agencies, may accept and retain:
(a) Gifts of minimal value received as souvenirs or marks of courtesy. When a gift of more than minimal value is accepted, the gift becomes the property of the U.S. Government, not the employee, and must be reported.
(b) Decorations that have been offered or awarded for outstanding or unusually meritorious performance. If the employing agency disapproves retention of the decoration by the employee, the decoration becomes the property of the U.S. Government.
§ 102-42.20
What is the typical disposition process for gifts and decorations that employees are not authorized to retain?
(a)
Non-monetary gifts or decorations.
When an employee receives a non-monetary gift above the minimal value or a decoration that the employee is not authorized to retain:
(1) The employee must report the gift or decoration to their employing agency within 60 days after accepting it.
(2) The employing agency determines if it will keep the gift or decoration for official use.
(3) If it does not return the gift or decoration to the donor or keep it for official use, the employing agency reports it as excess personal property to GSA for Federal utilization screening under § 102-42.95.
(4) If GSA does not transfer the gift or decoration during Federal utilization screening, the employee may purchase the gift or decoration (see § 102-42.140).
(5) If the employee declines to purchase the gift or decoration, and there is no Federal requirement for either, GSA may offer it for donation through State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASP) under part 102-37 of this subchapter B.
(6) If no SASP requests the gift or decoration for donation, GSA may offer it for public sale, with the approval of the Secretary of State, or will authorize the destruction of the gift or decoration under part 102-38 of this subchapter B.
(b)
Monetary gifts.
When an employee receives a monetary gift above the minimal value:
(1) The employee must report the gift to their employing agency within 60 days after accepting it.
(2) The employing agency must:
(i) Report a monetary gift with possible historic or numismatic (i.e., collectible) value to GSA; or
(ii) Deposit a monetary gift that has no historic or numismatic value with the Department of the Treasury.
[65 FR 45539, July 24, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 28778, May 18, 2006; 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 102-42.25
Who retains custody of gifts and decorations pending disposal?
(a) The employing agency retains custody of gifts and decorations that employees have expressed an interest in purchasing.
(b) GSA will accept physical custody of gifts above the minimal value, which employees decline to purchase, or decorations that are not retained for official use or returned to donors.

# Note to § 102-42.25(
b

# ):
GSA will not accept physical custody of foreign gifts of firearms. Firearms reported by the agency as excess must be disposed of in accordance with part 101-42 of this title.
§ 102-42.30
Who is responsible for the security, care and handling, and delivery of gifts and decorations to GSA, and all costs associated with such functions?
The employing agency is responsible for the security, care and handling, and delivery of gifts and decorations to GSA, and all costs associated with such functions.
§ 102-42.35
Can the employing agency be reimbursed for transfers of gifts and decorations?
No, all transfers of gifts and decorations to Federal agencies or donation through SASPs will be without reimbursement. However, the employing agency may require the receiving agency to pay all or part of the direct costs incurred by the employing agency in packing, preparation for shipment, loading, and transportation.

# Appraisals
§ 102-42.40
When is an appraisal necessary?
An appraisal is necessary when—
(a) An employee indicates an interest in purchasing a gift or decoration. In this situation, the appraisal must be obtained before the gift or decoration is reported to GSA for screening (see 102-42.20); or
(b) GSA requires the employing agency to obtain an appraisal of a gift or decoration that the agency has retained for official use and no longer needs before accepting the agency's report of the item as excess personal property; or
(c) The policy of one's own agency requires it, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7342(g).

# Note to § 102-42.40 paragraphs (
a

# ) and (
b

# ):
Refer to § 102-42.50 for how appraisals under these two situations are handled.
[74 FR 2396, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 102-42.45
What is my agency's responsibility for establishing procedures for obtaining an appraisal?
The employing agency is responsible for establishing its own procedure for obtaining an appraisal that represents the value of the gift in the United States. This applies to all gifts, even when the recipient wishes to retain and/or purchase the gift. Appraisals are required for gifts that are personalized (e.g., Books signed by the author, Gifts personally labeled).
[74 FR 2396, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 102-42.50
What types of appraisals may my agency consider?
Your agency may allow—
(a) Written commercial appraisals conducted by an appraisal firm or trade organization; and
(b) Retail value appraisals where the value of the gift may be ascertained by reviewing current and reliable non-discounted retail catalogs, retail price lists, or retail Web site valuations.
[74 FR 2396, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 102-42.55
What does the employing agency do with the appraisal?
When an appraisal is necessary under § 102-42.40, the employing agency must include the appraisal with the Standard Form (SF) 120, Report of Excess Personal Property, and send it to GSA in accordance with the requirements of § 102-42.95. By attaching the appraisal, the employing agency is certifying that the value cited is the retail value/appraised value of the item in the United States in U.S. dollars on the date set forth on the appraisal.
[74 FR 2396, Jan. 15, 2009]

# Special Disposals
§ 102-42.60
Who is responsible for gifts and decorations received by Senators and Senate employees?
Gifts and decorations received by Senators and Senate employees are deposited with the Secretary of the Senate for disposal by the Commission on Art and Antiquities of the United States Senate under 5 U.S.C. 7342(e)(2). GSA is responsible for disposing of gifts or decorations received by Members and employees of the House of Representatives.
§ 102-42.65
What happens if the Commission on Art and Antiquities does not dispose of a gift or decoration?
If the Commission on Art and Antiquities does not dispose of a gift or decoration, then it must be reported to GSA for disposal. If GSA does not dispose of a gift or decoration within one year of the Commission's reporting, the Commission may:
(a) Request that GSA return the gift or decoration and dispose of it itself; or
(b) Continue to allow GSA to dispose of the gift or decoration in accordance with this part.
§ 102-42.70
Who handles gifts and decorations received by the President or Vice President or a member of their family?
The National Archives and Records Administration normally handles gifts and decorations received by the President and Vice President or a member of the President's or Vice President's family.
[71 FR 28778, May 18, 2006]
§ 102-42.75
How are gifts containing hazardous materials handled?
Gifts containing hazardous materials are handled in accordance with the requirements and provisions of this part and part 101-42 of this title.

# Subpart B—Utilization of Foreign Gifts and Decorations
§ 102-42.80
To whom do “we”, “you”, and their variants refer?
Use of pronouns “we”, “you”, and their variants throughout this subpart refers to the employing agency.
§ 102-42.85
What gifts or decorations must we report to GSA?
You must report to GSA gifts of more than minimal value, except for monetary gifts that have no historic or numismatic value (see § 102-42.20), or decorations the employee is not authorized to retain that are:
(a) Not being retained for official use or have not been returned to the donor; or
(b) Received by a Senator or a Senate employee and not disposed of by the Commission on Art and Antiquities of the United States Senate.
§ 102-42.90
What is the requirement for reporting gifts or decorations that were retained for official use but are no longer needed?
Non-monetary gifts or decorations that were retained for official use must be reported to GSA as excess property within 30 days after termination of the official use.
§ 102-42.95
How do we report gifts and decorations as excess personal property?
You must complete a Standard Form (SF) 120, Report of Excess Personal Property, and send it to the General Services Administration, Utilization and Donation Program Division (QSCA), Washington, DC 20406. Conspicuously mark the SF 120, “FOREIGN GIFTS AND/OR DECORATIONS”, and include the following information:
Entry
Description
(a) Identity of Employee
Give the name and position of the employee.
(b) Description of Item
Give a full description of the gift or decoration, including the title of the decoration.
(c) Identity of Foreign Government
Give the identity of the foreign government (if known) and the name and position of the individual who presented the gift or decoration.
(d) Date of Acceptance
Give the date the gift or decoration was accepted by the employee.
(e) Appraised Value
Give the appraised value in United States dollars of the gift or decoration, including the cost of the appraisal. (The employing agency must obtain a commercial appraisal before the gift is offered for sale to the employee.)
(f) Current Location of Item
Give the current location of the gift or decoration.
(g) Employing Agency Contact Person
Give the name, address, and telephone number of the accountable official in the employing agency.
(h) Purchase Interest or Donation Recommendation
Indicate whether the employee wants to buy the gift, or whether the employee wants the gift or decoration donated to an eligible donee through GSA's surplus donation program. Document this interest in a letter outlining any special significance of the gift or decoration to the proposed donee. Also provide the mailing address and telephone number of both the employee and the proposed donee.
(i) Administration
Give the Administration in which the gift or decoration was received (for example, Clinton Administration).
(j) Multiple Items
Identify each gift or decoration as a separate line item. Report multiple gift items that make up a set (for example, a tea set, a necklace and matching earrings) as a single line item.
[65 FR 45539, July 24, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 2396, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 102-42.100
How can we obtain an excess gift or decoration from another agency?
To obtain an excess gift or decoration from another agency, you would complete a Standard Form (SF) 122, Transfer Order Excess Personal Property, or any other transfer order form approved by GSA, for the desired item(s) and submit the form to the General Services Administration, Property Management Division (FBP), Washington, DC 20406.
§ 102-42.105
What special information must be included on the SF 122?
Conspicuously mark the SF 122, “FOREIGN GIFTS AND/OR DECORATIONS”, and include all information furnished by the employing agency as specified in § 102-42.95. Also, include on the form the following statement: “At such time as these items are no longer required, they will be reported to the General Services Administration, Property Management Division (FBP), Washington, DC 20406, and will be identified as foreign gift items and cross-referenced to this transfer order number.”
§ 102-42.110
How must we justify a transfer request?
You may only request excess gifts and decorations for public display or other bona fide agency use and not for the personal benefit of any individual. GSA may require that transfer orders be supported by justifications for the intended display or official use of requested gifts and decorations. Jewelry and watches that are transferred for official display must be displayed with adequate provisions for security.
§ 102-42.115
What must we do when the transferred gifts and decorations are no longer required for official use?
When transferred gifts and decorations are no longer required for official use, report these gifts and decorations to the GSA as excess property on a SF 120, including the original transfer order number or a copy of the original transfer order.

# Subpart C—Donation of Foreign Gifts and Decorations
§ 102-42.120
When may gifts or decorations be donated to State agencies?
If there is no Federal requirement for the gifts or decorations, and if gifts were not sold to the employee, GSA may make the gifts or decorations available for donation to State agencies under this subpart and part 102-37 of this subchapter B.
[65 FR 45539, July 24, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 28778, May 18, 2006]
§ 102-42.125
How is donation of gifts or decorations accomplished?
The State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASP) must initiate the process on behalf of a prospective donee (e.g., units of State or local governments and eligible non-profit organizations) by:
(a) Completing a Standard Form (SF) 123, Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property, and submitting it to General Services Administration, Property Management Division (FBP), Washington, DC 20406. Conspicuously mark the SF 123 with the words, “FOREIGN GIFTS AND/OR DECORATIONS.”
(b) Attaching an original and two copies of a letter of intent to each SF 123 submitted to GSA. An authorized representative of the proposed donee must sign and date the letter, setting forth a detailed plan for use of the
property. The letter of intent must provide the following information:
(1) Identifying the donee applicant, including its legal name and complete address, its status as a public agency or as an eligible nonprofit tax-exempt activity, and the name, title, and telephone number of its authorized representative;
(2) A description of the gift or decoration requested, including the gift's commercially appraised value or estimated fair market value if no commercial appraisal was performed; and
(3) Details on the planned use of the gift or decoration, including where and how it will be used and how it will be safeguarded.
§ 102-42.130
Are there special requirements for the donation of gifts and decorations?
Yes, GSA imposes special handling and use limitations on the donation of gifts and decorations. The SASP distribution document must contain or incorporate by reference the following:
(a) The donee must display or use the gift or decoration in accordance with its GSA-approved letter of intent.
(b) There must be a period of restriction which will expire after the gift or decoration has been used for the purpose stated in the letter of intent for a period of 10 years, except that GSA may restrict the use of the gift or decoration for such other period when the inherent character of the property justifies such action.
(c) The donee must allow the right of access to the donee's premises at reasonable times for inspection of the gift or decoration by duly authorized representatives of the SASP or the U.S. Government.
(d) During the period of restriction, the donee must not:
(1) Sell, trade, lease, lend, bail, encumber, cannibalize or dismantle for parts, or otherwise dispose of the property;
(2) Remove it permanently for use outside the State;
(3) Transfer title to the gift or decoration directly or indirectly; or
(4) Do or allow anything to be done that would contribute to the gift or decoration being seized, attached, lost, stolen, damaged, or destroyed.
(e) If the gift or decoration is no longer suitable, usable, or needed by the donee for the stated purpose of donation during the period of restriction, the donee must promptly notify the General Services Administration, Property Management Division (FBP), Washington, DC 20406, through the SASP, and upon demand by GSA, title and right to possession of the gift or decoration reverts to the U.S. Government. In this event, the donee must comply with transfer or disposition instructions furnished by GSA through the SASP, and pay the costs of transportation, handling, and reasonable insurance during transportation.
(f) The donee must comply with all additional conditions covering the handling and use of any gift or decoration imposed by GSA.
(g) If the donee fails to comply with the conditions or limitations during the period of restriction, the SASP may demand return of the gift or decoration and, upon such demand, title and right to possession of the gift or decoration reverts to the U.S. Government. In this event, the donee must return the gift or decoration in accordance with instructions furnished by the SASP, with costs of transportation, handling, and reasonable insurance during transportation to be paid by the donee or as directed by the SASP.
(h) If the gift or decoration is lost, stolen, or cannot legally be recovered or returned for any other reason, the donee must pay to the U.S. Government the fair market value of the gift or decoration at the time of its loss, theft, or at the time that it became unrecoverable as determined by GSA. If the gift or decoration is damaged or destroyed, the SASP may require the donee to:
(1) Return the item and pay the difference between its former fair market value and its current fair market value; or
(2) Pay the fair market value, as determined by GSA, of the item had it not been damaged or destroyed.

# Subpart D—Sale or Destruction of Foreign Gifts and Decorations
§ 102-42.135
Whose approval must be obtained before a foreign gift or decoration is offered for public sale?
The Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee must approve any sale of foreign gifts or decorations (except sale of foreign gifts to the employee, that is approved in this part).
§ 102-42.140
How is a sale of a foreign gift or decoration to an employee conducted?
Foreign gifts and decorations must be offered first through negotiated sales to the employee who has indicated an interest in purchasing the item. The sale price must be the commercially appraised value of the gift. Sales must be conducted and documented in accordance with part 102-38 of this subchapter B.
[68 FR 56496, Sept. 4, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 28778, May 18, 2006]
§ 102-42.145
When is public sale of a foreign gift or decoration authorized?
A public sale is authorized if a foreign gift or decoration:
(a) Survives Federal utilization screening;
(b) Is not purchased by the employee;
(c) Survives donation screening; and
(d) Is approved by the Secretary of State or designee.
§ 102-42.150
What happens to proceeds from sales?
The proceeds from the sale of foreign gifts or decorations must be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, unless otherwise authorized.
§ 102-42.155
Can foreign gifts or decorations be destroyed?
Yes, foreign gifts or decorations that are not sold under this part may be destroyed and disposed of as scrap or for their material content under part 102-38 of this subchapter B.
[65 FR 45539, July 24, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 28778, May 18, 2006]
PARTS 102-43—102-70 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER C—REAL PROPERTY
Pt. 102-71

# PART 102-71—GENERAL
Sec.
102-71.5
What is the scope and philosophy of the General Services Administration's (GSA) real property policies?
102-71.10
How are these policies organized?
102-71.15
[Reserved]
102-71.20
What definitions apply to GSA's real property policies?
102-71.25
Who must comply with GSA's real property policies?
102-71.30
How must these real property policies be implemented?
102-71.35
Are agencies allowed to deviate from GSA's real property policies?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c).

# Source:
70 FR 67786, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-71.5
What is the scope and philosophy of the General Services Administration's (GSA) real property policies?
GSA's real property policies contained in this part and parts 102-72 through 102-82 of this chapter apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service (PBS), operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services. These policies cover the acquisition, management, utilization, and disposal of real property by Federal agencies that initiate and have decision-making authority over actions for real property services. The detailed guidance implementing these policies is contained in separate customer service guides.
§ 102-71.10
How are these policies organized?
GSA has divided its real property policies into the following functional areas:
(a) Delegation of authority.
(b) Real estate acquisition.
(c) Facility management.
(d) Real property disposal.
(e) Design and construction.
(f) Art-in-architecture.
(g) Historic preservation.
(h) Assignment and utilization of space.
(i) Safety and environmental management.
(j) Security.
(k) Utility services.
(l) Location of space.
§ 102-71.15
[Reserved]
§ 102-71.20
What definitions apply to GSA's real property policies?
The following definitions apply to GSA's real property policies:
Airport
means any area of land or water that is used, or intended for use, for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas that are used, or intended for use, for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-of-way, together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon.
Alteration
means remodeling, improving, extending, or making other changes to a facility, exclusive of maintenance repairs that are preventive in nature. The term includes planning, engineering, architectural work, and other similar actions.
Carpool
means a group of two or more people regularly using a motor vehicle for transportation to and from work on a continuing basis.
Commercial activities
, within the meaning of subpart D, part 102-74 of this chapter, are activities undertaken for the primary purpose of producing a profit for the benefit of an individual or organization organized for profit. (Activities where commercial aspects are incidental to the primary purpose of expression of ideas or advocacy of causes are not commercial activities for purposes of this part.)
Cultural activities
include, but are not limited to, films, dramatics, dances, musical presentations, and fine art exhibits, whether or not these activities are intended to make a profit.
Decontamination
means the complete removal or destruction by flashing of explosive powders; the neutralizing and cleaning-out of acid and corrosive materials; the removal, destruction, or neutralizing of toxic, hazardous or infectious substances; and the complete removal and destruction by burning or detonation of live ammunition from contaminated areas and buildings.
Designated Official
is the highest ranking official of the primary occupant agency of a Federal facility, or, alternatively, a designee selected by mutual agreement of occupant agency officials.
Disabled employee
means an employee who has a severe, permanent impairment that for all practical purposes precludes the use of public transportation, or an employee who is unable to operate a car as a result of permanent impairment who is driven to work by another. Priority may require certification by an agency medical unit, including the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Public Health Service.
Disposal agency
means the Executive agency designated by the Administrator of General Services to dispose of surplus real or personal property.
Educational activities
mean activities such as (but not limited to) the operation of schools, libraries, day care centers, laboratories, and lecture or demonstration facilities.
Emergency
includes bombings and bomb threats, civil disturbances, fires, explosions, electrical failures, loss of water pressure, chemical and gas leaks, medical emergencies, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and earthquakes. The term does not apply to civil defense matters such as potential or actual enemy attacks that are addressed by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
Executive
means a Government employee with management responsibilities who, in the judgment of the employing agency head or his/her designee, requires preferential assignment of parking privileges.
Executive agency
means an Executive department specified in section 101 of title 5; a military department specified in section 102 of such title; an independent establishment as defined in section 104(1) of such title; and a wholly owned Government corporation fully subject to the provisions of chapter 91 of title 31.
Federal agency
means any Executive agency or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under his or her direction).
Federal agency buildings manager
means the buildings manager employed by GSA or a Federal agency that has been delegated real property management and operation authority from GSA.
Federal Government real property services provider
means any Federal Government entity operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services that provides real property services to Federal agencies. This definition also includes private sector firms under contract with Federal agencies that deliver real property services to Federal agencies. This definition excludes any entity operating under, or subject to, authorities other than those of the Administrator of General Services.
Flame-resistant
means meeting performance standards as described by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA Standard No. 701). Fabrics labeled with the Underwriters Laboratories Inc., classification marking for flammability are deemed to be flame resistant for purposes of this part.
Foot-candle
is the illumination on a surface one square foot in area on which there is a uniformly distributed flux of one lumen, or the illuminance produced on a surface all points of which are at a distance of one foot from a directionally uniform point source of one candela.
GSA
means the U.S. General Services Administration, acting by or through the Administrator of General Services, or a designated official to whom functions under this part have been delegated by the Administrator of General Services.
Highest and best use
means the most likely use to which a property can be put, which will produce the highest monetary return from the property, promote its maximum value, or serve a public or institutional purpose. The highest and best use determination must be based on the property's economic potential, qualitative values (social and environmental) inherent in the property itself, and other utilization factors controlling or directly affecting land use (e.g., zoning, physical characteristics, private and public uses in the vicinity, neighboring improvements, utility services, access, roads, location,
and environmental and historical considerations). Projected highest and best use should not be remote, speculative, or conjectural.
Indefinite quantity contract
(commonly referred to as
term contract
) provides for the furnishing of an indefinite quantity, within stated limits, of specific property or services during a specified contract period, with deliveries to be scheduled by the timely placement of orders with the contractor by activities designated either specifically or by class.
Industrial property
means any real property and related personal property that has been used or that is suitable to be used for manufacturing, fabricating, or processing of products; mining operations; construction or repair of ships and other waterborne carriers; power transmission facilities; railroad facilities; and pipeline facilities for transporting petroleum or gas.
Landholding agency
means the Federal agency that has accountability for the property involved. For the purposes of this definition, accountability means that the Federal agency reports the real property on its financial statements and inventory records.
Landing area
means any land or combination of water and land, together with improvements thereon and necessary operational equipment used in connection therewith, which is used for landing, takeoff, and parking of aircraft. The term includes, but is not limited to, runways, strips, taxiways, and parking aprons.
Life cycle cost
is the total cost of owning, operating, and maintaining a building over its useful life, including its fuel and energy costs, determined on the basis of a systematic evaluation and comparison of alternative building systems; except that in the case of leased buildings, the life cycle cost shall be calculated over the effective remaining term of the lease.
Limited combustible
means rigid materials or assemblies that have fire hazard ratings not exceeding 25 for flame spread and 150 for smoke development when tested in accordance with the American Society for Testing and Materials, Test E 84, Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials.
Maintenance
, for the purposes of part 102-75, entitled “Real Property Disposal,” of this chapter, means the upkeep of property only to the extent necessary to offset serious deterioration; also such operation of utilities, including water supply and sewerage systems, heating, plumbing, and air-conditioning equipment, as may be necessary for fire protection, the needs of interim tenants, and personnel employed at the site, and the requirements for preserving certain types of equipment. For the purposes of part 102-74, entitled “Facility Management,” of this chapter, maintenance means preservation by inspection, adjustment, lubrication, cleaning, and the making of minor repairs.
Ordinary maintenance
means routine recurring work that is incidental to everyday operations;
preventive maintenance
means work programmed at scheduled intervals.
Management
means the safeguarding of the Government's interest in property, in an efficient and economical manner consistent with the best business practices.
Nationally recognized standards
encompasses any standard or modification thereof that—
(1) Has been adopted and promulgated by a nationally recognized standards-producing organization under procedures whereby those interested and affected by it have reached substantial agreement on its adoption; or
(2) Was formulated through consultation by appropriate Federal agencies in a manner that afforded an opportunity for diverse views to be considered.
No commercial value
means real property, including related personal property, which has no reasonable prospect of producing any disposal revenues.
Nonprofit organization
means an organization identified in 26 U.S.C. 501(c).
Normally furnished commercially
means consistent with the level of services provided by a commercial building operator for space of comparable quality and housing tenants with comparable requirements. Service levels are based on the effort required to service space for a five-day week, one eight-hour shift schedule.
Occupancy Emergency Organization
means the emergency response organization comprised of employees of Federal agencies designated to perform the requirements established by the Occupant Emergency Plan.
Occupant agency
means an organization that is assigned space in a facility under GSA's custody and control.
Occupant Emergency Plan
means procedures developed to protect life and property in a specific federally occupied space under stipulated emergency conditions.
Occupant Emergency Program
means a short-term emergency response program. It establishes procedures for safeguarding lives and property during emergencies in particular facilities.
Postal vehicle
means a Government-owned vehicle used for the transportation of mail, or a privately owned vehicle used under contract with the U.S. Postal Service for the transportation of mail.
Protection
means the provisions of adequate measures for prevention and extinguishment of fires, special inspections to determine and eliminate fire and other hazards, and necessary guards to protect property against thievery, vandalism, and unauthorized entry.
Public area
means any area of a building under the control and custody of GSA that is ordinarily open to members of the public, including lobbies, courtyards, auditoriums, meeting rooms, and other such areas not assigned to a lessee or occupant agency.
Public body
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the foregoing.
Public building
means:
(1) Any building that is suitable for office and/or storage space for the use of one or more Federal agencies or mixed-ownership corporations, such as Federal office buildings, post offices, customhouses, courthouses, border inspection facilities, warehouses, and any such building designated by the President. It also includes buildings of this sort that are acquired by the Federal Government under the Administrator's installment-purchase, lease-purchase, and purchase-contract authorities.
(2) Public building does not include buildings:
(i) On the public domain.
(ii) In foreign countries.
(iii) On Indian and native Eskimo properties held in trust by the United States.
(iv) On lands used in connection with Federal programs for agricultural, recreational, and conservation purposes.
(v) On or used in connection with river, harbor, flood control, reclamation or power projects, or for chemical manufacturing or development projects, or for nuclear production, research, or development projects.
(vi) On or used in connection with housing and residential projects.
(vii) On military installations.
(viii) On Department of Veterans Affairs installations used for hospital or domiciliary purposes.
(ix) Excluded by the President.
Real property
means:
(1) Any interest in land, together with the improvements, structures, and fixtures located thereon (including prefabricated movable structures, such as Butler-type storage warehouses and Quonset huts, and house trailers with or without undercarriages), and appurtenances thereto, under the control of any Federal agency, except—
(i) The public domain;
(ii) Lands reserved or dedicated for national forest or national park purposes;
(iii) Minerals in lands or portions of lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain that the Secretary of the Interior determines are suitable for disposition under the public land mining and mineral leasing laws;
(iv) Lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain but not including lands or portions of lands so withdrawn or reserved that the Secretary of the Interior, with the concurrence of the Administrator of General Services, determines are not suitable for return to the public domain for disposition under the general public land laws because such lands are substantially changed in character by improvements or otherwise; and
(v) Crops when designated by such agency for disposition by severance and removal from the land.
(2) Improvements of any kind, structures, and fixtures under the control of any Federal agency when designated by such agency for disposition without the underlying land (including such as may be located on the public domain, on lands withdrawn or reserved from the public domain, on lands reserved or dedicated for national forest or national park purposes, or on lands that are not owned by the United States) excluding, however, prefabricated movable structures, such as Butler-type storage warehouses and Quonset huts, and house trailers (with or without undercarriages).
(3) Standing timber and embedded gravel, sand, or stone under the control of any Federal agency, whether designated by such agency for disposition with the land or by severance and removal from the land, excluding timber felled, and gravel, sand, or stone excavated by or for the Government prior to disposition.
Recognized labor organization
means a labor organization recognized under title VII of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-454), as amended, governing labor-management relations.
Recreational activities
include, but are not limited to, the operations of gymnasiums and related facilities.
Regional Officer
, within the meaning of part 102-74, subpart D of this chapter, means the Federal official designated to supervise the implementation of the occasional use provisions of 40 U.S.C. 581(h)(2). The Federal official may be an employee of GSA or a Federal agency that has delegated authority from GSA to supervise the implementation of the occasional use provisions of 40 U.S.C. 581(h)(2).
Related personal property
means any personal property—
(1) That is an integral part of real property or is related to, designed for, or specially adapted to the functional or productive capacity of the real property and the removal of which would significantly diminish the economic value of the real property (normally common use items, including but not limited to general-purpose furniture, utensils, office machines, office supplies, or general-purpose vehicles, are not considered to be related personal property); or
(2) That is determined by the Administrator of General Services to be related to the real property.
Repairs
means those additions or changes that are necessary for the protection and maintenance of property to deter or prevent excessive or rapid deterioration or obsolescence, and to restore property damaged by storm, flood, fire, accident, or earthquake.
Ridesharing
means the sharing of the commute to and from work by two or more people, on a continuing basis, regardless of their relationship to each other, in any mode of transportation, including, but not limited to, carpools, vanpools, buspools, and mass transit.
State
means the fifty States, political subdivisions thereof, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and Guam, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
Unit price agreement
provides for the furnishing of an indefinite quantity, within stated limits, of specific property or services at a specified price, during a specified contract period, with deliveries to be scheduled by the timely placement of orders upon the lessor by activities designated either specifically or by class.
Unusual hours
means work hours that are frequently required to be varied and do not coincide with any regular work schedule. This category includes time worked by individuals who regularly or frequently work significantly more than 8 hours per day. Unusual hours does not include time worked by shift workers, by those on alternate work schedules, and by those granted exceptions to the normal work schedule (e.g., flex-time).
Upon approval from GSA
means when an agency either has a delegation of authority document from the Administrator of General Services or written approval from the Administrator or his/her designee before proceeding with a specified action.
Vanpool
means a group of at least 8 persons using a passenger van or a commuter bus designed to carry 10 or more passengers. Such a vehicle must be used for transportation to and from work in a single daily round trip.
Zonal allocations
means the allocation of parking spaces on the basis of zones established by GSA in conjunction with occupant agencies. In metropolitan areas where this method is used, all agencies located in a designated zone will compete for available parking in accordance with instructions issued by GSA. In establishing this procedure, GSA will consult with all affected agencies.
§ 102-71.25
Who must comply with GSA's real property policies?
Federal agencies operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services must comply with these policies.
§ 102-71.30
How must these real property policies be implemented?
Each Federal Government real property services provider must provide services that are in accord with the policies presented in parts 102-71 through 102-82 of this chapter. Also, Federal agencies must make the provisions of any contract with private sector real property services providers conform to the policies in parts 102-71 through 102-82 of this chapter.
§ 102-71.35
Are agencies allowed to deviate from GSA's real property policies?
Yes, see §§ 102-2.60 through 102-2.110 of this chapter to request a deviation from the requirements of these real property policies.
Pt. 102-72

# PART 102-72—DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-72.5
What is the scope of this part?
102-72.10
What basic policy governs delegation of authority to Federal agencies?

# Subpart B—Delegation of Authority
102-72.15
What criteria must a delegation meet?
102-72.20
Are there limitations on this delegation of authority?
102-72.25
What are the different types of delegations of authority?
102-72.30
What are the different types of delegations related to real estate leasing?
102-72.35
What are the requirements for obtaining an Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) delegation from GSA?
102-72.40
What are facility management delegations?
102-72.45
What are the different types of delegations related to facility management?
102-72.50
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a delegation of real property management and operation authority from GSA?
102-72.55
What are the requirements for obtaining a delegation of real property management and operation authority from GSA?
102-72.60
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a delegation of individual repair and alteration project authority from GSA?
102-72.65
What are the requirements for obtaining a delegation of individual repair and alteration project authority from GSA?
102-72.66
Do Executive agencies have a delegation of authority to perform ancillary repair and alteration projects in federally owned buildings under the jurisdiction, custody or control of GSA?
102-72.67
What work is covered under an ancillary repair and alteration delegation?
102-72.68
What preconditions must be satisfied before an Executive agency may exercise the delegated authority to perform an individual ancillary repair and alteration project?
102-72.69
What additional terms and conditions apply to an Executive agencies' delegation of ancillary repair and alteration authority?
102-72.70
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a delegation of lease management authority (contracting officer representative authority) from GSA?
102-72.75
What are the requirements for obtaining a delegation of lease management authority (contracting officer representative authority) from GSA?
102-72.80
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a disposal of real property delegation of authority from GSA?
102-72.85
What are the requirements for obtaining a disposal of real property delegation of authority from GSA?
102-72.90
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a security delegation of authority from GSA?
102-72.95
What are the requirements for obtaining a security delegation of authority from GSA?
102-72.100
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a utility service delegation of authority from GSA?
102-72.105
What are the requirements for obtaining a utility services delegation of authority from GSA?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c), (d) and (e).

# Source:
70 FR 67789, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-72.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service (PBS), operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services.
§ 102-72.10
What basic policy governs delegation of authority to Federal agencies?
The Administrator of General Services may delegate and may authorize successive redelegations of the real property authority vested in the Administrator to any Federal agency.

# Subpart B—Delegation of Authority
§ 102-72.15
What criteria must a delegation meet?
Delegations must be in the Government's best interest, which means that GSA must evaluate such factors as whether a delegation would be cost effective for the Government in the delivery of space.
§ 102-72.20
Are there limitations on this delegation of authority?
Federal agencies must exercise delegated real property authority and functions according to the parameters described in each delegation of authority document, and Federal agencies may only exercise the authority of the Administrator that is specifically provided within the delegation of authority document.
§ 102-72.25
What are the different types of delegations of authority?
The basic types of GSA Delegations of Authority are—
(a) Delegation of Leasing Authority;
(b) Delegation of Real Property Management and Operation Authority;
(c) Delegation of Individual Repair and Alteration Project Authority;
(d) Delegation of Lease Management Authority (Contracting Office Representative Authority);
(e) Delegation of Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) Authority;
(f) Delegation of Real Property Disposal Authority;
(g) Security Delegation of Authority; and
(h) Utility Services Delegation of Authority.
§ 102-72.30
What are the different types of delegations related to real estate leasing?
Delegations related to real estate leasing include the following:
(a) Categorical space delegations and agency special purpose space delegations (see § 102-73.140 of this title).
(b) The Administrator of General Services has issued a standing delegation of authority (under a program known as “Can't Beat GSA Leasing”) to the heads of all Federal agencies to accomplish all functions relating to leasing of up to 19,999 rentable square feet of general purpose space for terms of up to 20 years and below prospectus level requirements, regardless of geographic location. This delegation includes some conditions Federal agencies must meet when conducting the procurement themselves, such as training in lease contracting and reporting data to GSA.
(c) An ACO delegation, in addition to lease management authority, provides Federal agencies with limited contracting officer authority to perform such duties as paying and withholding lessor rent and modifying lease provisions that do not change the lease term length or the amount of space under lease.
[70 FR 67789, Nov. 8, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 2167, Jan. 14, 2008]
§ 102-72.35
What are the requirements for obtaining an Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) delegation from GSA?
When Federal agencies do not exercise the delegation of authority for general purpose space mentioned in § 102-72.30(b) of this part, GSA may consider granting an ACO delegation when Federal agencies—
(a) Occupy at least 90 percent of the building's GSA-controlled space, or Federal agencies have the written concurrence of 100 percent of rent-paying occupants covered under the lease; and
(b) Have the technical capability to perform the leasing function.
§ 102-72.40
What are facility management delegations?
Facility management delegations give Executive agencies authority to operate and manage buildings day to day, to perform individual repair and alteration projects, and manage real property leases.
§ 102-72.45
What are the different types of delegations related to facility management?
The principal types of delegations involved in the management of facilities are—
(a) Real property management and operation authority;
(b) Individual repair and alteration project authority; and
(c) Lease management authority (contracting officer representative authority).
§ 102-72.50
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a delegation of real property management and operation authority from GSA?
With this delegation, Executive agencies have the authority to operate and manage buildings day to day. Delegated functions may include building operations, maintenance, recurring repairs, minor alterations, historic preservation, concessions, and energy management of specified buildings subject to the conditions in the delegation document.
§ 102-72.55
What are the requirements for obtaining a delegation of real property management and operation authority from GSA?
An Executive agency may be delegated real property management and operation authority when it—
(a) Occupies at least 90 percent of the space in the Government-controlled facility, or has the concurrence of 100 percent of the rent-paying occupants to perform these functions; and
(b) Demonstrates that it can perform the delegated real property management and operation responsibilities.
§ 102-72.60
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a delegation of individual repair and alteration project authority from GSA?
With this delegation of authority, Executive agencies have the responsibility to perform individual repair and alterations projects. Executive agencies are delegated repair and alterations authority for reimbursable space alteration projects up to the simplified acquisition threshold, as specified in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property.
§ 102-72.65
What are the requirements for obtaining a delegation of individual repair and alteration project authority from GSA?
Executive agencies may be delegated repair and alterations authority for other individual alteration projects when they demonstrate the ability to perform the delegated repair and alterations responsibilities and when such a delegation promotes efficiency and economy.
§ 102-72.66
Do Executive agencies have a delegation of authority to perform ancillary repair and alteration projects in federally owned buildings under the jurisdiction, custody or control of GSA?
Yes. Executive agencies, as defined in § 102-71.20, are hereby delegated the authority to perform ancillary repair and alteration work in federally owned buildings under the jurisdiction, custody or control of GSA in accordance with the terms, conditions and limitations set forth in §§ 102-72.67 through 102-72.69.
[74 FR 12273, Mar. 24, 2009]
§ 102-72.67
What work is covered under an ancillary repair and alteration delegation?
(a) For purposes of this delegation, ancillary repair and alteration projects are those—
(1) Where an Executive agency has placed an order from a vendor under a GSA Multiple Award Schedule and ancillary repair and alteration services
also are available from that same vendor as a Special Item Number (SIN);
(2) Where the ancillary repair and alteration work to be performed is associated solely with the repair, alteration, delivery, or installation of products or services also purchased under the same GSA Multiple Award Schedule;
(3) That are routine and non-complex in nature, such as routine painting or carpeting, simple hanging of drywall, basic electrical or plumbing work, landscaping, and similar non-complex services; and
(4) That are necessary to be performed to use, execute or implement successfully the products or services purchased from the GSA Multiple Award Schedule.
(b) Ancillary repair and alteration projects do not include—
(1) Major or new construction of buildings, roads, parking lots, and other facilities;
(2) Complex repair and alteration of entire facilities or significant portions of facilities; or
(3) Architectural and engineering services procured pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 1101-1104.
[74 FR 12273, Mar. 24, 2009]
§ 102-72.68
What preconditions must be satisfied before an Executive agency may exercise the delegated authority to perform an individual ancillary repair and alteration project?
The preconditions that must be satisfied before an Executive agency may perform ancillary repair and alteration work are as follows:
(a) The ordering agency must order both the products or services and the ancillary repair and alteration services under the same GSA Multiple Award Schedule from the same vendor;
(b) The value of the ancillary repair and alteration work must be less than or equal to $100,000 (for work estimated to exceed $100,000, the Executive agency must contact the GSA Assistant Regional Administrator, Public Buildings Service, in the region where the work is to be performed to request a specific delegation);
(c) All terms and conditions applicable to the acquisition of ancillary repair and alteration work as required by the GSA Multiple Award Schedule ordering procedures must be satisfied;
(d) The ancillary repair and alteration work must not be in a facility leased by GSA or in any other leased facility acquired under a lease delegation from GSA; and
(e) As soon as reasonably practicable, the Executive agency must provide the building manager with a detailed scope of work, including cost estimates, and schedule for the project, and such other information as may be reasonably requested by the building manager, so the building manager can determine whether or not the proposed work is reasonably expected to have an adverse effect on the operation and management of the building, the building's structural, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, or heating and air conditioning systems, the building's aesthetic or historic features, or the space or property of any other tenant in the building. The Executive agency must obtain written approval from the building manager prior to placing an order for any ancillary repair and alteration work.
[74 FR 12273, Mar. 24, 2009]
§ 102-72.69
What additional terms and conditions apply to an Executive agencies' delegation of ancillary repair and alteration authority?
(a) Before commencing any ancillary repair and alteration work, the Executive agency shall deliver, or cause its contractor to deliver, to the building manager evidence that the contractor has obtained at least $5,000,000 comprehensive general public liability and property damage insurance policies to cover claims arising from or relating to the contractor's operations that cause damage to persons or property; such insurance shall name the United States as an additional insured.
(b) The Executive agency shall agree that GSA has no responsibility or liability, either directly or indirectly, for any contractual claims or disputes that arise out of or relate to the performance of ancillary repair and alteration work, except to the extent such claim or dispute arises out of or relates to the wrongful acts or negligence of GSA's agents or employees.
(c) The Executive agency shall agree to administer and defend any claims and actions, and shall be responsible for the payment of any judgments rendered or settlements agreed to, in connection with contract claims or other causes of action arising out of or relating to the performance of the ancillary repair and alteration work.
(d) For buildings under GSA's custody and control, GSA shall have the right, but not the obligation, to review the work from time to time to ascertain that it is being performed in accordance with the approved project requirements, schedules, plans, drawings, specifications, and other related construction documents. The Executive agency shall promptly correct, or cause to be corrected, any non-conforming work or property damage identified by GSA, including damage to the space or property of any other tenant in the building, at no cost or expense to GSA.
(e) The Executive agency shall remain liable and financially responsible to GSA for any and all personal or property damage caused, in whole or in part, by the acts or omissions of the Executive agency, its employees, agents, and contractors.
(f) If the cost or expense to GSA to operate the facility is increased as a result of the ancillary repair and alteration project, the Executive agency shall be responsible for any such costs or expenses.
(g) Disputes between the Executive agency and GSA arising out of the ancillary repair and alteration work will, to the maximum extent practicable, be resolved informally at the working level. In the event a dispute cannot be resolved informally, the matter shall be referred to GSA's Public Buildings Service. The Executive agency agrees that, in the event GSA's Public Buildings Service and the Executive agency fail to resolve the dispute, they shall refer it for resolution to the Administrator of General Services, whose decision shall be binding.
[74 FR 12273, Mar. 24, 2009]
§ 102-72.70
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a delegation of lease management authority (contracting officer representative authority) from GSA?
When an Executive agency does not exercise the delegation of authority mentioned in § 102-72.30(b) to lease general purpose space itself, it may be delegated, upon request, lease management authority to manage the administration of one or more lease contracts awarded by GSA.
§ 102-72.75
What are the requirements for obtaining a delegation of lease management authority (contracting officer representative authority) from GSA?
An Executive agency may be delegated lease management authority when it—
(a) Occupies at least 90 percent of the building's GSA-controlled space or has the written concurrence of 100 percent of rent-paying occupants covered under the lease to perform this function; and
(b) Demonstrates the ability to perform the delegated lease management responsibilities.
§ 102-72.80
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a disposal of real property delegation of authority from GSA?
With this delegation, Executive agencies have the authority to utilize and dispose of excess or surplus real and related personal property and to grant approvals and make determinations, subject to the conditions in the delegation document.
§ 102-72.85
What are the requirements for obtaining a disposal of real property delegation of authority from GSA?
While disposal delegations to Executive agencies are infrequent, GSA may delegate authority to them based on situations involving certain low-value properties and when they can demonstrate that they have the technical expertise to perform the disposition functions. GSA may grant special delegations of authority to Executive agencies for the utilization and disposal of certain real property through the procedures set forth in part 102-75, subpart F of this chapter.
§ 102-72.90
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a security delegation of authority from GSA?
Law enforcement and related security functions were transferred to the Department of Homeland Security upon its establishment in 2002. The Homeland Security Act authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Administrator of General Services, to issue regulations necessary for the protection and administration of property owned or occupied by the Federal Government and persons on the property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, GSA retained all powers, functions and authorities necessary for the operation, maintenance, and protection of buildings and grounds owned and occupied by the Federal Government and under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of GSA.
§ 102-72.95
What are the requirements for obtaining a security delegation of authority from GSA?
An Executive agency may request a security delegation from GSA by submitting a written request with the detailed basis for the requested delegation to the Assistant Regional Administrator, PBS, in the region where the building is located. A request for multiple buildings in multiple regions should be directed to the Commissioner of PBS. The delegation may be granted where the requesting agency demonstrates a compelling need for the delegated authority and the delegation is not inconsistent with the authorities of any other law enforcement agency.
§ 102-72.100
What are Executive agencies' responsibilities under a utility service delegation of authority from GSA?
With this delegation, Executive agencies have the authority to negotiate and execute utility services contracts for periods over one year but not exceeding ten years for their use and benefit. Agencies also have the authority to intervene in utility rate proceedings to represent the consumer interests of the Federal Government, if so provided in the delegation of authority.
§ 102-72.105
What are the requirements for obtaining a utility services delegation of authority from GSA?
Executive agencies may be delegated utility services authority when they have the technical expertise and adequate staffing.
Pt. 102-73

# PART 102-73—REAL ESTATE ACQUISITION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-73.5
What is the scope of this part?
102-73.10
What is the basic real estate acquisition policy?
102-73.15
What real estate acquisition and related services may Federal agencies provide?

# United States Postal Service-Controlled Space
102-73.20
Are Federal agencies required to give priority consideration to space in buildings under the custody and control of the United States Postal Service in fulfilling Federal agency space needs?

# Locating Federal Facilities
102-73.25
What policies must Executive agencies comply with in locating Federal facilities?

# Historic Preservation
102-73.30
What historic preservation provisions must Federal agencies comply with prior to acquiring, constructing, or leasing space?

# Prospectus Requirements
102-73.35
Is a prospectus required for all acquisition, construction, or alteration projects?
102-73.40
What happens if the dollar value of the project exceeds the prospectus threshold?

# Subpart B—Acquisition by Lease
102-73.45
When may Federal agencies consider leases of privately owned land and buildings to satisfy their space needs?
102-73.50
Are Federal agencies that possess independent statutory authority to acquire leased space subject to requirements of this part?
102-73.55
On what basis must Federal agencies acquire leases?
102-73.60
With whom may Federal agencies enter into lease agreements?
102-73.65
Are there any limitations on leasing certain types of space?
102-73.70
Are Executive agencies required to acquire leased space by negotiation?
102-73.75
What functions must Federal agencies perform with regard to leasing building space?
102-73.80
Who is authorized to contact lessors, offerors, or potential offerors concerning space leased or to be leased?
102-73.85
Can agencies with independent statutory authority to lease space have GSA perform the leasing functions?
102-73.90
What contingent fee policy must Federal agencies apply to the acquisition of real property by lease?
102-73.95
How are Federal agencies required to assist GSA?

# Competition in Contracting Act of 1984
102-73.100
Is the Competition in Contracting Act of 1984, as amended (CICA), applicable to lease acquisition?

# National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA)
102-73.105
What policies must Federal agencies follow to implement the requirements of NEPA when acquiring real property by lease?

# Lease Construction
102-73.110
What rules must Executive agencies follow when acquiring leasehold interests in buildings constructed for Federal Government use?

# Price Preference for Historic Properties
102-73.115
Must Federal agencies offer a price preference to space in historic properties when acquiring leased space?
102-73.120
How much of a price preference must Federal agencies give when acquiring leased space using the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process?
102-73.125
How much of a price preference must Federal agencies give when acquiring leased space using the best value tradeoff source selection process?

# Leases With Purchase Options
102-73.130
When may Federal agencies consider acquiring leases with purchase options?

# Scoring Rules
102-73.135
What scoring rules must Federal agencies follow when considering leases and leases with purchase options?

# Delegations of Leasing Authority
102-73.140
When may agencies that do not possess independent leasing authority lease space?

# Categorical Space Delegations
102-73.145
What is a categorical space delegation?
102-73.150
What is the policy for categorical space delegations?
102-73.155
What types of space can Federal agencies acquire with a categorical space delegation?

# Special Purpose Space Delegations
102-73.160
What is an agency special purpose space delegation?
102-73.165
What is the policy for agency special purpose space delegations?
102-73.170
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Agriculture lease?
102-73.175
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Commerce lease?
102-73.180
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Defense lease?
102-73.185
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Energy lease?
102-73.190
What types of special purpose space may the Federal Communications Commission lease?
102-73.195
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Health and Human Services lease?
102-73.196
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Homeland Security lease?
102-73.200
What types of special purpose space may the Department of the Interior lease?
102-73.205
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Justice lease?
102-73.210
What types of special purpose space may the Office of Thrift Supervision lease?
102-73.215
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Transportation lease?
102-73.220
What types of special purpose space may the Department of the Treasury lease?
102-73.225
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Veterans Affairs lease?

# Limitations on the Use of Delegated Authority
102-73.230
When must Federal agencies submit a prospectus to lease real property?
102-73.235
What is the maximum lease term that a Federal agency may agree to when it has been delegated lease acquisition authority from GSA?
102-73.240
What policy must Federal agencies follow to acquire official parking spaces?

# Subpart C—Acquisition by Purchase or Condemnation

# Buildings
102-73.245
When may Federal agencies consider purchase of buildings?
102-73.250
Are agencies required to adhere to the policies for locating Federal facilities when purchasing buildings?
102-73.255
What factors must Executive agencies consider when purchasing sites?

# Land
102-73.260
What land acquisition policy must Federal agencies follow?
102-73.265
What actions must Federal agencies take to facilitate land acquisition?

# Just Compensation
102-73.270
Are Federal agencies required to provide the owner with a written statement of the amount established as just compensation?
102-73.275
What specific information must be included in the summary statement for the owner that explains the basis for just compensation?
102-73.280
Where can Federal agencies find guidance on how to appraise the value of properties being acquired by the Federal Government?
102-73.285
[Reserved]
102-73.290
Are there any prohibitions when a Federal agency pays “just compensation” to a tenant?

# Expenses Incidental to Property Transfer
102-73.295
What property transfer expenses must Federal agencies cover when acquiring real property?

# Litigation Expenses
102-73.300
Are Federal agencies required to pay for litigation expenses incurred by a property owner because of a condemnation proceeding?

# Relocation Assistance Policy
102-73.305
What relocation assistance policy must Federal agencies follow?

# Subpart D—Secure Federal Leases From Espionage and Suspicious Entanglements Act
102-73.310
What are the governing authorities for this subpart?
102-73.315
What definitions apply to this subpart?
102-73.320
Who must comply with these provisions?

# Information Collection
102-73.325
What information must a covered entity provide to a Federal lessee?
102-73.330
What information must a Federal lessee provide to GSA?
102-73.335
When must Federal lessees provide information to GSA?
102-73.340
How must Federal lessees provide information to GSA?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); sec. 3(c), Reorganization Plan No. 18 of 1950 (40 U.S.C. 301 note); sec. 1-201(b), E.O. 12072, as amended by E.O. 13946, 85 FR 52879, Aug 27, 2020; Pub. L. 116-276, 134 Stat. 3362.

# Source:
70 FR 67791, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-73.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service, operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services; except for subpart D of this part, which applies to Federal agencies exercising independent leasing authority in addition to those agencies operating under or subject to the authorities of the Administrator of General Services.
[88 FR 14065, Mar. 7, 2023]
§ 102-73.10
What is the basic real estate acquisition policy?
When seeking to acquire space, Federal agencies should first seek space in Government-owned and Government-leased buildings. If suitable Government-controlled space is unavailable, Federal agencies must acquire real estate and related services in an efficient and cost effective manner.
§ 102-73.15
What real estate acquisition and related services may Federal agencies provide?
Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, may provide real estate acquisition and related services, including leasing (with or without purchase options), building and/or site purchase, condemnation, and relocation assistance. For information on the design and construction of Federal facilities, see part 102-76 of this chapter.

# United States Postal Service-Controlled Space
§ 102-73.20
Are Federal agencies required to give priority consideration to space in buildings under the custody and control of the United States Postal Service in fulfilling Federal agency space needs?
Yes, after considering the availability of GSA-controlled space and determining that no such space is available to meet its needs, Federal agencies must extend priority consideration to available space in buildings under the custody and control of the United States Postal Service (USPS) in fulfilling Federal agency space needs, as specified in the “Agreement Between General Services Administration and the United States Postal Service Covering Real and Personal Property Relationships and Associated Services,” dated July 1985.

# Locating Federal Facilities
§ 102-73.25
What policies must Executive agencies comply with in locating Federal facilities?
Executive agencies must comply with the location policies in this part and part 102-83 of this chapter.

# Historic Preservation
§ 102-73.30
What historic preservation provisions must Federal agencies comply with prior to acquiring, constructing, or leasing space?
Prior to acquiring, constructing, or leasing space, Federal agencies must comply with the provisions of section 110(a) of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470h-2(a)), regarding the use of historic properties. Federal agencies can find guidance on protecting, enhancing, and preserving historic and cultural property in part 102-78 of this chapter.

# Prospectus Requirements
§ 102-73.35
Is a prospectus required for all acquisition, construction, or alteration projects?
No, a prospectus is not required if the dollar value of a project does not exceed the prospectus threshold. 40 U.S.C. 3307 establishes a prospectus threshold, applicable to Federal agencies operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services, for the construction, alteration, purchase, and acquisition of any building to be used as a public building, and establishes a prospectus threshold to lease any space for use for public purposes. The current prospectus threshold value for each fiscal year can be accessed by entering GSA's Web site at
http://www.gsa.gov
and then inserting “prospectus thresholds” in the search mechanism in the upper right-hand corner of the page.
§ 102-73.40
What happens if the dollar value of the project exceeds the prospectus threshold?
Projects require approval by the Senate and the House of Representatives if the dollar value of a project exceeds the prospectus threshold. To obtain this approval, the Administrator of General Services will transmit the proposed prospectuses to Congress for consideration by the Senate and the House of Representatives. Furthermore, as indicated in § 102-72.30(b), the general purpose lease delegation authority is restricted to below the prospectus threshold, and therefore, GSA must conduct all lease acquisitions over the threshold.

# Subpart B—Acquisition by Lease
§ 102-73.45
When may Federal agencies consider leases of privately owned land and buildings to satisfy their space needs?
Federal agencies may consider leases of privately owned land and buildings only when needs cannot be met satisfactorily in Government-controlled space and one or more of the following conditions exist:
(a) Leasing is more advantageous to the Government than constructing a new building, or more advantageous than altering an existing Federal building.
(b) New construction or alteration is unwarranted because demand for space in the community is insufficient, or is indefinite in scope or duration.
(c) Federal agencies cannot provide for the completion of a new building within a reasonable time.
§ 102-73.50
Are Federal agencies that possess independent statutory authority to acquire leased space subject to requirements of this part?
No, Federal agencies possessing independent statutory authority to acquire leased space are not subject to GSA authority and, therefore, may not be subject to the requirements of this part. However, lease prospectus approval requirements of 40 U.S.C. Section 3307 may still apply appropriations to lease of space for public purposes under an agency's independent leasing authority.
§ 102-73.55
On what basis must Federal agencies acquire leases?
Federal agencies must acquire leases on the most favorable basis to the Federal Government, with due consideration to maintenance and operational efficiency, and at charges consistent with prevailing market rates for comparable facilities in the community.
§ 102-73.60
With whom may Federal agencies enter into lease agreements?
Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, may enter into lease agreements with any person, partnership, corporation, or other public or private entity, provided that such lease agreements do not bind the Government for periods in excess of twenty years (40 U.S.C. 585(a)). Federal agencies may not enter into lease agreements with persons who are barred from contracting with the Federal Government (e.g., Members of Congress or debarred or suspended contractors).
§ 102-73.65
Are there any limitations on leasing certain types of space?
Yes, the limitations on leasing certain types of space are as follows:
(a) In general, Federal agencies may not lease any space to accommodate computer and telecommunications operations; secure or sensitive activities related to the national defense or security; or a permanent courtroom, judicial chamber, or administrative office for any United States court, if the average annual net rental cost of leasing such space would exceed the prospectus threshold (40 U.S.C. 3307(f)(1)).
(b) However, Federal agencies may lease such space if the Administrator of General Services first determines that leasing such space is necessary to meet requirements that cannot be met in public buildings, and then submits such determination to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 3307(f)(2).
§ 102-73.70
Are Executive agencies required to acquire leased space by negotiation?
Yes, Executive agencies must acquire leased space by negotiation, except where the sealed bid procedure is required by the Competition in Contracting Act, as amended (CICA) (41 U.S.C. 253(a)).
§ 102-73.75
What functions must Federal agencies perform with regard to leasing building space?
Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, must perform all functions of leasing building space, and land incidental thereto, for their use except as provided in this subpart.
§ 102-73.80
Who is authorized to contact lessor, offerors, or potential offerors concerning space leased or to be leased?
No one, except the Contracting Officer or his or her designee, may contact lessors, offerors, or potential offerors concerning space leased or to be leased for the purpose of making oral or written representation or commitments or agreements with respect to the terms of occupancy of particular space, tenant improvements, alterations and repairs, or payment for overtime services.
§ 102-73.85
Can agencies with independent statutory authority to lease space have GSA perform the leasing functions?
Yes, upon request, GSA may perform, on a reimbursable basis, all functions of leasing building space, and land incidental thereto, for Federal agencies possessing independent statutory authority to lease space. However, GSA reserves the right to accept or reject
reimbursable leasing service requests on a case-by-case basis.
§ 102-73.90
What contingent fee policy must Federal agencies apply to the acquisition of real property by lease?
Federal agencies must apply the contingent fee policies in 48 CFR 3.4 to all negotiated and sealed bid contracts for the acquisition of real property by lease. Federal agencies must appropriately adapt the representations and covenants required by that subpart for use in leases of real property for Government use.
§ 102-73.95
How are Federal agencies required to assist GSA?
The heads of Federal agencies must—
(a) Cooperate with and assist the Administrator of General Services in carrying out his responsibilities respecting office buildings and space;
(b) Take measures to give GSA early notice of new or changing space requirements;
(c) Seek to economize their requirements for space; and
(d) Continuously review their needs for space in and near the District of Columbia, taking into account the feasibility of decentralizing services or activities that can be carried on elsewhere without excessive costs or significant loss of efficiency.

# Competition in Contracting Act of 1984
§ 102-73.100
Is the Competition in Contracting Act of 1984, as amended (CICA), applicable to lease acquisition?
Yes, Executive agencies must obtain full and open competition among suitable locations meeting minimum Government requirements, except as otherwise provided by CICA, 41 U.S.C. 253.

# National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA)
§ 102-73.105
What policies must Federal agencies follow to implement the requirements of NEPA when acquiring real property by lease?
Federal agencies must follow the NEPA policies identified in §§ 102-76.40 and 102-76.45 of this chapter.

# Lease Construction
§ 102-73.110
What rules must Executive agencies follow when acquiring leasehold interests in buildings constructed for Federal Government use?
When acquiring leasehold interests in buildings to be constructed for Federal Government use, Executive agencies must—
(a) Establish detailed building specifications before agreeing to a contract that will result in the construction of a building;
(b) Use competitive procedures;
(c) Inspect every building during construction to ensure that the building complies with the Government's specifications;
(d) Evaluate every building after completion of construction to determine that the building complies with the Government's specifications; and
(e) Ensure that any contract that will result in the construction of a building contains provisions permitting the Government to reduce the rent during any period when the building does not comply with the Government's specifications.

# Price Preference for Historic Properties
§ 102-73.115
Must Federal agencies offer a price preference to space in historic properties when acquiring leased space?
Yes, Federal agencies must give a price preference to space in historic properties when acquiring leased space using either the lowest price technically acceptable or the best value tradeoff source selection processes.
§ 102-73.120
How much of a price preference must Federal agencies give when acquiring leased space using the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process?
Federal agencies must give a price evaluation preference to space in historic properties as follows:
(a) First to suitable historic properties within historic districts, a 10 percent price preference.
(b) If no suitable historic property within an historic district is offered, or
the 10 percent preference does not result in such property being the lowest price technically acceptable offer, the Government will give a 2.5 percent price preference to suitable non-historic developed or undeveloped sites within historic districts.
(c) If no suitable non-historic developed or undeveloped site within an historic district is offered, or the 2.5 percent preference does not result in such property being the lowest price technically acceptable offer, the Government will give a 10 percent price preference to suitable historic properties outside of historic districts.
(d) Finally, if no suitable historic property outside of historic districts is offered, no historic price preference will be given to any property offered.
§ 102-73.125
How much of a price preference must Federal agencies give when acquiring leased space using the best value tradeoff source selection process?
When award will be based on the best value tradeoff source selection process, which permits tradeoffs among price and non-price factors, the Government will give a price evaluation preference to historic properties as follows:
(a) First to suitable historic properties within historic districts, a 10 percent price preference.
(b) If no suitable historic property within an historic district is offered or remains in the competition, the Government will give a 2.5 percent price preference to suitable non-historic developed or undeveloped sites within historic districts.
(c) If no suitable non-historic developed or undeveloped site within an historic district is offered or remains in the competition, the Government will give a 10 percent price preference to suitable historic properties outside of historic districts.
(d) Finally, if no suitable historic property outside of historic districts is offered, no historic price preference will be given to any property offered.

# Leases With Purchase Options
§ 102-73.130
When may Federal agencies consider acquiring leases with purchase options?
Agencies may consider leasing with a purchase option at or below fair market value, consistent with the lease-purchase scoring rules, when one or more of the following conditions exist:
(a) The purchase option offers economic and other advantages to the Government and is consistent with the Government's goals.
(b) The Government is the sole or major tenant of the building, and has a long-term need for the property.
(c) Leasing with a purchase option is otherwise in the best interest of the Government.

# Scoring Rules
§ 102-73.135
What scoring rules must Federal agencies follow when considering leases and leases with purchase options?
All Federal agencies must follow the budget scorekeeping rules for leases, capital leases, and lease-purchases identified in appendices A and B of OMB Circular A-11. (For availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3.)

# Delegations of Leasing Authority
§ 102-73.140
When may agencies that do not possess independent leasing authority lease space?
Federal agencies may perform for themselves all functions necessary to acquire leased space in buildings and land incidental thereto when—
(a) The authority may be delegated (see § 102-72.30) on the different types of delegations related to real estate leasing);
(b) The space may be leased for no rental, or for a nominal consideration of $1 per annum, and is limited to terms not to exceed 1 year;
(c) Authority has been requested by an Executive agency and a specific delegation has been granted by the Administrator of General Services;
(d) A categorical delegation has been granted by the Administrator of General Services for space to accommodate particular types of agency activities, such as military recruiting offices or
space for certain county level agricultural activities (see § 102-73.155 for a listing of categorical delegations); or
(e) The required space is found by the Administrator of General Services to be wholly or predominantly utilized for the special purposes of the agency to occupy such space and is not generally suitable for use by other agencies. Federal agencies must obtain prior approval from the GSA regional office having jurisdiction for the proposed leasing action, before initiating a leasing action involving 2,500 or more square feet of such special purpose space. GSA's approval must be based upon a finding that there is no vacant Government-owned or leased space available that will meet the agency's requirements. Agency special purpose space delegations can be found in §§ 102-73.170 through 102-73.225.

# Categorical Space Delegations
§ 102-73.145
What is a categorical space delegation?
A categorical space delegation is a standing delegation of authority from the Administrator of General Services to a Federal agency to acquire a type of space identified in § 102-73.155, subject to limitations in this part.
§ 102-73.150
What is the policy for categorical space delegations?
Subject to the limitations cited in §§ 102-73.230 through 102-73.240, all Federal agencies are authorized to acquire the types of space listed in § 102-73.155 and, except where otherwise noted, may lease space for terms, including all options, of up to 20 years.
§ 102-73.155
What types of space can Federal agencies acquire with a categorical space delegation?
Federal agencies can use categorical space delegations to acquire—
(a) Space to house antennas, repeaters, or transmission equipment;
(b) Depots, including, but not limited to, stockpiling depots and torpedo net depots;
(c) Docks, piers, and mooring facilities (including closed storage space required in combination with such facilities);
(d) Fumigation areas;
(e) Garage space (may be leased only on a fiscal year basis);
(f) Greenhouses;
(g) Hangars and other airport operating facilities including, but not limited to, flight preparation space, aircraft storage areas, and repair shops;
(h) Hospitals, including medical clinics;
(i) Housing (temporary), including hotels (does not include quarters obtained pursuant to temporary duty travel or employee relocation);
(j) Laundries;
(k) Quarantine facilities for plants, birds, and other animals;
(l) Ranger stations, i.e., facilities that typically include small offices staffed by one or more uniformed employees, and may include sleeping/family quarters, parking areas, garages, and storage space. Office space within ranger stations is minimal and does not comprise a majority of the space. (May also be referred to as guard stations, information centers, or kiosks);
(m) Recruiting space for the armed forces (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years);
(n) Schools directly related to the special purpose function(s) of an agency;
(o) Specialized storage/depot facilities, such as cold storage; self-storage units; and lumber, oil, gasoline, shipbuilding materials, and pesticide materials/equipment storage (general purpose warehouse type storage facilities not included); and
(p) Space for short-term use (such as conferences and meetings, judicial proceedings, and emergency situations).

# Special Purpose Space Delegations
§ 102-73.160
What is an agency special purpose space delegation?
An agency special purpose space delegation is a standing delegation of authority from the Administrator of General Services to specific Federal agencies to lease their own special purpose space (identified in §§ 102-73.170 through 102-73.225), subject to limitations in this part.
§ 102-73.165
What is the policy for agency special purpose space delegations?
Subject to the limitations on annual rental amounts, lease terms, and leases on parking spaces cited in §§ 102-73.230 through 102-73.240, the agencies listed below are authorized to acquire special purpose space associated with that agency and, except where otherwise noted, may lease such space for terms, including all options, of up to 20 years. The agencies and types of space subject to special purpose space delegations are specified in §§ 102-73.170 through 102-73.225.
§ 102-73.170
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Agriculture lease?
The Department of Agriculture is delegated the authority to lease the following types of special purpose space:
(a) Cotton classing laboratories (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(b) Land (if unimproved, may be leased only on a fiscal year basis).
(c) Miscellaneous storage by cubic foot or weight basis.
(d) Office space when required to be located in or adjacent to stockyards, produce markets, produce terminals, airports, and other ports (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(e) Space for agricultural commodities stored in licensed warehouses and utilized under warehouse contracts.
(f) Space utilized in cooperation with State and local governments or their instrumentalities (extension services) where the cooperating State or local government occupies a portion of the space and pays a portion of the rent.
§ 102-73.175
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Commerce lease?
The Department of Commerce is delegated authority to lease the following types of special purpose space:
(a) Space required by the Census Bureau in connection with conducting the decennial census (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(b) Laboratories for testing materials, classified or ordnance devices, calibration of instruments, and atmospheric and oceanic research (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(c) Maritime training stations.
(d) Radio stations.
(e) Land (if unimproved, may be leased only on a fiscal year basis).
(f) National Weather Service meteorological facilities.
§ 102-73.180
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Defense lease?
The Department of Defense is delegated authority to lease the following types of special purpose space:
(a) Air Force—Civil Air Patrol Liaison Offices and land incidental thereto when required for use incidental to, in conjunction with, and in close proximity to airports, including aircraft and warning stations (if unimproved, land may be leased only on a fiscal year basis; for space, lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(b) Armories.
(c) Film library in the vicinity of Washington, DC.
(d) Mess halls.
(e) Ports of embarkation and debarkation.
(f) Post exchanges.
(g) Postal Concentration Center, Long Island City, NY.
(h) Recreation centers.
(i) Reserve training space.
(j) Service clubs.
(k) Testing laboratories (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
§ 102-73.185
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Energy lease?
The Department of Energy, as the successor to the Atomic Energy Commission, is delegated authority to lease facilities housing the special purpose or special location activities of the old Atomic Energy Commission.
§ 102-73.190
What types of special purpose space may the Federal Communications Commission lease?
The Federal Communications Commission is delegated authority to lease monitoring station sites.
§ 102-73.195
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Health and Human Services lease?
The Department of Health and Human Services is delegated authority to lease laboratories (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
§ 102-73.196
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Homeland Security lease?
The Department of Homeland Security is delegated authority to lease whatever space its organizational units or components had authority to lease prior to the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, including—
(a) Border patrol offices similar in character and utilization to police stations, involving the handling of prisoners, firearms, and motor vehicles, regardless of location (lease terms, including all options limited to 5 years);
(b) Space for the U.S. Coast Guard oceanic unit, Woods Hole, MA; and
(c) Space for the U.S. Coast Guard port security activities.
§ 102-73.200
What types of special purpose space may the Department of the Interior lease?
The Department of the Interior is delegated authority to lease the following types of special purpose space:
(a) Space in buildings and land incidental thereto used by field crews of the Bureau of Reclamation, Bureau of Land Management, and the Geological Survey in areas where no other Government agencies are quartered (unimproved land may be leased only on a fiscal year basis).
(b) National Parks/Monuments Visitors Centers consisting primarily of special purpose space (e.g., visitor reception, information, and rest room facilities) and not general office or administrative space.
§ 102-73.205
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Justice lease?
The Department of the Justice is delegated authority to lease the following types of special purpose space:
(a) U.S. marshals office in any Alaska location (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(b) Space used for storage and maintenance of surveillance vehicles and seized property (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(c) Space used for review and custody of records and other evidentiary materials (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(d) Space used for trial preparation where space is not available in Federal buildings, Federal courthouses, USPS facilities, or GSA-leased buildings (lease terms limited to not more than 1 year).
§ 102-73.210
What types of special purpose space may the Office of Thrift Supervision lease?
The Office of Thrift Supervision is delegated authority to lease space for field offices of Examining Divisions required to be located within Office of Thrift Supervision buildings or immediately adjoining or adjacent to such buildings (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
§ 102-73.215
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Transportation lease?
The Department of Transportation is delegated authority to lease the following types of special purpose space (or real property):
(a) Land for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) at airports (unimproved land may be leased only on a fiscal year basis).
(b) General purpose office space not exceeding 10,000 square feet for the FAA at airports in buildings under the jurisdiction of public or private airport authorities (lease terms, including all options, limited to 5 years).
§ 102-73.220
What types of special purpose space may the Department of the Treasury lease?
The Department of the Treasury is delegated authority to lease the following types of special purpose space:
(a) Space and land incidental thereto for the use of the Comptroller of the Currency, as well as the operation, maintenance and custody thereof (if unimproved, land may be leased only on a fiscal year basis; lease term for space, including all options, limited to 5 years).
(b) Aerostat radar facilities necessary for U.S. Custom Service mission activities.
§ 102-73.225
What types of special purpose space may the Department of Veterans Affairs lease?
The Department of Veterans Affairs is delegated authority to lease the following types of special purpose space:
(a) Guidance and training centers located at schools and colleges.
(b) Space used for veterans hospitals, including outpatient and medical-related clinics, such as drug, mental health, and alcohol.

# Limitations on the Use of Delegated Authority
§ 102-73.230
When must Federal agencies submit a prospectus to lease real property?
In accordance with 40 U.S.C. 3307, Federal agencies must submit a prospectus to the Administrator of General Services for leases involving a net annual rental, excluding services and utilities, in excess of the prospectus threshold provided in 40 U.S.C. 3307. Agencies must be aware that prospectus thresholds are indexed and change each year.
§ 102-73.235
What is the maximum lease term that a Federal agency may agree to when it has been delegated lease acquisition authority from GSA?
Pursuant to GSA's authority to enter into lease agreements contained in 40 U.S.C. 585(a)(2), agencies delegated the authorities outlined herein may enter into leases for the term specified in the delegation. In those cases where agency special purposes space delegations include the authority to acquire unimproved land, the land may be leased only on a fiscal year basis.
§ 102-73.240
What policy must Federal agencies follow to acquire official parking spaces?
Federal agencies that need parking must utilize available Government-owned or leased facilities. Federal agencies must make inquiries regarding availability of such Government-controlled space to GSA regional offices and document such inquiries. If no suitable Government-controlled facilities are available, an agency may use its own procurement authority to acquire parking by service contract.

# Subpart C—Acquisition by Purchase or Condemnation

# Buildings
§ 102-73.245
When may Federal agencies consider purchase of buildings?
A Federal agency may consider purchase of buildings on a case-by-case basis if it has landholding authority and when one or more of the following conditions exist:
(a) It is economically more beneficial to own and manage the property.
(b) There is a long-term need for the property.
(c) The property is an existing building, or a building nearing completion, that can be purchased and occupied within a reasonable time.
(d) When otherwise in the best interests of the Government.
§ 102-73.250
Are agencies required to adhere to the policies for locating Federal facilities when purchasing buildings?
Yes, when purchasing buildings, agencies must comply with the location policies in this part and part 102-83 of this chapter.
§ 102-73.255
What factors must Executive agencies consider when purchasing sites?
Agencies must locate proposed Federal buildings on sites that are most advantageous to the United States. Executive agencies must consider factors such as whether the site will contribute to economy and efficiency in the construction, maintenance, and operation of the individual building, and how the proposed site relates to the Government's total space needs in the community. Prior to acquiring, constructing, or leasing buildings (or sites for such buildings), Federal agencies must use, to the maximum extent feasible, historic properties available to the agency. In site selections, Executive agencies must consider Executive Order 12072 (August 16, 1978, 43 FR 36869) and Executive Order 13006 (40
U.S.C. 3306 note). In addition, Executive agencies must consider all of the following:
(a) Maximum utilization of Government-owned land (including excess land) whenever it is adequate, economically adaptable to requirements and properly located, where such use is consistent with the provisions of part 102-75, subpart B, of this chapter.
(b) A site adjacent to or in the proximity of an existing Federal building that is well located and is to be retained for long-term occupancy.
(c) The environmental condition of proposed sites prior to purchase. The sites must be free from contamination, unless it is otherwise determined to be in the best interests of the Government to purchase a contaminated site (e.g., reuse of a site under an established “Brownfields” program).
(d) Purchase options to secure the future availability of a site.
(e) All applicable location policies in this part and part 102-83 of this chapter.

# Land
§ 102-73.260
What land acquisition policy must Federal agencies follow?
Federal agencies must follow the land acquisition policy in the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4651-4655, which—
(a) Encourages and expedites the acquisition of real property by agreements with owners;
(b) Avoids litigation, including condemnation actions, where possible and relieves congestion in the courts;
(c) Provides for consistent treatment of owners; and
(d) Promotes public confidence in Federal land acquisition practices.
§ 102-73.265
What actions must Federal agencies take to facilitate land acquisition?
To facilitate land acquisition, Federal agencies must, among other things—
(a) Appraise the real property before starting negotiations and give the owner (or the owner's representative) the opportunity to accompany the appraiser during the inspection;
(b) Establish an amount estimated to be the just compensation before starting negotiations and promptly offer to acquire the property for this full amount;
(c) Try to negotiate with owners on the price;
(d) Pay the agreed purchase price to the property owner, or in the case of a condemnation, deposit payment in the registry of the court, for the benefit of the owner, before requiring the owner to surrender the property; and
(e) Provide property owners (and occupants) at least 90 days' notice of displacement before requiring anyone to move. If a Federal agency permits the owner to keep possession for a short time after acquiring the owner's property, Federal agencies must not charge rent in excess of the property's fair rental value to a short-term occupier.

# Just Compensation
§ 102-73.270
Are Federal agencies required to provide the owner with a written statement of the amount established as just compensation?
Yes, Federal agencies must provide the owner with a written statement of this amount and summarize the basis for it. When it is appropriate, Federal agencies must separately state the just compensation for the property to be acquired and damages to the remaining real property.
§ 102-73.275
What specific information must be included in the summary statement for the owner that explains the basis for just compensation?
The summary statement must—
(a) Identify the real property and the estate or interest the Federal agency is acquiring;
(b) Identify the buildings, structures, and other improvements the Federal agency considers part of the real property for which just compensation is being offered;
(c) State that the Federal agency based the estimate of just compensation on the Government's estimate of the property's fair market value. If only part of a property or less than a full interest is being acquired, Federal agencies must explain how they determined the just compensation for it; and
(d) State that the Government's estimate of just compensation is at least as much as the property's approved appraisal value.
§ 102-73.280
Where can Federal agencies find guidance on how to appraise the value of properties being acquired by the Federal Government?
The Interagency Land Acquisition Conference has developed, promulgated, and adopted the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions, sometimes referred to as the “Yellow Book.” The Interagency Land Acquisition Conference, established on November 27, 1968, by invitation of the Attorney General, is a voluntary organization composed of the many Federal agencies engaged in the acquisition of real estate for public uses. The “Yellow Book” is published by the Appraisal Institute in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Justice and is available in hard copy or on the Department of Justice's internet Web site at
http://www.usdoj.gov/enrd/land-ack/.
§ 102-73.285
[Reserved]
§ 102-73.290
Are there any prohibitions when a Federal agency pays “just compensation” to a tenant?
Yes, Federal agencies must not—
(a) Duplicate any payment to the tenant otherwise authorized by law; and
(b) Pay a tenant unless the landowner disclaims all interests in the tenant's improvements. In consideration for any such payment, the tenant must assign, transfer, and release to the Federal agency all of its right, title, and interest in the improvements. The tenant may reject such payment under this subpart and obtain payment for its property interests according to other sections of applicable law.

# Expenses Incidental to Property Transfer
§ 102-73.295
What property transfer expenses must Federal agencies cover when acquiring real property?
Federal agencies must—
(a) Reimburse property owners for all reasonable expenses actually incurred for recording fees, transfer taxes, documentary stamps, evidence of title, boundary surveys, legal descriptions of the real property, and similar expenses needed to convey the property to the Federal Government;
(b) Reimburse property owners for all reasonable expenses actually incurred for penalty costs and other charges to prepay any existing, recorded mortgage that a property owner entered into in good faith and that encumbers the real property;
(c) Reimburse property owners for all reasonable expenses actually incurred for the prorated part of any prepaid real property taxes that cover the period after the Federal Government gets title to the property or effective possession of it, whichever is earlier; and
(d) Whenever possible, directly pay the costs identified in this section, so property owners will not have to pay them and then seek reimbursement from the Government.

# Litigation Expenses
§ 102-73.300
Are Federal agencies required to pay for litigation expenses incurred by a property owner because of a condemnation proceeding?
Federal agencies must pay reasonable expenses for attorneys, appraisals, and engineering fees that a property owner incurs because of a condemnation proceeding, if any of the following are true:
(a) The court's final judgment is that the Federal agency cannot acquire the real property by condemnation.
(b) The Federal agency abandons the condemnation proceeding other than under an agreed-on settlement.
(c) The court renders a judgment in the property owner's favor in an inverse condemnation proceeding or the Federal agency agrees to settle such proceeding.

# Relocation Assistance Policy
§ 102-73.305
What relocation assistance policy must Federal agencies follow?
Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, must provide appropriate relocation assistance under the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4651-4655, to eligible owners and tenants of property purchased for use by Federal agencies in accordance with the implementing regulations found in 49 CFR part 24. Appropriate relocation assistance means that the Federal agency must pay the displaced person for actual—
(a) Reasonable moving expenses (in moving himself, his family, and business);
(b) Direct losses of tangible personal property as a result of moving or discontinuing a business;
(c) Reasonable expenses in searching for a replacement business or farm; and
(d) Reasonable expenses necessary to reestablish a displaced farm, nonprofit organization, or small business at its new site, but not to exceed $10,000.

# Subpart D—Secure Federal Leases From Espionage and Suspicious Entanglements Act

# Source:
88 FR 14065, Mar. 7, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102-73.310
What are the governing authorities for this subpart?
The governing authorities are the Secure Federal Leases from Espionage and Suspicious Entanglements Act, Public Law 116-276, 134 Stat. 3362 (2020) (the “Secure Federal LEASEs Act”), and 40 U.S.C. 121(c).
§ 102-73.315
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Beneficial owner
means:
(1) With respect to a covered entity, an individual who, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, or otherwise—
(i) Exercises substantial control over the covered entity; or
(ii) Owns or controls not less than 25 percent of the ownership interests of the covered entity.
(2) This definition is based on the Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network's Beneficial Ownership Information Reporting Requirements at 31 CFR part 1010.
Control
means, with respect to a covered entity:
(1) Having the authority or ability to determine how a covered entity is used; or
(2) Having some decision-making power for the use of a covered entity.
Covered entity,
as defined by the Secure Federal LEASEs Act, means:
(1) A person, corporation, company, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group; or
(2) Any governmental entity or instrumentality of a government.
Federal lessee,
as defined by the Secure Federal LEASEs Act, means:
(1) The Administrator of General Services, the Architect of the Capitol, or the head of any Federal agency, other than the Department of Defense, that has independent statutory leasing authority; and
(2) Does not include the head of an element of the intelligence community.
Highest-level owner
means the entity that owns or controls an immediate owner of the offeror or lessor, or that owns or controls one or more entities that control an immediate owner of the offeror or lessor. No entity owns or exercises control of the highest-level owner.
Immediate owner
means an entity, other than the offeror or lessor, that has direct control of the offeror or lessor. Indicators of control include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following: ownership or interlocking management, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and equipment, and the common use of employees.
§ 102-73.320
Who must comply with these provisions?
Each Federal lessee and covered entity must cooperate and comply with these provisions.

# Information Collection
§ 102-73.325
What information must a covered entity provide to a Federal lessee?
Sections 3 and 4 of the Secure Federal LEASEs Act require that, before the Government may enter into a lease agreement or novation with an entity for high-security leased space (defined as Facility Security Level III, IV, or V), offerors must disclose whether the immediate owner, highest-level owner, or beneficial owner of the leased space, including an entity involved in the financing thereof, is a foreign person or entity, including the country associated with the ownership entity.
§ 102-73.330
What information must a Federal lessee provide to GSA?
Federal lessees must provide the following information when sharing their Secure Federal LEASEs Act disclosures with GSA:
(a) Name of the agency conducting the procurement;
(b) Date of disclosure;
(c) Solicitation number or Contract number (for novations);
(d) Type of Action (prior to entering a lease or prior to a novation agreement);
(e) Total number of affirmative disclosures made (note—in some instances, there may be more than one owner-of-a-type. If more than one affirmative disclosure is made, include all disclosures);
(f) As part of the total number of disclosures made, was one of the disclosures an affirmative immediate owner disclosure? If so, how many?;
(g) As part of the total number of disclosures made, was one of the disclosures an affirmative highest-level owner disclosure? If so, how many?; and
(h) As part of the total number of disclosures made, was one of the disclosures an affirmative beneficial owner disclosure? If so, how many?
§ 102-73.335
When must Federal lessees provide information to GSA?
Federal lessees must submit the required information on an annual basis.
§ 102-73.340
How must Federal lessees provide information to GSA?
Federal lessees must submit the required information to GSA by email at
SFLA@gsa.gov
.
Pt. 102-74

# PART 102-74—FACILITY MANAGEMENT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-74.5
What is the scope of this part?
102-74.10
What is the basic facility management policy?

# Subpart B—Facility Management
102-74.15
What are the facility management responsibilities of occupant agencies?

# Occupancy Services
102-74.20
What are occupancy services?
102-74.25
What responsibilities do Executive agencies have regarding occupancy services?
102-74.30
What standard in providing occupancy services must Executive agencies follow?
102-74.35
What building services must Executive agencies provide?

# Concession Services
102-74.40
What are concession services?
102-74.45
When must Federal agencies provide concession services?
102-74.50
Are Federal agencies required to give blind vendors priority in operating vending facilities?
102-74.55
Are vending facilities authorized under the Randolph-Sheppard Act operated by permit or contract?
102-74.60
Are Federal agencies required to give blind vendors priority in operating cafeterias?
102-74.65
Are cafeterias authorized under the Randolph-Sheppard Act operated by permit or contract?
102-74.70
Are commercial vendors and nonprofit organizations required to operate vending facilities by permit or contractual arrangement?
102-74.75
May Federal agencies sell tobacco products in vending machines in Government-owned and leased space?
102-74.80-102-74.95
[Reserved]

# Conservation Program
102-74.100
What are conservation programs?

# Asset Services
102-74.105
What are asset services?
102-74.110
What asset services must Executive agencies provide?
102-74.115
What standard in providing asset services must Executive agencies follow?
102-74.120
Is a prospectus required to be submitted before emergency alterations can be performed?
102-74.125
Are prospectuses required for reimbursable alteration projects?
102-74.130
When a prospectus is required, can GSA prepare a prospectus for a reimbursable alteration project?
102-74.135
Who selects construction and alteration projects that are to be performed?
102-74.140
On what basis does the Administrator select construction and alteration projects?
102-74.145
What information must a Federal agency submit to GSA after the agency has identified a need for construction or alteration of a public building?
102-74.150
Who submits prospectuses for the construction or alteration of public buildings to the Congressional committees?

# Energy Conservation
102-74.155
What energy conservation policy must Federal agencies follow in the management of facilities?
102-74.160
What actions must Federal agencies take to promote energy conservation?
102-74.165
What energy standards must Federal agencies follow for existing facilities?
102-74.170
May exceptions to the energy conservation policies in this subpart be granted?
102-74.175
Are Government-leased buildings required to conform with the policies in this subpart?
102-74.180
What illumination levels must Federal agencies maintain on Federal facilities?
102-74.185
What heating and cooling policy must Federal agencies follow in Federal facilities?
102-74.190
Are portable heaters, fans, and other such devices allowed in Government-controlled facilities?
102-74.195
What ventilation policy must Federal agencies follow?
102-74.200
What information are Federal agencies required to report to the Department of Energy (DOE)?

# Ridesharing
102-74.205
What Federal facility ridesharing policy must Executive agencies follow?
102-74.210
What steps must Executive agencies take to promote ridesharing at Federal facilities?
102-74.215-102-74.225
[Reserved]

# Occupant Emergency Program
102-74.230
Who is responsible for establishing an occupant emergency program?
102-74.235
Are occupant agencies required to cooperate with the Designated Official in the implementation of the emergency plans and the staffing of the emergency organization?
102-74.240
What are Federal agencies' occupant emergency responsibilities?
102-74.245
Who makes the decision to activate the Occupant Emergency Organization?
102-74.250
What information must the Designated Official use to make a decision to activate the Occupant Emergency Organization?
102-74.255
How must occupant evacuation or relocation be accomplished when there is immediate danger to persons or property, such as fire, explosion, or the discovery of an explosive device (not including a bomb threat)?
102-74.260
What action must the Designated Official initiate when there is advance notice of an emergency?

# Parking Facilities
102-74.265
Who must provide for the regulation and policing of parking facilities?
102-74.270
Are vehicles required to display parking permits in parking facilities?
102-74.275
May Federal agencies authorize lessors or parking management contractors to manage, regulate, and police parking facilities?
102-74.280
Are privately owned vehicles converted for propane carburetion permitted in underground parking facilities?
102-74.285
How must Federal agencies assign priority to parking spaces in controlled areas?
102-74.290
May Federal agencies allow employees to use parking spaces not required for official needs?
102-74.295
Who determines the number of employee parking spaces for each facility?
102-74.300
How must space available for employee parking be allocated among occupant agencies?
102-74.305
How must Federal agencies assign available parking spaces to their employees?
102-74.310
What measures must Federal agencies take to improve the utilization of parking facilities?

# Smoking
102-74.315
What is the smoking policy for interior space in Federal facilities?
102-74.320
Are there any exceptions to the smoking policy for interior space in Federal facilities?
102-74.325
Are designated smoking areas authorized in interior space?
102-74.330
What smoking restrictions apply to outside areas under Executive branch control?
102-74.335
Who is responsible for furnishing and installing signs concerning smoking restrictions in the building, and in and around building entrance doorways and air intake ducts?
102-74.340
Who is responsible for monitoring and controlling areas designated for smoking by an agency head and for identifying those areas with proper signage?
102-74.345
Does the smoking policy in this part apply to the judicial branch?
102-74.350
Are agencies required to meet their obligations under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Act where there is an exclusive representative for the employees prior to implementing this smoking policy?
102-74.351
If a state or local government has a smoke-free ordinance that is more strict than the smoking policy for Federal facilities, does the state or local law or Federal policy control?

# Accident and Fire Prevention
102-74.355
With what accident and fire prevention standards must Federal facilities comply?
102-74.360
What are the specific accident and fire prevention responsibilities of occupant agencies?

# Subpart C—Conduct on Federal Property

# Applicability
102-74.365
To whom does this subpart apply?

# Inspection
102-74.370
What items are subject to inspection by Federal agencies?

# Admission to Property
102-74.375
What is the policy on admitting persons to Government property?

# Preservation of Property
102-74.380
What is the policy concerning the preservation of property?

# Conformity With Signs and Directions
102-74.385
What is the policy concerning conformity with official signs and directions?

# Disturbances
102-74.390
What is the policy concerning disturbances?

# Gambling
102-74.395
What is the policy concerning gambling?

# Narcotics and Other Drugs
102-74.400
What is the policy concerning the possession and use of narcotics and other drugs?

# Alcoholic Beverages
102-74.405
What is the policy concerning the use of alcoholic beverages?

# Soliciting, Vending and Debt Collection
102-74.410
What is the policy concerning soliciting, vending and debt collection?

# Posting and Distributing Materials
102-74.415
What is the policy for posting and distributing materials?

# Photographs for News, Advertising or Commercial Purposes
102-74.420
What is the policy concerning photographs for news, advertising or commercial purposes?

# Dogs and Other Animals
102-74.425
What is the policy concerning dogs and other animals on Federal property?

# Breastfeeding
102-74.426
May a woman breastfeed her child in a Federal building or on Federal property?

# Vehicular and Pedestrian Traffic
102-74.430
What is the policy concerning vehicular and pedestrian traffic on Federal property?

# Explosives
102-74.435
What is the policy concerning explosives on Federal property?

# Weapons
102-74.440
What is the policy concerning weapons on Federal property?

# Nondiscrimination
102-74.445
What is the policy concerning discrimination on Federal property?

# Penalties
102-74.450
What are the penalties for violating any rule or regulation in this subpart?

# Impact on Other Laws or Regulations
102-74.455
What impact do the rules and regulations in this subpart have on other laws or regulations?

# Subpart D—Occasional Use of Public Buildings
102-74.460
What is the scope of this subpart?

# Application for Permit
102-74.465
Is a person or organization that wishes to use a public area required to apply for a permit from a Federal agency?
102-74.470
What information must persons or organizations submit so that Federal agencies may consider their application for a permit?
102-74.475
If an applicant proposes to use a public area to solicit funds, is the applicant required to make a certification?

# Permits
102-74.480
How many days does a Federal agency have to issue a permit following receipt of a completed application?
102-74.485
Is there any limitation on the length of time of a permit?
102-74.490
What if more than one permit is requested for the same area and time?
102-74.495
If a permit involves demonstrations or activities that may lead to civil disturbances, what action must a Federal agency take before approving such a permit application?

# Disapproval of Applications or Cancellation of Permits
102-74.500
Can Federal agencies disapprove permit applications or cancel issued permits?
102-74.505
What action must Federal agencies take after disapproving an application or canceling an issued permit?

# Appeals
102-74.510
How may the disapproval of a permit application or cancellation of an issued permit be appealed?
102-74.515
Will the affected person or organization and the Federal agency buildings manager have an opportunity to state their positions on the issues?
102-74.520
How much time does the Regional Officer have to affirm or reverse the Federal agency buildings manager's decision after receiving the notification of appeal from the affected person or organization?

# Schedule of Use
102-74.525
May Federal agencies reserve time periods for the use of public areas for official Government business or for maintenance, repair, and construction?

# Hours of Use
102-74.530
When may public areas be used?

# Services and Costs
102-74.535
What items may Federal agencies provide to permittees free of charge?
102-74.540
What are the items for which permittees must reimburse Federal agencies?
102-74.545
May permittees make alterations to the public areas?
102-74.550
What items are permittees responsible for furnishing?

# Conduct
102-74.555
What rules of conduct must all permittees observe while on Federal property?

# Non-affiliation With the Government
102-74.560
May Federal agencies advise the public of the presence of any permittees and their non-affiliation with the Federal Government?

# Subpart E—Installing, Repairing, and Replacing Sidewalks
102-74.565
What is the scope of this subpart?
102-74.570
Are State and local governments required to fund the cost of installing, repairing, and replacing sidewalks?
102-74.575
How do Federal agencies arrange for work on sidewalks?
102-74.580
Who decides when to replace a sidewalk?

# Subpart F—Telework
102-74.585
What Federal facility telework policy must Executive agencies follow?
102-74.590
What steps must agencies take to implement these laws and policies?
102-74.595
How can agencies obtain guidance, assistance, and oversight regarding alternative workplace arrangements from GSA?
102-74.600
Should Federal agencies utilize telework centers?
Appendix to Part 102-74—Rules and Regulations Governing Conduct on Federal Property

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c); E.O. 12191, 45 FR 7997, 3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p. 138; E.O. 14025, 86 FR 22829.

# Source:
70 FR 67798, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-74.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including the GSA's Public Buildings
Service (PBS), operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services.
§ 102-74.10
What is the basic facility management policy?
Executive agencies must manage, operate and maintain Government-owned and leased buildings in a manner that provides for quality space and services consistent with their operational needs and accomplishes overall Government objectives. The management, operation and maintenance of buildings and building systems must—
(a) Be cost effective and energy efficient;
(b) Be adequate to meet the agencies' missions;
(c) Meet nationally recognized standards; and
(d) Be at an appropriate level to maintain and preserve the physical plant assets, consistent with available funding.

# Subpart B—Facility Management
§ 102-74.15
What are the facility management responsibilities of occupant agencies?
Occupants of facilities under the custody and control of Federal agencies must—
(a) Cooperate to the fullest extent with all pertinent facility procedures and regulations;
(b) Promptly report all crimes and suspicious circumstances occurring on Federally controlled property first to the regional Federal Protective Service, and as appropriate, the local responding law enforcement authority;
(c) Provide training to employees regarding protection and responses to emergency situations; and
(d) Make recommendations for improving the effectiveness of protection in Federal facilities.

# Occupancy Services
§ 102-74.20
What are occupancy services?
Occupancy services are—
(a) Building services (see § 102-74.35);
(b) Concession services (see § 102-74.40); and
(c) Conservation programs (see § 102-74.100).
§ 102-74.25
What responsibilities do Executive agencies have regarding occupancy services?
Executive agencies, upon approval from GSA, must manage, administer and enforce the requirements of agreements (such as Memoranda of Understanding) and contracts that provide for the delivery of occupancy services.
§ 102-74.30
What standard in providing occupancy services must Executive agencies follow?
Executive agencies must provide occupancy services that substantially conform to nationally recognized standards. As needed, Executive agencies may adopt other standards for buildings and services in Federally controlled facilities to conform to statutory requirements and to implement cost-reduction efforts.
§ 102-74.35
What building services must Executive agencies provide?
Executive agencies, upon approval from GSA, must provide—
(a) Building services such as custodial, solid waste management (including recycling), heating and cooling, landscaping and grounds maintenance, tenant alterations, minor repairs, building maintenance, integrated pest management, signage, parking, and snow removal, at appropriate levels to support Federal agency missions; and
(b) Arrangements for raising and lowering the United States flags at appropriate times. In addition, agencies must display P.O.W. and M.I.A. flags at locations specified in 36 U.S.C. 902 on P.O.W./M.I.A. flag display days.

# Concession Services
§ 102-74.40
What are concession services?
Concession services are any food or snack services provided by a Randolph-Sheppard Act vendor, commercial contractor or nonprofit organization (see definition in § 102-71.20 of this chapter), in vending facilities such as—
(a) Vending machines;
(b) Sundry facilities;
(c) Prepackaged facilities;
(d) Snack bars; and
(e) Cafeterias.
§ 102-74.45
When must Federal agencies provide concession services?
Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, must provide concession services where building population supports such services and when the availability of existing commercial services is insufficient to meet Federal agency needs. Prior to establishing concessions, Federal agencies must ensure that—
(a) The proposed concession will be established and operated in conformance with applicable policies, safety, health and sanitation codes, laws, regulations, etc., and will not contravene the terms of any lease or other contractual arrangement; and
(b) Sufficient funds are legally available to cover all costs for which the Government may be responsible.
§ 102-74.50
Are Federal agencies required to give blind vendors priority in operating vending facilities?
With certain exceptions, the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107
et seq.
) requires that blind persons licensed by a State licensing agency under the provisions of the Randolph-Sheppard Act be authorized to operate vending facilities on Federal property, including leased buildings. The Department of Education (ED) is responsible for the administration of the Randolph-Sheppard Act as set forth at 34 CFR part 395. The ED designates individual State licensing agencies with program administration responsibility. The Randolph-Sheppard Act and its implementing regulations require that Federal property managers give priority to and notify the State licensing agencies in writing of any opportunity.
§ 102-74.55
Are vending facilities authorized under the Randolph-Sheppard Act operated by permit or contract?
Vending facilities are authorized by permit. As set forth in 34 CFR part 395, the Federal property manager approves and signs State licensing agency permits that authorize States to license blind vendors to operate vending facilities (including vending machines) on Federal property.
§ 102-74.60
Are Federal agencies required to give blind vendors priority in operating cafeterias?
Yes. Federal agencies are required to give Randolph-Sheppard vendors priority in the operation of cafeterias when the State licensing agency is in the competitive range as set forth at 34 CFR part 395.
§ 102-74.65
Are cafeterias authorized under the Randolph-Sheppard Act operated by permit or contract?
They are operated by contract. As set forth at 34 CFR part 395, the Federal property manager contracts with the State licensing agency to license blind vendors to operate cafeterias on Federal property.
§ 102-74.70
Are commercial vendors and nonprofit organizations required to operate vending facilities by permit or contractual arrangement?
Commercial vendors and nonprofit organizations must operate vending facilities, including cafeterias, under a contractual arrangement with Federal agencies.
§ 102-74.75
May Federal agencies sell tobacco products in vending machines in Government-owned and leased space?
No. Section 636 of Public Law 104-52 prohibits the sale of tobacco products in vending machines in Government-owned and leased space. The Administrator of GSA or the head of an Agency may designate areas not subject to the prohibition, if minors are prohibited and reports are made to the appropriate committees of Congress.
§§ 102-74.80—102-74.95
[Reserved]

# Conservation Programs
§ 102-74.100
What are conservation programs?
Conservation programs are programs that improve energy and water efficiency and promote the use of solar and other renewable energy. These programs must promote and maintain an effective source reduction activity (reducing consumption of resources such as energy, water, and paper), resource recovery activity (obtaining materials
from the waste stream that can be recycled into new products), and reuse activity (reusing same product before disposition, such as reusing unneeded memos for scratch paper).

# Asset Services
§ 102-74.105
What are asset services?
Asset services include repairs (other than those minor repairs identified in § 102-74.35(a)), alterations and modernizations for real property assets. Typically, these are the types of repairs and alterations necessary to preserve or enhance the value of the real property asset.
§ 102-74.110
What asset services must Executive agencies provide?
Executive agencies, upon approval from GSA, must provide asset services such as repairs (in addition to those minor repairs identified in § 102-74.35(a)), alterations, and modernizations for real property assets. For repairs and alterations projects for which the estimated cost exceeds the prospectus threshold, Federal agencies must follow the prospectus submission and approval policy identified in this part and part 102-73 of this chapter.
§ 102-74.115
What standard in providing asset services must Executive agencies follow?
Executive agencies must provide asset services that maintain continuity of Government operations, continue efficient building operations, extend the useful life of buildings and related building systems, and provide a quality workplace environment that enhances employee productivity.
§ 102-74.120
Is a prospectus required to be submitted before emergency alterations can be performed?
No. A prospectus does not need to be submitted before emergency alterations are performed, but GSA must submit a prospectus as soon as possible after the emergency. Federal agencies must immediately alter a building if the alteration protects people, buildings, or equipment, saves lives, and/or avoids further property damage. Federal agencies can take these actions in an emergency before GSA submits a prospectus on the alterations to the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
§ 102-74.125
Are prospectuses required for reimbursable alteration projects?
A project that is to be financed in whole or in part from funds appropriated to the requesting agency may be performed without a prospectus if—
(a) Payment is made from agency appropriations that are not subject to 40 U.S.C. 3307; and
(b) GSA's portion of the cost, if any, does not exceed the prospectus threshold.
§ 102-74.130
When a prospectus is required, can GSA prepare a prospectus for a reimbursable alteration project?
Yes, if requested by a Federal agency, GSA will prepare a prospectus for a reimbursable alteration project.
§ 102-74.135
Who selects construction and alteration projects that are to be performed?
The Administrator of General Services selects construction and alteration projects to be performed.
§ 102-74.140
On what basis does the Administrator select construction and alteration projects?
The Administrator selects projects based on a continuing investigation and survey of the public building needs of the Federal Government. These projects must be equitably distributed throughout the United States, with due consideration given to each project's comparative urgency.
§ 102-74.145
What information must a Federal agency submit to GSA after the agency has identified a need for construction or alteration of a public building?
Federal agencies identifying a need for construction or alteration of a public building must provide information, such as a description of the work, location, estimated maximum cost, and justification to the Administrator of General Services.
§ 102-74.150
Who submits prospectuses for the construction or alteration of public buildings to the Congressional committees?
The Administrator of General Services must submit prospectuses for public building construction or alteration projects to the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure for approval.

# Energy Conservation
§ 102-74.155
What energy conservation policy must Federal agencies follow in the management of facilities?
Federal agencies must—
(a) Comply with the energy conservation guidelines in 10 CFR part 436 (Federal Energy Management and Planning Programs); and
(b) Observe the energy conservation policies cited in this part.
§ 102-74.160
What actions must Federal agencies take to promote energy conservation?
Federal agencies must—
(a) Turn off lights and equipment when not needed;
(b) Not block or impede ventilation; and
(c) Keep windows and other building accesses closed during the heating and cooling seasons.
§ 102-74.165
What energy standards must Federal agencies follow for existing facilities?
Existing Federal facilities must meet the energy standards prescribed by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers and the Illuminating Engineering Society of North American in ASHRAE/IES Standard 90A-1980, as amended by the Department of Energy. Federal agencies must apply these energy standards where they can be achieved through life cycle, cost effective actions.
§ 102-74.170
May exceptions to the energy conservation policies in this subpart be granted?
Yes, the Federal agency buildings manager may grant exceptions to the foregoing policies in this subpart to enable agencies to accomplish their missions more effectively and efficiently.
§ 102-74.175
Are Government-leased buildings required to conform with the policies in this subpart?
Yes, all new lease contracts must be in conformance with the policies prescribed in this subpart. Federal agencies must administer existing lease contracts in accordance with these policies to the maximum extent feasible.
§ 102-74.180
What illumination levels must Federal agencies maintain on Federal facilities?
Except where special circumstances exist, Federal agencies must maintain illumination levels at—
(a) 50 foot-candles at work station surfaces, measured at a height of 30 inches above floor level, during working hours (for visually difficult or critical tasks, additional lighting may be authorized by the Federal agency buildings manager);
(b) 30 foot-candles in work areas during working hours, measured at 30 inches above floor level;
(c) 10 foot-candles, but not less than 1 foot-candle, in non-work areas, during working hours (normally this will require levels of 5 foot-candles at elevator boarding areas, minimum of 1 foot-candle at the middle of corridors and stairwells as measured at the walking surface, 1 foot-candle at the middle of corridors and stairwells as measured at the walking surface, and 10 foot-candles in storage areas); and
(d) Levels essential for safety and security purposes, including exit signs and exterior lights.
§ 102-74.185
What heating and cooling policy must Federal agencies follow in Federal facilities?
Within the limitations of the building systems, Federal agencies must—
(a) Operate heating and cooling systems in the most overall energy efficient and economical manner;
(b) Maintain temperatures to maximize customer satisfaction by conforming to local commercial equivalent temperature levels and operating practices;
(c) Set heating temperatures no higher than 55 degrees Fahrenheit during non-working hours;
(d) Not provide air-conditioning during non-working hours, except as necessary to return space temperatures to a suitable level for the beginning of working hours;
(e) Not permit reheating, humidification and simultaneous heating and cooling; and
(f) Operate building systems as necessary during extreme weather conditions to protect the physical condition of the building.
§ 102-74.190
Are portable heaters, fans and other such devices allowed in Government-controlled facilities?
Federal agencies are prohibited from operating portable heaters, fans, and other such devices in Government-controlled facilities unless authorized by the Federal agency buildings manager.
§ 102-74.195
What ventilation policy must Federal agencies follow?
During working hours in periods of heating and cooling, Federal agencies must provide ventilation in accordance with ASHRAE Standard 62, Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality, where physically practical. Where not physically practical, Federal agencies must provide the maximum allowable amount of ventilation during periods of heating and cooling and pursue opportunities to increase ventilation up to current standards. ASHRAE Standard 62 is available from ASHRAE Publications Sales, 1791 Tullie Circle NE, Atlanta, GA 30329-2305.
§ 102-74.200
What information are Federal agencies required to report to the Department of Energy (DOE)?
Federal agencies, upon approval of GSA, must report to the DOE the energy consumption in buildings, facilities, vehicles, and equipment within 45 calendar days after the end of each quarter as specified in the DOE Federal Energy Usage Report DOE F 6200.2 Instructions.

# Ridesharing
§ 102-74.205
What Federal facility ridesharing policy must Executive agencies follow?
(a) In accordance with Executive Order 12191, “Federal Facility Ridesharing Program” (3 CFR, 1980 Comp., p. 138), Executive agencies must actively promote the use of ridesharing (carpools, vanpools, privately leased buses, public transportation, and other multi-occupancy modes of travel) by personnel working at Federal facilities to conserve energy, reduce congestion, improve air quality, and provide an economical way for Federal employees to commute to work.
(b) In accordance with the Federal Employees Clean Air Incentives Act (Public Law 103-172), the Federal Government is required to take steps to improve the air quality, and to reduce traffic congestion by providing for the establishment of programs that encourage Federal employees to commute to work by means other than single-occupancy motor vehicles.
(c) In accordance with the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105-178), employers, including the Federal Government, are to offer employees transportation fringe benefits.
§ 102-74.210
What steps must Executive agencies take to promote ridesharing at Federal facilities?
(a) Under Executive Order 12191, “Federal Facility Ridesharing Program,” agencies shall—
(1) Establish an annual ridesharing goal for each facility; and
(2) Cooperate with State and local ridesharing agencies where such agencies exist.
(b) Under the Federal Employees Clean Air Incentives Act (Public Law 103-172), agencies shall—
(1) Issue transit passes or similar vouchers to exchange for transit passes;
(2) Furnish space, facilities, and services to bicyclists;
(3) Provide non-monetary incentives as provided by other provisions of law or other authority; and
(4) Submit biennially to GSA (as directed in House of Representatives Report 103-356, dated November 10, 1993) a report that covers—
(i) Agency programs offered under Public law 103-172;
(ii) Description of each program;
(iii) Extent of employee participation in, and costs to the Government associated with, each program;
(iv) Assessment of environmental or other benefits realized from these programs; and
(v) Other matters that may be appropriate under Public Law 103-172.
(c) In accordance with the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, agencies may (in lieu of or in combination with other commuter benefits) provide fringe benefits to qualified commuters, at no cost, by giving them a monthly pretax payroll deduction to support and encourage the use of mass transportation systems.
§§ 102-74.215—102-74.225
[Reserved]

# Occupant Emergency Program
§ 102-74.230
Who is responsible for establishing an occupant emergency program?
The Designated Official (as defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter) is responsible for developing, implementing and maintaining an Occupant Emergency Plan (as defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter). The Designated Official's responsibilities include establishing, staffing and training an Occupant Emergency Organization with agency employees. Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, must assist in the establishment and maintenance of such plans and organizations.
§ 102-74.235
Are occupant agencies required to cooperate with the Designated Official in the implementation of the emergency plans and the staffing of the emergency organization?
Yes, all occupant agencies of a facility must fully cooperate with the Designated Official in the implementation of the emergency plans and the staffing of the emergency organization.
§ 102-74.240
What are Federal agencies' occupant emergency responsibilities?
Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, must—
(a) Provide emergency program policy guidance;
(b) Review plans and organizations annually;
(c) Assist in training of personnel;
(d) Otherwise provide for the proper administration of Occupant Emergency Programs (as defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter);
(e) Solicit the assistance of the lessor in the establishment and implementation of plans in leased space; and
(f) Assist the Occupant Emergency Organization (as defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter) by providing technical personnel qualified in the operation of utility systems and protective equipment.
§ 102-74.245
Who makes the decision to activate the Occupant Emergency Organization?
The decision to activate the Occupant Emergency Organization must be made by the Designated Official, or by the designated alternate official. After normal duty hours, the senior Federal official present must represent the Designated Official or his/her alternates and must initiate action to cope with emergencies in accordance with the plans.
§ 102-74.250
What information must the Designated Official use to make a decision to activate the Occupant Emergency Organization?
The Designated Official must make a decision to activate the Occupant Emergency Organization based upon the best available information, including—
(a) An understanding of local tensions;
(b) The sensitivity of target agency(ies);
(c) Previous experience with similar situations;
(d) Advice from the Federal agency buildings manager;
(e) Advice from the appropriate Federal law enforcement official; and
(f) Advice from Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies.
§ 102-74.255
How must occupant evacuation or relocation be accomplished when there is immediate danger to persons or property, such as fire, explosion or the discovery of an explosive device (not including a bomb threat)?
The Designated Official must initiate action to evacuate or relocate occupants in accordance with the plan by sounding the fire alarm system or by other appropriate means when there is immediate danger to persons or property, such as fire, explosion or the discovery of an explosive device (not including a bomb threat).
§ 102-74.260
What action must the Designated Official initiate when there is advance notice of an emergency?
The Designated Official must initiate appropriate action according to the plan when there is advance notice of an emergency.

# Parking Facilities
§ 102-74.265
Who must provide for the regulation and policing of parking facilities?
Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, must provide for any necessary regulation and policing of parking facilities, which may include—
(a) The issuance of traffic rules and regulations;
(b) The installation of signs and markings for traffic control (Signs and markings must conform with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices published by the Department of Transportation);
(c) The issuance of citations for parking violations; and
(d) The immobilization or removal of illegally parked vehicles.
§ 102-74.270
Are vehicles required to display parking permits in parking facilities?
When the use of parking space is controlled as in § 102-74.265, all privately owned vehicles other than those authorized to use designated visitor or service areas must display a parking permit. This requirement may be waived in parking facilities where the number of available spaces regularly exceeds the demand for such spaces.
§ 102-74.275
May Federal agencies authorize lessors or parking management contractors to manage, regulate and police parking facilities?
Yes, Federal agencies, upon approval from GSA, may authorize lessors or parking management contractors to manage, regulate and police parking facilities.
§ 102-74.280
Are privately owned vehicles converted for propane carburetion permitted in underground parking facilities?
Federal agencies must not permit privately owned vehicles converted for propane carburetion to enter underground parking facilities unless the owner provides to the occupant agency and the Federal agency buildings manager the installer's certification that the installation methods and equipment comply with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard No. 58.
§ 102-74.285
How must Federal agencies assign priority to parking spaces in controlled areas?
Federal agencies must reserve official parking spaces, in the following order of priority, for—
(a) Official postal vehicles at buildings containing the U.S. Postal Service's mailing operations;
(b) Federally owned vehicles used to apprehend criminals, fight fires and handle other emergencies;
(c) Private vehicles owned by Members of Congress (but not their staffs);
(d) Private vehicles owned by Federal judges (appointed under Article III of the Constitution), which may be parked in those spaces assigned for the use of the Court, with priority for them set by the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts;
(e) Other Federally owned and leased vehicles, including those in motor pools or assigned for general use;
(f) Service vehicles, vehicles used in child care center operations, and vehicles of patrons and visitors (Federal agencies must allocate parking for disabled visitors whenever an agency's mission requires visitor parking); and
(g) Private vehicles owned by employees, using spaces not needed for official business.
However, in major metropolitan areas, Federal agencies may determine that allocations by zone would make parking more efficient or equitable, taking into account the priority for official parking set forth in this section.
§ 102-74.290
May Federal agencies allow employees to use parking spaces not required for official needs?
Yes, Federal agencies may allow employees to use parking spaces not required for official needs.
§ 102-74.295
Who determines the number of employee parking spaces for each facility?
The Federal agency buildings manager must determine the total number of spaces available for employee parking. Typically, Federal agencies must make a separate determination for each parking facility. However, in major metropolitan areas, Federal agencies may determine that allocations by zone would make parking more efficient or more equitably available.
§ 102-74.300
How must space available for employee parking be allocated among occupant agencies?
The Federal agency buildings manager must allocate space available for employee parking among occupant agencies on an equitable basis, such as by allocating such parking in proportion to each agency's share of building space, office space or total employee population, as appropriate. In certain cases, Federal agencies may allow a third party, such as a board composed of representatives of agencies sharing space, to determine proper parking allocations among the occupant agencies.
§ 102-74.305
How must Federal agencies assign available parking spaces to their employees?
Federal agencies must assign available parking spaces to their employees using the following order of priority:
(a) Severely disabled employees (see definition in § 102-71.20 of this chapter).
(b) Executive personnel and persons who work unusual hours.
(c) Vanpool/carpool vehicles.
(d) Privately owned vehicles of occupant agency employees that are regularly used for Government business at least 12 days per month and that qualify for reimbursement of mileage and travel expenses under Government travel regulations.
(e) Other privately owned vehicles of employees, on a space-available basis. (In locations where parking allocations are made on a zonal basis, GSA and affected agencies may cooperate to issue additional rules, as appropriate.)
§ 102-74.310
What measures must Federal agencies take to improve the utilization of parking facilities?
Federal agencies must take all feasible measures to improve the utilization of parking facilities, including—
(a) The conducting of surveys and studies;
(b) The periodic review of parking space allocations;
(c) The dissemination of parking information to occupant agencies;
(d) The implementation of parking incentives that promote ridesharing;
(e) The use of stack parking practices, where appropriate; and
(f) The employment of parking management contractors and concessionaires, where appropriate.

# Smoking
§ 102-74.315
What is the smoking policy for interior space in Federal facilities?
Pursuant to Executive Order 13058, “Protecting Federal Employees and the Public From Exposure to Tobacco Smoke in the Federal Workplace” (3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 216), it is the policy of the executive branch to establish a smoke-free environment for Federal employees and members of the public visiting or using Federal facilities. The smoking of tobacco products is prohibited in all interior space owned, rented or leased by the executive branch of the Federal Government.
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 102-74.320
Are there any exceptions to the smoking policy for interior space in Federal facilities?
Yes, the smoking policy does not apply in—
(a) Any residential accommodation for persons voluntarily or involuntarily residing, on a temporary or long-term basis, in a building owned, leased or rented by the Federal Government;
(b) Portions of Federally owned buildings leased, rented or otherwise provided in their entirety to non-Federal parties;
(c) Places of employment in the private sector or in other non-Federal Governmental units that serve as the permanent or intermittent duty station of one or more Federal employees; and
(d) Instances where an agency head establishes limited and narrow exceptions that are necessary to accomplish agency missions. Such exceptions must be in writing, approved by the agency head and, to the fullest extent possible, provide protection of nonsmokers from exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. Authority to establish such exceptions may not be delegated.
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 102-74.325
Are designated smoking areas authorized in interior space?
No, unless specifically established by an agency head as provided by § 102-74.320(d). A previous exception for designated smoking areas is being eliminated. All designated interior smoking areas will be closed effective June 19, 2009. This six-month phase-in period is designed to establish a fixed but reasonable time for implementing this policy change. This phase-in period will provide agencies with time to comply with their obligations under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. Ch. 71, Labor-Management Relations, in those circumstances where there is an exclusive union representative for the employees.
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 102-74.330
What smoking restrictions apply to outside areas under Executive branch control?
Effective June 19, 2009, smoking is prohibited in courtyards and within twenty-five (25) feet of doorways and air intake ducts on outdoor space under the jurisdiction, custody or control of GSA. This six-month phase-in period is designed to establish a fixed but reasonable time for implementing this policy change. This phase-in period will provide agencies with time to comply with their obligations under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. Ch. 71, Labor-Management Relations, in those circumstances where there is an exclusive union representative for the employees.
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 102-74.335
Who is responsible for furnishing and installing signs concerning smoking restrictions in the building, and in and around building entrance doorways and air intake ducts?
Federal agency building managers are responsible for furnishing and installing suitable, uniform signs in the building, and in and around building entrance doorways and air intake ducts, reading “No Smoking,” “No Smoking Except in Designated Areas,” “No Smoking Within 25 Feet of Doorway,” or “No Smoking Within 25 Feet of Air Duct,” as applicable.
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 102-74.340
Who is responsible for monitoring and controlling areas designated for smoking by an agency head and for identifying those areas with proper signage?
Agency heads are responsible for monitoring and controlling areas designated by them under § 102-74.320(d) for smoking and identifying these areas with proper signage. Suitable, uniform signs reading “Designated Smoking Area” must be furnished and installed by the occupant agency.
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 102-74.345
Does the smoking policy in this part apply to the judicial branch?
This smoking policy applies to the judicial branch when it occupies space in buildings controlled by the executive branch. Furthermore, the Federal Chief Judge in a local jurisdiction may be deemed to be comparable to an
agency head and may establish exceptions for Federal jurors and others as provided in § 102-74.320(d).
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 102-74.350
Are agencies required to meet their obligations under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Act where there is an exclusive representative for the employees prior to implementing this smoking policy?
Yes. Where there is an exclusive representative for the employees, Federal agencies must meet their obligations under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Act, 5 U.S.C. Ch. 71, Labor-Management Relations, prior to implementing this section. In all other cases, agencies may consult directly with employees.
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]
§ 102-74.351
If a state or local government has a smoke-free ordinance that is more strict than the smoking policy for Federal facilities, does the state or local law or Federal policy control?
The answer depends on whether the facility is Federally owned or privately owned. If the facility is Federally owned, then Federal preemption principles apply and the Federal policy controls. If the facility is privately owned, then Federal tenants are subject to the provisions of the state or local ordinance, even in the Federally leased space, if the state or local restrictions are more stringent than the Federal policy.
[73 FR 77518, Dec. 19, 2008]

# Accident and Fire Prevention
§ 102-74.355
With what accident and fire prevention standards must Federal facilities comply?
To the maximum extent feasible, Federal agencies must manage facilities in accordance with the accident and fire prevention requirements identified in § 102-80.80 of this chapter.
§ 102-74.360
What are the specific accident and fire prevention responsibilities of occupant agencies?
Each occupant agency must—
(a) Participate in at least one fire drill per year;
(b) Maintain a neat and orderly facility to minimize the risk of accidental injuries and fires;
(c) Keep all exits, accesses to exits and accesses to emergency equipment clear at all times;
(d) Not bring hazardous, explosive or combustible materials into buildings unless authorized by appropriate agency officials and by GSA and unless protective arrangements determined necessary by GSA have been provided;
(e) Use only draperies, curtains or other hanging materials that are made of non-combustible or flame-resistant fabric;
(f) Use only freestanding partitions and space dividers that are limited combustible, and fabric coverings that are flame resistant;
(g) Cooperate with GSA to develop and maintain fire prevention programs that provide the maximum safety for the occupants;
(h) Train employees to use protective equipment and educate employees to take appropriate fire safety precautions in their work;
(i) Keep facilities in the safest condition practicable, and conduct periodic inspections in accordance with Executive Order 12196 and 29 CFR part 1960;
(j) Immediately report accidents involving personal injury or property damage, which result from building system or maintenance deficiencies, to the Federal agency building manager; and
(k) Appoint a safety, health and fire protection liaison to represent the occupant agency with GSA.

# Subpart C—Conduct on Federal Property

# Applicability
§ 102-74.365
To whom does this subpart apply?
The rules in this subpart apply to all property under the authority of GSA and to all persons entering in or on such property. Each occupant agency shall be responsible for the observance of these rules and regulations. Federal agencies must post the notice in the
Appendix to this part at each public entrance to each Federal facility.

# Inspection
§ 102-74.370
What items are subject to inspection by Federal agencies?
Federal agencies may, at their discretion, inspect packages, briefcases and other containers in the immediate possession of visitors, employees or other persons arriving on, working at, visiting, or departing from Federal property. Federal agencies may conduct a full search of a person and the vehicle the person is driving or occupying upon his or her arrest.

# Admission to Property
§ 102-74.375
What is the policy on admitting persons to Government property?
Federal agencies must—
(a) Except as otherwise permitted, close property to the public during other than normal working hours. In those instances where a Federal agency has approved the after-normal-working-hours use of buildings or portions thereof for activities authorized by subpart D of this part, Federal agencies must not close the property (or affected portions thereof) to the public;
(b) Close property to the public during working hours only when situations require this action to provide for the orderly conduct of Government business. The designated official under the Occupant Emergency Program may make such decision only after consultation with the buildings manager and the highest ranking representative of the law enforcement organization responsible for protection of the property or the area. The designated official is defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter as the highest ranking official of the primary occupant agency, or the alternate highest ranking official or designee selected by mutual agreement by other occupant agency officials; and
(c) When property or a portion thereof is closed to the public, restrict admission to the property, or the affected portion, to authorized persons who must register upon entry to the property and must, when requested, display Government or other identifying credentials to Federal police officers or other authorized individuals when entering, leaving or while on the property. Failure to comply with any of the applicable provisions is a violation of these regulations.

# Preservation of Property
§ 102-74.380
What is the policy concerning the preservation of property?
All persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from—
(a) Improperly disposing of rubbish on property;
(b) Willfully destroying or damaging property;
(c) Stealing property;
(d) Creating any hazard on property to persons or things; or
(e) Throwing articles of any kind from or at a building or climbing upon statues, fountains or any part of the building.

# Conformity With Signs and Directions
§ 102-74.385
What is the policy concerning conformity with official signs and directions?
Persons in and on property must at all times comply with official signs of a prohibitory, regulatory or directory nature and with the lawful direction of Federal police officers and other authorized individuals.

# Disturbances
§ 102-74.390
What is the policy concerning disturbances?
All persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from loitering, exhibiting disorderly conduct or exhibiting other conduct on property that—
(a) Creates loud or unusual noise or a nuisance;
(b) Unreasonably obstructs the usual use of entrances, foyers, lobbies, corridors, offices, elevators, stairways, or parking lots;
(c) Otherwise impedes or disrupts the performance of official duties by Government employees; or
(d) Prevents the general public from obtaining the administrative services provided on the property in a timely manner.

# Gambling
§ 102-74.395
What is the policy concerning gambling?
(a) Except for the vending or exchange of chances by licensed blind operators of vending facilities for any lottery set forth in a State law and authorized by section 2(a)(5) of the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107
et seq.
), all persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from—
(1) Participating in games for money or other personal property;
(2) Operating gambling devices;
(3) Conducting a lottery or pool; or
(4) Selling or purchasing numbers tickets.
(b) This provision is not intended to prohibit prize drawings for personal property at otherwise permitted functions on Federal property, provided that the game or drawing does not constitute gambling per se. Gambling per se means a game of chance where the participant risks something of value for the chance to gain or win a prize.

# Narcotics and Other Drugs
§ 102-74.400
What is the policy concerning the possession and use of narcotics and other drugs?
Except in cases where the drug is being used as prescribed for a patient by a licensed physician, all persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from—
(a) Being under the influence, using or possessing any narcotic drugs, hallucinogens, marijuana, barbiturates, or amphetamines; or
(b) Operating a motor vehicle on the property while under the influence of alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, hallucinogens, marijuana, barbiturates, or amphetamines.

# Alcoholic Beverages
§ 102-74.405
What is the policy concerning the use of alcoholic beverages?
Except where the head of the responsible agency or his or her designee has granted an exemption in writing for the appropriate official use of alcoholic beverages, all persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from being under the influence or using alcoholic beverages. The head of the responsible agency or his or her designee must provide a copy of all exemptions granted to the buildings manager and the highest ranking representative of the law enforcement organization, or other authorized officials, responsible for the security of the property.

# Soliciting, Vending and Debt Collection
§ 102-74.410
What is the policy concerning soliciting, vending and debt collection?
All persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from soliciting alms (including money and non-monetary items) or commercial or political donations, vending merchandise of all kinds, displaying or distributing commercial advertising, or collecting private debts, except for—
(a) National or local drives for funds for welfare, health or other purposes as authorized by 5 CFR part 950, entitled “Solicitation Of Federal Civilian And Uniformed Service Personnel For Contributions To Private Voluntary Organizations,” and sponsored or approved by the occupant agencies;
(b) Concessions or personal notices posted by employees on authorized bulletin boards;
(c) Solicitation of labor organization membership or dues authorized by occupant agencies under the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-454);
(d) Labor organizations representing or seeking to represent contractors working in Federal Government facilities;
(e) Lessee, or its agents and employees, with respect to space leased for commercial, cultural, educational, or recreational use under 40 U.S.C. 581(h). Public areas of GSA-controlled property may be used for other activities in accordance with subpart D of this part;
(f) Collection of non-monetary items that are sponsored or approved by the occupant agencies; and
(g) Commercial activities sponsored by recognized Federal employee associations and on-site child care centers.
[70 FR 67798, Nov. 8, 2005, as amended at 87 FR 54170, Sept. 2, 2022]

# Posting and Distributing Materials
§ 102-74.415
What is the policy for posting and distributing materials?
All persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from—
(a) Distributing free samples of tobacco products in or around Federal buildings, as mandated by Section 636 of Public Law 104-52;
(b) Posting or affixing materials, such as pamphlets, handbills, or flyers, on bulletin boards or elsewhere on GSA-controlled property, except as authorized in § 102-74.410, or when these displays are conducted as part of authorized Government activities; and
(c) Distributing materials, such as pamphlets, handbills or flyers, unless conducted as part of authorized Government activities. This prohibition does not apply to public areas of the property as defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter. However, any person or organization proposing to distribute materials in a public area under this section must first obtain a permit from the building manager as specified in subpart D of this part. Any such person or organization must distribute materials only in accordance with the provisions of subpart D of this part. Failure to comply with those provisions is a violation of these regulations.

# Photographs for News, Advertising or Commercial Purposes
§ 102-74.420
What is the policy concerning photographs for news, advertising or commercial purposes?
Except where security regulations, rules, orders, or directives apply or a Federal court order or rule prohibits it, persons entering in or on Federal property may take photographs of—
(a) Space occupied by a tenant agency for non-commercial purposes only with the permission of the occupying agency concerned;
(b) Space occupied by a tenant agency for commercial purposes only with written permission of an authorized official of the occupying agency concerned; and
(c) Building entrances, lobbies, foyers, corridors, or auditoriums for news purposes.

# Dogs and Other Animals
§ 102-74.425
What is the policy concerning dogs and other animals on Federal property?
No person may bring dogs or other animals on Federal property for other than official purposes. However, a disabled person may bring a seeing-eye dog, a guide dog, or other animal assisting or being trained to assist that individual.

# Breastfeeding
§ 102-74.426
May a woman breastfeed her child in a Federal building or on Federal property?
Yes. Public Law 108-199, Section 629, Division F, Title VI (January 23, 2004), provides that a woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized to be present at the location.

# Vehicular and Pedestrian Traffic
§ 102-74.430
What is the policy concerning vehicular and pedestrian traffic on Federal property?
All vehicle drivers entering or while on Federal property—
(a) Must drive in a careful and safe manner at all times;
(b) Must comply with the signals and directions of Federal police officers or other authorized individuals;
(c) Must comply with all posted traffic signs;
(d) Must comply with any additional posted traffic directives approved by the GSA Regional Administrator, which will have the same force and effect as these regulations;
(e) Are prohibited from blocking entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants; and
(f) Are prohibited from parking on Federal property without a permit. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons, or parking contrary to the direction of posted signs is prohibited. Vehicles parked in violation, where warning signs are posted, are subject to removal at the owner's risk and expense. Federal agencies may take as proof that a motor vehicle was parked in violation of these
regulations or directives as prima facie evidence that the registered owner was responsible for the violation.

# Explosives
§ 102-74.435
What is the policy concerning explosives on Federal property?
No person entering or while on Federal property may carry or possess explosives, or items intended to be used to fabricate an explosive or incendiary device, either openly or concealed, except for official purposes.

# Weapons
§ 102-74.440
What is the policy concerning weapons on Federal property?
Federal law prohibits the possession of firearms or other dangerous weapons in Federal facilities and Federal court facilities by all persons not specifically authorized by 18 U.S.C. 930. Violators will be subject to fine and/or imprisonment for periods up to five (5) years.

# Nondiscrimination
§ 102-74.445
What is the policy concerning discrimination on Federal property?
Federal agencies must not discriminate by segregation or otherwise against any person or persons because of race, creed, religion, age, sex, color, disability, or national origin in furnishing or by refusing to furnish to such person or persons the use of any facility of a public nature, including all services, privileges, accommodations, and activities provided on the property.

# Penalties
§ 102-74.450
What are the penalties for violating any rule or regulation in this subpart?
A person found guilty of violating any rule or regulation in this subpart while on any property under the charge and control of GSA shall be fined under title 18 of the United States Code, imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.

# Impact on Other Laws or Regulations
§ 102-74.455
What impact do the rules and regulations in this subpart have on other laws or regulations?
No rule or regulation in this subpart may be construed to nullify any other Federal laws or regulations or any State and local laws and regulations applicable to any area in which the property is situated (40 U.S.C. 121 (c)).

# Subpart D—Occasional Use of Public Buildings
§ 102-74.460
What is the scope of this subpart?
This subpart establishes rules and regulations for the occasional use of public areas of public buildings for cultural, educational and recreational activities as provided by 40 U.S.C. 581(h)(2).

# Application for Permit
§ 102-74.465
Is a person or organization that wishes to use a public area required to apply for a permit from a Federal agency?
Yes, any person or organization wishing to use a public area must file an application for a permit from the Federal agency buildings manager.
§ 102-74.470
What information must persons or organizations submit so that Federal agencies may consider their application for a permit?
Applicants must submit the following information:
(a) Their full names, mailing addresses, and telephone numbers.
(b) The organization sponsoring the proposed activity.
(c) The individual(s) responsible for supervising the activity.
(d) Documentation showing that the applicant has authority to represent the sponsoring organization.
(e) A description of the proposed activity, including the dates and times during which it is to be conducted and the number of persons to be involved.
§ 102-74.475
If an applicant proposes to use a public area to solicit funds, is the applicant required to make a certification?
Yes, if an applicant proposes to use a public area to solicit funds, the applicant must certify, in writing, that—
(a) The applicant is a representative of and will be soliciting funds for the sole benefit of a religion or religious group; or
(b) The applicant's organization has received an official ruling of tax-exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service under 26 U.S.C. 501; or, alternatively, that an application for such a ruling is still pending.

# Permits
§ 102-74.480
How many days does a Federal agency have to issue a permit following receipt of a completed application?
Federal agencies must issue permits within 10 working days following the receipt of the completed applications, unless the permit is disapproved in accordance with § 102-74.500.
§ 102-74.485
Is there any limitation on the length of time of a permit?
Yes, a permit may not be issued for a period of time in excess of 30 calendar days, unless specifically approved by the Regional Officer (as defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter). After the expiration of a permit, Federal agencies may issue a new permit upon submission of a new application. In such a case, applicants may incorporate by reference all required information filed with the prior application.
§ 102-74.490
What if more than one permit is requested for the same area and time?
Federal agencies will issue permits on a first-come, first-served, basis when more than one permit is requested for the same area and times.
§ 102-74.495
If a permit involves demonstrations or activities that may lead to civil disturbances, what action must a Federal agency take before approving such a permit application?
Before approving a permit application, Federal agencies must coordinate with their law enforcement organization if a permit involves demonstrations or activities that may lead to civil disturbances.

# Disapproval of Applications or Cancellation of Permits
§ 102-74.500
Can Federal agencies disapprove permit applications or cancel issued permits?
Yes, Federal agencies may disapprove any permit application or cancel an issued permit if—
(a) The applicant has failed to submit all information required under §§ 102-74.470 and 102-74.475, or has falsified such information;
(b) The proposed use is a commercial activity as defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter;
(c) The proposed use interferes with access to the public area, disrupts official Government business, interferes with approved uses of the property by tenants or by the public, or damages any property;
(d) The proposed use is intended to influence or impede any pending judicial proceeding;
(e) The proposed use is obscene within the meaning of obscenity as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1461-65; or
(f) The proposed use violates the prohibition against political solicitations in 18 U.S.C. 607.
§ 102-74.505
What action must Federal agencies take after disapproving an application or canceling an issued permit?
Upon disapproving an application or canceling a permit, Federal agencies must promptly—
(a) Notify the applicant or permittee of the reasons for the action; and
(b) Inform the applicant or permittee of his/her appeal rights under § 102-74.510.

# Appeals
§ 102-74.510
How may the disapproval of a permit application or cancellation of an issued permit be appealed?
A person or organization may appeal the disapproval of an application or cancellation of an issued permit by notifying the Regional Officer (as defined
in § 102-71.20 of this chapter), in writing, of the intent to appeal within 5 calendar days of the notification of disapproval or cancellation.
§ 102-74.515
Will the affected person or organization and the Federal agency buildings manager have an opportunity to state their positions on the issues?
Yes, during the appeal process, the affected person or organization and the Federal agency buildings manager will have an opportunity to state their positions on the issues, both verbally and in writing.
§ 102-74.520
How much time does the Regional Officer have to affirm or reverse the Federal agency buildings manager's decision after receiving the notification of appeal from the affected person or organization?
The Regional Officer must affirm or reverse the Federal agency buildings manager's decision, based on the information submitted, within 10 calendar days of the date on which the Regional Officer received notification of the appeal. If the decision is not rendered within 10 days, the application will be considered to be approved or the permit validly issued. The Regional Officer will promptly notify the applicant or permittee and the buildings manager of the decision and the reasons therefor.

# Schedule of Use
§ 102-74.525
May Federal agencies reserve time periods for the use of public areas for official Government business or for maintenance, repair and construction?
Yes, Federal agencies may reserve certain time periods for use of public areas—
(a) For official Government business; or
(b) For maintenance, repair, and construction.

# Hours of Use
§ 102-74.530
When may public areas be used?
Permittees may use public areas during or after regular working hours of Federal agencies, provided that such uses will not interfere with Government business. When public areas are used by permittees after normal working hours, Federal agencies must lock, barricade or identify by signs, as appropriate, all adjacent areas not approved for such use to restrict permittees' activities to approved areas.

# Services and Costs
§ 102-74.535
What items may Federal agencies provide to permittees free of charge?
Federal agencies may provide to permittees at no cost—
(a) Space; and
(b) Services normally provided at the building in question during normal hours of building operation, such as security, cleaning, heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning. The Regional Officer must approve an applicant's request to provide its own services, such as security and cleaning, prior to permit approval.
§ 102-74.540
What are the items for which permittees must reimburse Federal agencies?
Permittees must reimburse Federal agencies for services over and above those normally provided during normal business hours. Federal agencies may provide the services free of charge if the cost is insignificant and if it is in the public interest.
§ 102-74.545
May permittees make alterations to the public areas?
Permittees must not make alterations to public areas, except with the prior written approval of the Federal agency buildings manager. Federal agencies must not approve such alterations unless the Federal agency determines that the proposed alterations to a building should be made to encourage and aid in the proposed use. Permittees making alterations must ensure the safety of users and prevent damage to property.
§ 102-74.550
What items are permittees responsible for furnishing?
Permittees are responsible for furnishing items such as tickets, audio-visual equipment, and other items that are necessary for the proposed use.

# Conduct
§ 102-74.555
What rules of conduct must all permittees observe while on Federal property?
Permittees are subject to all rules and regulations governing conduct on Federal property as set forth in subpart C of this part. In addition, a permittee must—
(a) Not misrepresent his or her identity to the public;
(b) Not conduct any activities in a misleading or fraudulent manner;
(c) Not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, religion, age, color, disability, sex, or national origin in conducting activities;
(d) Not distribute any item, nor post or otherwise affix any item, for which prior written approval under § 102-74.415 has not been obtained;
(e) Not leave leaflets or other materials unattended on the property;
(f) Not engage in activities that would interfere with the preferences afforded blind licensees under the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107); and
(g) Display identification badges while on Federal property, if engaging in the solicitation of funds as authorized by § 102-74.475. Each badge must indicate the permittee's name, address, telephone number, and organization.

# Non-affiliation With the Government
§ 102-74.560
May Federal agencies advise the public of the presence of any permittees and their non-affiliation with the Federal Government?
Yes, Federal agencies reserve the right to advise the public through signs or announcements of the presence of any permittees and of their non-affiliation with the Federal Government.

# Subpart E—Installing, Repairing, and Replacing Sidewalks
§ 102-74.565
What is the scope of this subpart?
In accordance with 40 U.S.C. 589, Federal agencies must comply with the real property policies in this subpart governing the installation, repair and replacement of sidewalks around buildings, installations, properties, or grounds under the control of Executive agencies and owned by the United States.
§ 102-74.570
Are State and local governments required to fund the cost of installing, repairing, and replacing sidewalks?
No, the Federal Government must fund the cost of installing, repairing, and replacing sidewalks. Funds appropriated to the agency for installation, repair, and maintenance, generally, must be available for expenditure to accomplish the purposes of this subpart.
§ 102-74.575
How do Federal agencies arrange for work on sidewalks?
Upon approval from GSA, Federal agencies may—
(a) Authorize the appropriate State or local government to install, repair and replace sidewalks, or arrange for this work, and reimburse them for this work; or
(b) Contract or otherwise arrange and pay directly for installing, repairing and/or replacing sidewalks.
§ 102-74.580
Who decides when to replace a sidewalk?
Federal agencies, giving due consideration to State and local standards and specifications for sidewalks, decide when to install, repair or replace a sidewalk. However, Federal agencies may prescribe other standards and specifications for sidewalks whenever necessary to achieve architectural harmony and maintain facility security.

# Subpart F—Telework
§ 102-74.585
What Federal facility telework policy must Executive agencies follow?
Executive agencies must follow these telework policies:
(a) In accordance with Section 359 of Public Law 106-346, each Executive agency must establish a policy under which eligible employees of the agency may participate in telecommuting to the maximum extent possible without diminished employee performance. Public 106-346 became effective on October 23, 2000, and required the Director of the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) to ensure the application and implementation of Section 359 to 25 percent of the Federal workforce by April 2001, and to an additional 25 percent of such workforce each year thereafter. Thus, the law provides that its requirements must be applied to 100 percent of the Federal workforce by April 2004.
(b) In accordance with 40 U.S.C. 587, when considering whether to acquire any space, quarters, buildings, or other facilities for use by employees of any Executive agency, the head of that agency shall consider whether the need for the facilities can be met using alternative workplace arrangements.
§ 102-74.590
What steps must agencies take to implement these laws and policies?
(a) As interpreted by OPM Memorandum to agencies (February 9, 2001), Public Law 106-346 instructs Federal agencies to—
(1) Review telework barriers, act to remove them, and increase actual participation;
(2) Establish eligibility criteria; and
(3) Subject to any applicable agency policies or bargaining obligations, allow employees who meet the criteria and want to participate the opportunity if they are satisfactory performers.
(b) 40 U.S.C. 587 requires agencies considering the acquisition of facilities for use by Federal employees to consider whether the facility need can be met using alternative workplace arrangements, such as telecommuting, hoteling, virtual offices, and other distributive work arrangements. If the agency needs assistance in this investigation and/or subsequent application of alternative workplace arrangements, GSA will provide guidance, assistance, and oversight, as needed, regarding establishment and operation of alternative workplace arrangements.
(c) Agencies evaluating alternative workplace arrangements should also make these evaluations in coordination with Integrated Workplace policies and strategies. See § 102-79.110.
§ 102-74.595
How can agencies obtain guidance, assistance, and oversight regarding alternative workplace arrangements from GSA?
Agencies may request assistance from the GSA/PBS regional office responsible for providing space in the geographic area under consideration.
§ 102-74.600
Should Federal agencies utilize telework centers?
Yes. In accordance with Public Law 107-217 (August 21, 2002), each of the following departments and agencies, in each fiscal year, must make at least $50,000 available from amounts provided for salaries and expenses for carrying out a flexiplace work telecommuting program (i.e., to pay telework center program user fees):
(a) Department of Agriculture.
(b) Department of Commerce.
(c) Department of Defense.
(d) Department of Education.
(e) Department of Energy.
(f) Department of Health and Human Services.
(g) Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(h) Department of the Interior.
(i) Department of Justice.
(j) Department of Labor.
(k) Department of State.
(l) Department of Transportation.
(m) Department of the Treasury.
(n) Department of Veterans Affairs.
(o) Environmental Protection Agency.
(p) General Services Administration.
(q) Office of Personnel Management.
(r) Small Business Administration.
(s) Social Security Administration.
(t) United States Postal Service.
Pt. 102-74, App.

# Appendix to Part 102-74—Rules and Regulations Governing Conduct on Federal Property

# Federal Management Regulations

# Title 41, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 102-74, Subpart C
Applicability (41 CFR 102-74.365).
The rules in this subpart apply to all property under the authority of the U.S. General Services Administration and to all persons entering in or on such property. Each occupant agency shall be responsible for the observance of these rules and regulations. Federal agencies must post the notice in the Appendix to part
102-74 at each public entrance to each Federal facility.
Inspection (41 CFR 102-74.370).
Federal agencies may, at their discretion, inspect packages, briefcases and other containers in the immediate possession of visitors, employees or other persons arriving on, working at, visiting, or departing from Federal property. Federal agencies may conduct a full search of a person and the vehicle the person is driving or occupying upon his or her arrest.
Admission to Property (41 CFR 102-74.375).
Federal agencies must—
(a) Except as otherwise permitted, close property to the public during other than normal working hours. In those instances where a Federal agency has approved the after-normal-working-hours use of buildings or portions thereof for activities authorized by subpart D of this part, Federal agencies must not close the property (or affected portions thereof) to the public;
(b) Close property to the public during working hours only when situations require this action to provide for the orderly conduct of Government business. The designated official under the Occupant Emergency Program may make such decision only after consultation with the buildings manager and the highest ranking representative of the law enforcement organization responsible for protection of the property or the area. The designated official is defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter as the highest ranking official of the primary occupant agency, or the alternate highest ranking official or designee selected by mutual agreement by other occupant agency officials; and
(c) When property or a portion thereof is closed to the public, restrict admission to the property, or the affected portion, to authorized persons who must register upon entry to the property and must, when requested, display Government or other identifying credentials to Federal police officers or other authorized individuals when entering, leaving or while on the property. Failure to comply with any of the applicable provisions is a violation of these regulations.
Preservation of Property (41 CFR 102-74.380).
All persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from—
(a) Improperly disposing of rubbish on property;
(b) Willfully destroying or damaging property;
(c) Stealing property;
(d) Creating any hazard on property to persons or things; and
(e) Throwing articles of any kind from or at a building or the climbing upon statues, fountains or any part of the building.
Conformity with Signs and Directions (41 CFR 102-74.385).
Persons in and on property must at all times comply with official signs of a prohibitory, regulatory or directory nature and with the lawful direction of Federal police officers and other authorized individuals.
Disturbances (41 CFR 102-74.390).
All persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from loitering, exhibiting disorderly conduct or exhibiting other conduct on property that—
(a) Creates loud or unusual noise or a nuisance;
(b) Unreasonably obstructs the usual use of entrances, foyers, lobbies, corridors, offices, elevators, stairways, or parking lots;
(c) Otherwise impedes or disrupts the performance of official duties by Government employees; or
(d) Prevents the general public from obtaining the administrative services provided on the property in a timely manner.
Gambling (41 CFR 102-74.395).
Except for the vending or exchange of chances by licensed blind operators of vending facilities for any lottery set forth in a State law and authorized by section 2(a)(5) of the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107
et seq.
), all persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from—
(a) Participating in games for money or other personal property;
(b) Operating gambling devices;
(c) Conducting a lottery or pool; or
(d) Selling or purchasing numbers tickets.
Narcotics and Other Drugs (41 CFR 102-74.400).
Except in cases where the drug is being used as prescribed for a patient by a licensed physician, all persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from—
(a) Being under the influence, using or possessing any narcotic drugs, hallucinogens, marijuana, barbiturates, or amphetamines; or
(b) Operating a motor vehicle on the property while under the influence of alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs, hallucinogens, marijuana, barbiturates, or amphetamines.
Alcoholic Beverages (41 CFR 102-74.405).
Except where the head of the responsible agency or his or her designee has granted an exemption in writing for the appropriate official use of alcoholic beverages, all persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from being under the influence or using alcoholic beverages. The head of the responsible agency or his or her designee must provide a copy of all exemptions granted to the buildings manager and the highest ranking representative of the law enforcement organization, or other authorized officials, responsible for the security of the property.
Soliciting, Vending and Debt Collection (41 CFR 102-74.410).
All persons entering in or on
Federal property are prohibited from soliciting alms (including money and non-monetary items) or commercial or political donations; vending merchandise of all kinds; displaying or distributing commercial advertising, or collecting private debts, except for—
(a) National or local drives for funds for welfare, health or other purposes as authorized by 5 CFR part 950, entitled “Solicitation of Federal Civilian And Uniformed Service Personnel For Contributions To Private Voluntary Organizations,” and sponsored or approved by the occupant agencies;
(b) Concessions or personal notices posted by employees on authorized bulletin boards;
(c) Solicitation of labor organization membership or dues authorized by occupant agencies under the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454);
(d) Lessee, or its agents and employees, with respect to space leased for commercial, cultural, educational, or recreational use under the Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act of 1976 (40 U.S.C. 581(h)). Public areas of GSA-controlled property may be used for other activities in accordance with subpart D of this part;
(e) Collection of non-monetary items that are sponsored or approved by the occupant agencies; and
(f) Commercial activities sponsored by recognized Federal employee associations and on-site child care centers.
Posting and Distributing Materials (41 CFR 102-74.415).
All persons entering in or on Federal property are prohibited from—
(a) Distributing free samples of tobacco products in or around Federal buildings, under Public Law 104-52, Section 636;
(b) Posting or affixing materials, such as pamphlets, handbills, or flyers, on bulletin boards or elsewhere on GSA-controlled property, except as authorized in § 102-74.410, or when these displays are conducted as part of authorized Government activities; and
(c) Distributing materials, such as pamphlets, handbills, or flyers, unless conducted as part of authorized Government activities. This prohibition does not apply to public areas of the property as defined in § 102-71.20 of this chapter. However, any person or organization proposing to distribute materials in a public area under this section must first obtain a permit from the building manager as specified in subpart D of this part. Any such person or organization must distribute materials only in accordance with the provisions of subpart D of this part. Failure to comply with those provisions is a violation of these regulations.
Photographs for News, Advertising, or Commercial Purposes (41 CFR 102-74.420).
Except where security regulations, rules, orders, or directives apply or a Federal court order or rule prohibits it, persons entering in or on Federal property may take photographs of—
(a) Space occupied by a tenant agency for non-commercial purposes only with the permission of the occupying agency concerned;
(b) Space occupied by a tenant agency for commercial purposes only with written permission of an authorized official of the occupying agency concerned; and
(c) Building entrances, lobbies, foyers, corridors, or auditoriums for news purposes.
Dogs and Other Animals (41 CFR 102-74.425).
No person may bring dogs or other animals on Federal property for other than official purposes. However, a disabled person may bring a seeing-eye dog, a guide dog, or other animal assisting or being trained to assist that individual.
Breastfeeding (41 CFR 102-74.426).
Public Law 108-199, Section 629, Division F, Title VI (January 23, 2004), provides that a woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized to be present at the location.
Vehicular and Pedestrian Traffic (41 CFR 102-74.430).
All vehicle drivers entering or while on Federal property—
(a) Must drive in a careful and safe manner at all times;
(b) Must comply with the signals and directions of Federal police officers or other authorized individuals;
(c) Must comply with all posted traffic signs;
(d) Must comply with any additional posted traffic directives approved by the GSA Regional Administrator, which will have the same force and effect as these regulations;
(e) Are prohibited from blocking entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants; and
(f) Are prohibited from parking on Federal property without a permit. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons, or parking contrary to the direction of posted signs is prohibited. Vehicles parked in violation, where warning signs are posted, are subject to removal at the owner's risk and expense. Federal agencies may take as proof that a motor vehicle was parked in violation of these regulations or directives as prima facie evidence that the registered owner was responsible for the violation.
Explosives (41 CFR 102-74.435).
No person entering or while on property may carry or possess explosives, or items intended to be used to fabricate an explosive or incendiary device, either openly or concealed, except for official purposes.
Weapons (41 CFR 102-74.440).
Federal law prohibits the possession of firearms or other dangerous weapons in Federal facilities and Federal court facilities by all persons not specifically authorized by Title 18, United States Code, Section 930. Violators will be subject to fine and/or imprisonment for periods up to five (5) years.
Nondiscrimination (41 CFR 102-74.445).
Federal agencies must not discriminate by segregation or otherwise against any person or persons because of race, creed, religion, age, sex, color, disability, or national origin in furnishing or by refusing to furnish to such person or persons the use of any facility of a public nature, including all services, privileges, accommodations, and activities provided on the property.
Penalties (41 CFR 102-74.450).
A person found guilty of violating any rule or regulation in subpart C of this part while on any property under the charge and control of the U.S. General Services Administration shall be fined under title 18 of the United States Code, imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
Impact on Other Laws or Regulations (41 CFR 102-74.455).
No rule or regulation in this subpart may be construed to nullify any other Federal laws or regulations or any State and local laws and regulations applicable to any area in which the property is situated (40 U.S.C. 121 (c)).

# Warning—Weapons Prohibited
Federal law prohibits the possession of firearms or other dangerous weapons in Federal facilities and Federal court facilities by all persons not specifically authorized by Title 18, United States Code, Section 930. Violators will be subject to fine and/or imprisonment for periods up to five (5) years.
Pt. 102-75

# PART 102-75—REAL PROPERTY DISPOSAL

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
102-75.5
What is the scope of this part?
102-75.10
What basic real property disposal policy governs disposal agencies?

# Real Property Disposal Services
102-75.15
What real property disposal services must disposal agencies provide under a delegation of authority from GSA?
102-75.20
How can Federal agencies with independent disposal authority obtain related disposal services?

# Subpart B—Utilization of Excess Real Property
102-75.25
What are landholding agencies' responsibilities concerning the utilization of excess property?
102-75.30
What are disposal agencies' responsibilities concerning the utilization of excess property?
102-75.35
[Reserved]

# Standards
102-75.40
What are the standards that each Executive agency must use to identify unneeded Federal real property?
102-75.45
What does the term “Not utilized” mean?
102-75.50
What does the term “Underutilized” mean?
102-75.55
What does the term “Not being put to optimum use” mean?

# Guidelines
102-75.60
What are landholding agencies' responsibilities concerning real property surveys?
102-75.65
Why is it important for Executive agencies to notify the disposal agency of its real property needs?
102-75.70
Are their any exceptions to this notification policy?
102-75.75
What is the most important consideration in evaluating a proposed transfer of excess real property?
102-75.80
What are an Executive agency's responsibilities before requesting a transfer of excess real property?
102-75.85
Can disposal agencies transfer excess real property to agencies for programs that appear to be scheduled for substantial curtailment or termination?
102-75.90
How is excess real property needed for office, storage, and related purposes normally transferred to the requesting agency?
102-75.95
Can Federal agencies that normally do not require real property (other than for office, storage, and related purposes) or that may not have statutory authority to acquire such property, obtain the use of excess real property?

# Land Withdrawn or Reserved From the Public Domain
102-75.100
When an agency holds land withdrawn or reserved from the public domain and determines that it no longer needs this land, what must it do?
102-75.105
What responsibility does the Department of the Interior have if it determines that minerals in the land are unsuitable for disposition under the public land mining and mineral leasing laws?

# Transfers Under Other Laws
102-75.110
Can transfers of real property be made under authority of laws other than those codified in Title 40 of the United States Code?

# Reporting of Excess Real Property
102-75.115
Must reports of excess real property and related personal property be prepared on specific forms?
102-75.120
Is there any other information that needs to accompany (or be submitted with) the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118)?

# Title Report
102-75.125
What information must agencies include in the title report?
102-75.130
If hazardous substance activity took place on the property, what specific information must an agency include on the title report?
102-75.135
If no hazardous substance activity took place on the property, what specific information must an agency include in the title report?

# Other Necessary Information
102-75.140
In addition to the title report, and all necessary environmental information and certifications, what information must an Executive agency transmit with the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118)?

# Examination for Acceptability
102-75.145
Is GSA required to review each report of excess?
102-75.150
What happens when GSA determines that the report of excess is adequate?
102-75.155
What happens if GSA determines that the report of excess is insufficient?

# Designation as Personal Property
102-75.160
Should prefabricated movable structures be designated real or personal property for disposition purposes?
102-75.165
Should related personal property be designated real or personal property for disposition purposes?
102-75.170
What happens to the related personal property in a structure scheduled for demolition?

# Transfers
102-75.175
What are GSA's responsibilities regarding transfer requests?
102-75.180
May landholding agencies transfer excess real property without notifying GSA?
102-75.185
In those instances where landholding agencies may transfer excess real property without notifying GSA, which policies must they follow?
102-75.190
What amount must the transferee agency pay for the transfer of excess real property?
102-75.195
If the transferor agency is a wholly owned Government corporation, what amount must the transferee agency pay?
102-75.200
What amount must the transferee agency pay if property is being transferred for the purpose of upgrading the transferee agency's facilities?
102-75.205
Are transfers ever made without reimbursement by the transferee agency?
102-75.210
What must a transferee agency include in its request for an exception from the 100 percent reimbursement requirement?
102-75.215
Who must endorse requests for exception to the 100 percent reimbursement requirement?
102-75.220
Where should an agency send a request for exception to the 100 percent reimbursement requirement?
102-75.225
Who must review and approve a request for exception from the 100 percent reimbursement requirement?
102-75.230
Who is responsible for property protection and maintenance costs while the request for exception is being reviewed?
102-75.235
May disposal agencies transfer excess property to the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol?

# Temporary Utilization
102-75.240
May excess real property be temporarily assigned/reassigned?

# Non-Federal Interim Use of Excess Property
102-75.245
When can landholding agencies grant rights for non-Federal interim use of excess property reported to GSA?

# Subpart C—Surplus Real Property Disposal
102-75.250
What general policy must the disposal agency follow concerning the disposal of surplus property?
102-75.255
What are disposal agencies' specific responsibilities concerning the disposal of surplus property?
102-75.260
When may the disposal agency dispose of surplus real property by exchange for privately owned property?
102-75.265
Are conveyance documents required to identify all agreements and representations concerning property restrictions and conditions?

# Applicability of Antitrust Laws
102-75.270
Must antitrust laws be considered when disposing of property?
102-75.275
Who determines whether the proposed disposal would create or maintain a situation inconsistent with antitrust laws?
102-75.280
What information concerning a proposed disposal must a disposal agency provide to the Attorney General to determine the applicability of antitrust laws?
102-75.285
Can a disposal agency dispose of real property to a private interest specified in § 102-75.270 before advice is received from the Attorney General?

# Disposals Under Other Laws
102-75.290
Can disposals of real property be made under authority of laws other than Chapter 5 of Subtitle I of Title 40 of the United States Code?

# Credit Disposals
102-75.295
What is the policy on extending credit in connection with the disposal of surplus property?

# Designation of Disposal Agencies
102-75.296
When may a landholding agency other than GSA be the disposal agency for real and related personal property?
102-75.297
Are there any exceptions to when landholding agencies may serve as the disposal agency?
102-75.298
Can agencies request that GSA be the disposal agency for real property and real property interests described in § 102-75.296?
102-75.299
What are landholding agencies' responsibilities if GSA conducts the disposal?

# Appraisal
102-75.300
Are appraisals required for all real property disposal transactions?
102-75.305
What type of appraisal value must be obtained for real property disposal transactions?
102-75.310
Who must agencies use to appraise the real property?
102-75.315
Are appraisers authorized to consider the effect of historic covenants on the fair market value?
102-75.320
Does appraisal information need to be kept confidential?

# Inspection
102-75.325
What responsibility does the landholding agency have to provide persons the opportunity to inspect available surplus property?

# Submission of Offers To Purchase or Lease
102-75.330
What form must all offers to purchase or lease be in?

# Provisions Relating to Asbestos
102-75.335
Where asbestos is identified, what information must the disposal agency incorporate into the offer to purchase and the conveyance document?

# Provisions Relating to Hazardous Substance Activity
102-75.340
Where hazardous substance activity has been identified on property proposed for disposal, what information must the disposal agency incorporate into the offer to purchase and the conveyance document?
102-75.345
What is different about the statements in the offer to purchase and conveyance document if the sale is to a potentially responsible party with respect to the hazardous substance activity?

# Public Benefit Conveyances
102-75.350
What are disposal agencies' responsibilities concerning public benefit conveyances?
102-75.351
May the disposal agency waive screening for public benefit conveyances?
102-75.355
What clause must be in the offer to purchase and the conveyance documents for public benefit conveyances?
102-75.360
What wording must be in the non-discrimination clause that is required in the offer to purchase and the conveyance document?

# Power Transmission Lines
102-75.365
Do disposal agencies have to notify State entities and Government agencies that a surplus power transmission line and right-of-way is available?
102-75.370
May a State, or any political subdivision thereof, certify to a disposal agency that it needs a surplus power transmission line and the right-of-way acquired for its construction to meet the requirements of a public or cooperative power project?
102-75.375
What happens once a State, or political subdivision, certifies that it needs a surplus power transmission line and the right-of-way acquired for its construction to meet the requirements of a public or cooperative power project?
102-75.380
May power transmission lines and rights-of-way be disposed of in other ways?

# Property for Public Airports
102-75.385
Do disposal agencies have the responsibility to notify eligible public agencies that airport property has been determined to be surplus?
102-75.390
What does the term “surplus airport property” mean?
102-75.395
May surplus airport property be conveyed or disposed of to a State, political subdivision, municipality, or tax-supported institution for a public airport?
102-75.400
Is industrial property located on an airport also considered to be “airport property”?
102-75.405
What responsibilities does the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) have after receiving a copy of the notice (and a copy of the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118)) given to eligible public agencies that there is surplus airport property?
102-75.410
What action must the disposal agency take after an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use and application to acquire property for a public airport?
102-75.415
What happens after the disposal agency receives the FAA's recommendation for disposal of the property for a public airport?
102-75.420
What happens if the FAA informs the disposal agency that it does not recommend disposal of the property for a public airport?
102-75.425
Who has sole responsibility for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of disposal for property disposed of for use as a public airport?
102-75.430
What happens if property conveyed for use as a public airport is revested in the United States?
102-75.435
Does the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970, as amended (Airport Act of 1970) apply to the transfer of airports to State and local agencies?

# Property for Use as Historic Monuments
102-75.440
Who must disposal agencies notify that surplus property is available for historic monument use?
102-75.445
Who can convey surplus real and related personal property for historic monument use?
102-75.450
What type of property is suitable or desirable for use as a historic monument?
102-75.455
May historic monuments be used for revenue-producing activities?
102-75.460
What information must disposal agencies furnish eligible public agencies?
102-75.465
What information must eligible public agencies interested in acquiring real property for use as a historic monument submit to the appropriate regional or field offices of the National Park Service (NPS) of the Department of the Interior (DOI)?
102-75.470
What action must NPS take after an eligible public agency has submitted an application for conveyance of surplus property for use as a historic monument?
102-75.475
What happens after the disposal agency receives the Secretary of the Interior's determination for disposal of the surplus property for a historic monument and compatible revenue-producing activities?
102-75.480
Who has the responsibility for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of disposal for surplus property conveyed for use as a historic monument?
102-75.485
What happens if property that was conveyed for use as a historic monument is revested in the United States?

# Property for Educational and Public Health Purposes
102-75.490
Who must notify eligible public agencies that surplus real property for educational and public health purposes is available?
102-75.495
May the Department of Education (ED) or the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) notify nonprofit organizations that surplus real property and related personal property is available for educational and public health purposes?
102-75.500
Which Federal agencies may the head of the disposal agency (or his or her designee) assign for disposal surplus real property to be used for educational and public health purposes?
102-75.505
Is the request for educational or public health use of a property by an eligible nonprofit institution contingent upon the disposal agency's approval?
102-75.510
When must the Department of Education and the Department of Health and Human Services notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
102-75.515
What action must the disposal agency take after an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use for property for an educational or public health requirement?
102-75.520
What must the Department of Education or the Department of Health and Human Services address in the assignment recommendation that is submitted to the disposal agency?
102-75.525
What responsibilities do landholding agencies have concerning properties to be used for educational and public health purposes?
102-75.530
What happens if the Department of Education or the Department of Health and Human Services does not approve any applications for conveyance of the property for educational or public health purposes?
102-75.535
What responsibilities does the Department of Education or the Department of Health and Human Services have after receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter?
102-75.540
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the transfer for educational or public health purposes?
102-75.545
What happens if property that was transferred to meet an educational or public health requirement is revested in the United States for noncompliance with the terms of sale, or other cause?

# Property for Providing Self-Help Housing or Housing Assistance
102-75.550
What does “self-help housing or housing assistance” mean?
102-75.555
Which Federal agency receives the property assigned for self-help housing or housing assistance for low-income individuals or families?
102-75.560
Who notifies eligible public agencies that real property to be used for self-help housing or housing assistance purposes is available?
102-75.565
Is the requirement for self-help housing or housing assistance use of the property by an eligible public agency or nonprofit organization contingent upon the disposal agency's approval of an assignment recommendation from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)?
102-75.570
What happens if the disposal agency does not approve the assignment recommendation?
102-75.575
Who notifies nonprofit organizations that surplus real property and related personal property to be used for self-help housing or housing assistance purposes is available?
102-75.580
When must HUD notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
102-75.585
What action must the disposal agency take after an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use for property for a self-help housing or housing assistance requirement?
102-75.590
What does the assignment recommendation contain?
102-75.595
What responsibilities do landholding agencies have concerning properties to be used for self-help housing or housing assistance use?
102-75.600
What happens if HUD does not approve any applications for self-help housing or housing assistance use?
102-75.605
What responsibilities does HUD have after receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter?
102-75.610
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the transfer of the property for self-help housing or housing assistance use?
102-75.615
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of property transferred under section 414(a) of the 1969 HUD Act?
102-75.620
What happens if property that was transferred to meet a self-help housing or housing assistance use requirement is found to be in noncompliance with the terms of sale?

# Property for Use as Public Park or Recreation Areas
102-75.625
Which Federal agency is assigned surplus real property for public park or recreation purposes?
102-75.630
Who must disposal agencies notify that real property for public park or recreation purposes is available?
102-75.635
What information must the Department of the Interior (DOI) furnish eligible public agencies?
102-75.640
When must DOI notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
102-75.645
What responsibilities do landholding agencies have concerning properties to be used for public park or recreation purposes?
102-75.650
When must DOI request assignment of the property?
102-75.655
What does the assignment recommendation contain?
102-75.660
What happens if DOI does not approve any applications or does not submit an assignment recommendation?
102-75.665
What happens after the disposal agency receives the assignment recommendation from DOI?
102-75.670
What responsibilities does DOI have after receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter?
102-75.675
What responsibilities does the grantee or recipient of the property have in accomplishing or completing the transfer?
102-75.680
What information must be included in the deed of conveyance of any surplus property transferred for public park or recreation purposes?
102-75.685
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the transfer of property used for public park or recreation purposes?
102-75.690
What happens if property that was transferred for use as a public park or recreation area is revested in the United States by reason of noncompliance with the terms or conditions of disposal, or for other cause?

# Property for Displaced Persons
102-75.695
Who can receive surplus real property for the purpose of providing replacement housing for persons who are to be displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects?
102-75.700
Which Federal agencies may solicit applications from eligible State agencies interested in acquiring the property to provide replacement housing for persons being displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects?
102-75.705
When must the Federal agency notify the disposal agency that an eligible State agency is interested in acquiring the property under section 218?
102-75.710
What responsibilities do landholding and disposal agencies have concerning properties used for providing replacement housing for persons who will be displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects?
102-75.715
When can a Federal agency request transfer of the property to the selected State agency?
102-75.720
Is there a specific or preferred format for the transfer request and who should receive it?
102-75.725
What does the transfer request contain?
102-75.730
What happens if a Federal agency does not submit a transfer request to the disposal agency for property to be used for replacement housing for persons who will be displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects?
102-75.735
What happens after the disposal agency receives the transfer request from the Federal agency?
102-75.740
Does the State agency have any responsibilities in helping to accomplish the transfer of the property?
102-75.745
What happens if the property transfer request is not approved by the disposal agency?

# Property for Correctional Facility, Law Enforcement, or Emergency Management Response Purposes
102-75.750
Who is eligible to receive surplus real and related personal property for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
102-75.755
Which Federal agencies must the disposal agency notify concerning the availability of surplus properties for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
102-75.760
Who must the Office of Justice Programs (OJP) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) notify that surplus real property is available for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
102-75.765
What does the term “law enforcement” mean?
102-75.770
Is the disposal agency required to approve a determination by the Department of Justice (DOJ) that identifies surplus property for correctional facility use or for law enforcement use?
102-75.775
Is the disposal agency required to approve a determination by FEMA that identifies surplus property for emergency management response use?
102-75.780
When must DOJ or FEMA notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
102-75.785
What specifically must DOJ or FEMA address in the assignment request or recommendation that is submitted to the disposal agency?
102-75.790
What responsibilities do landholding agencies and disposal agencies have concerning properties to be used for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
102-75.795
What happens after the disposal agency receives the assignment request by DOJ or FEMA?
102-75.800
What information must be included in the deed of conveyance?
102-75.805
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the transfer of the property used for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes?
102-75.810
What responsibilities do OJP or FEMA have if they discover any information indicating a change in use of a transferred property?
102-75.815
What happens if property conveyed for correctional facility, law enforcement, or emergency management response purposes is found to be in noncompliance with the terms of the conveyance documents?

# Property for Port Facility Use
102-75.820
Which Federal agency is eligible to receive surplus real and related personal property for the development or operation of a port facility?
102-75.825
Who must the disposal agency notify when surplus real and related personal property is available for port facility use?
102-75.830
What does the surplus notice contain?
102-75.835
When must DOT notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
102-75.840
What action must the disposal agency take after an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use for and an application to acquire a port facility property?
102-75.845
What must DOT address in the assignment recommendation submitted to the disposal agency?
102-75.850
What responsibilities do landholding agencies have concerning properties to be used in the development or operation of a port facility?
102-75.855
What happens if DOT does not submit an assignment recommendation?
102-75.860
What happens after the disposal agency receives the assignment recommendation from DOT?
102-75.865
What responsibilities does DOT have after receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter?
102-75.870
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the port facility conveyance?
102-75.875
What happens in the case of repossession by the United States under a reversion of title for noncompliance with the terms or conditions of conveyance?

# Negotiated Sales
102-75.880
When may Executive agencies conduct negotiated sales?
102-75.885
What are the disposal agency's responsibilities concerning negotiated sales?
102-75.890
What clause must be in the offer to purchase and conveyance documents for negotiated sales to public agencies?
102-75.895
What wording must generally be in the excess profits clause that is required in the offer to purchase and in the conveyance document?
102-75.900
What is a negotiated sale for economic development purposes?

# Explanatory Statements for Negotiated Sales
102-75.905
When must the disposal agency prepare an explanatory statement?
102-75.910
Are there any exceptions to this policy of preparing explanatory statements?
102-75.915
Do disposal agencies need to retain a copy of the explanatory statement?
102-75.920
Where is the explanatory statement sent?
102-75.925
Is GSA required to furnish the disposal agency with the explanatory statement's transmittal letter sent to Congress?
102-75.930
What happens if there is no objection by an appropriate committee or subcommittee of Congress concerning the proposed negotiated sale?

# Public Sales
102-75.935
What are disposal agencies' responsibilities concerning public sales?

# Disposing of Easements
102-75.936
When can an agency dispose of an easement?
102-75.937
Can an easement be released or disposed of at no cost?
102-75.938
May the easement and the land that benefited from the easement (dominant estate) be disposed of separately?

# Granting Easements
102-75.939
When can agencies grant easements?
102-75.940
Can agencies grant easements at no cost?
102-75.941
Does an agency retain responsibility for the easement?
102-75.942
What must agencies consider when granting easements?
102-75.943
What happens if granting an easement will reduce the value of the property?

# Non-Federal Interim Use of Surplus Property
102-75.944
Can landholding agencies outlease surplus real property for non-Federal interim use?

# Subpart D—Management of Excess and Surplus Real Property
102-75.945
What is GSA's policy concerning the physical care, handling, protection, and maintenance of excess and surplus real property and related personal property?

# Taxes and Other Obligations
102-75.950
Who has the responsibility for paying property-related obligations pending transfer or disposal of the property?

# Decontamination
102-75.955
Who is responsible for decontaminating excess and surplus real property?

# Improvements or Alterations
102-75.960
May landholding agencies make improvements or alterations to excess or surplus property in those cases where disposal is otherwise not feasible?

# Protection and Maintenance
102-75.965
Who must perform the protection and maintenance of excess and surplus real property pending transfer to another Federal agency or disposal?
102-75.970
How long is the landholding agency responsible for the expense of protection and maintenance of excess and surplus real property pending its transfer or disposal?
102-75.975
What happens if the property is not conveyed or disposed of during this time frame?
102-75.980
Who is responsible for protection and maintenance expenses if there is no written agreement or no Congressional appropriation to the disposal agency?

# Assistance in Disposition
102-75.985
Is the landholding agency required to assist the disposal agency in the disposition process?

# Subpart E—Abandonment, Destruction, or Donation to Public Bodies
102-75.990
May Federal agencies abandon, destroy, or donate to public bodies real property?

# Dangerous Property
102-75.995
May Federal agencies dispose of dangerous property?

# Determinations
102-75.1000
How is the decision made to abandon, destroy, or donate property?
102-75.1005
Who can make the determination within the Federal agency on whether a property can be abandoned, destroyed, or donated?
102-75.1010
When is a reviewing authority required to approve the determination concerning a property that is to be abandoned, destroyed, or donated?

# Restrictions
102-75.1015
Are there any restrictions on Federal agencies concerning property donations to public bodies?

# Disposal Costs
102-75.1020
Are public bodies ever required to pay the disposal costs associated with donated property?

# Abandonment and Destruction
102-75.1025
When can a Federal agency abandon or destroy improvements on land or related personal property in lieu of donating it to a public body?
102-75.1030
May Federal agencies abandon or destroy property in any manner they decide?
102-75.1035
Are there any restrictions on Federal agencies concerning the abandonment or destruction of improvements on land or related personal property?
102-75.1040
May Federal agencies abandon or destroy improvements on land or related personal property before public notice is given of such proposed abandonment or destruction?
102-75.1045
Are there exceptions to the policy that requires public notice be given before Federal agencies abandon or destroy improvements on land or related personal property?
102-75.1050
Is there any property for which this subpart does not apply?

# Subpart F—Delegations

# Delegation to the Department of Defense (DoD)
102-75.1055
What is the policy governing delegations of real property disposal authority to the Secretary of Defense?
102-75.1060
What must the Secretary of Defense do before determining that DoD-controlled excess real property and related personal property is not required for the needs of any Federal agency and prior to disposal?
102-75.1065
When using a delegation of real property disposal authority under this subpart, is DoD required to report excess property to GSA?
102-75.1070
Can this delegation of authority to the Secretary of Defense be redelegated?

# Delegation to the Department of Agriculture (USDA)
102-75.1075
What is the policy governing delegations of real property disposal authority to the Secretary of Agriculture?
102-75.1080
What must the Secretary of Agriculture do before determining that USDA-controlled excess real property and related personal property is not required for the needs of any Federal agency and prior to disposal?
102-75.1085
When using a delegation of real property disposal authority under this subpart, is the USDA required to report excess property to GSA?
102-75.1090
Can this delegation of authority to the Secretary of Agriculture be redelegated?

# Delegation to the Department of the Interior
102-75.1095
What is the policy governing delegations of authority to the Secretary of the Interior?
102-75.1100
Can this delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Interior be redelegated?
102-75.1105
What other responsibilities does the Secretary of the Interior have under this delegation of authority?

# Native American-Related Delegations
102-75.1110
What is the policy governing delegations of authority to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Education for property used in the administration of any Native American-related functions?
102-75.1115
Are there any limitations or restrictions on this delegation of authority?
102-75.1120
Does the property have to be Federally screened?
102-75.1125
Can the transfer/retransfer under this delegation be at no cost or without consideration?
102-75.1130
What action must the Secretary requesting the transfer take where funds were not programmed and appropriated for acquisition of the property?
102-75.1135
May this delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Education be redelegated?

# Subpart G—Conditional Gifts of Real Property to Further the Defense Effort
102-75.1140
What is the policy governing the acceptance or rejection of a conditional
gift of real property for a particular defense purpose?
102-75.1145
What action must the Federal agency receiving an offer of a conditional gift take?
102-75.1150
What happens to the gift if GSA determines it to be acceptable?
102-75.1155
May an acceptable gift of property be converted to money?

# Subpart H—Use of Federal Real Property To Assist the Homeless

# Definitions
102-75.1160
What definitions apply to this subpart?

# Applicability
102-75.1161
What is the applicability of this subpart?

# Collecting the Information
102-75.1162
How will information be collected?

# Suitability Determination
102-75.1163
Who issues the suitability determination?

# Real Property Reported Excess to GSA
102-75.1164
For the purposes of this subpart, what is the policy concerning real property reported excess to GSA?

# Suitability Criteria
102-75.1165
What are suitability criteria?

# Determination of Availability
102-75.1166
What is the policy concerning determination of availability statements for suitable properties?

# Public Notice of Determination
102-75.1167
What is the policy concerning making public the notice of determination?

# General Policies of HHS
102-75.1168
What are the general policies of HHS?

# Expression of Interest Process
102-75.1169
How may eligible organizations express interest in properties to assist the homeless?

# Application Process and Requirements
102-75.1170
How may eligible organizations apply for the use of properties to assist the homeless?

# Action on Approved Applications
102-75.1171
What action must be taken on approved applications?

# Surplus Property Transfer Documents
102-75.1172
What documents are used for the transfer of surplus property for use to assist the homeless?

# Unsuitable Properties
102-75.1173
What action must be taken on properties determined unsuitable for homeless assistance?

# Compliance With the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and Other Related Acts (Environmental Impact)
102-75.1174
What are the requirements for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and other related Acts (environmental impact) for the transfer of Federal real property for use to assist the homeless?

# No Applications Approved
102-75.1175
What action must be taken if there is no expression of interest or approved application?

# Utilization and Enforcement
102-75.1176
What are the utilization and enforcement requirements for property transferred for use to assist the homeless?

# Other Uses
102-75.1177
What are the requirements for other uses of a transferred property?

# Abrogation
102-75.1178
What are the conditions of abrogation for property transferred to assist the homeless?

# Compliance Inspections and Reports
102-75.1179
What compliance inspections and reports are required?

# No Right of Administrative Review for Agency Decisions
102-75.1180
Is there a right of administrative review for agency decisions within HHS?

# Waivers
102-75.1181
May any requirement of this subpart be waived?

# Severability
102-75.1182
Are the provisions of this subpart severable?
102-75.1183-102-75.1219
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Screening Excess Federal Real Property
102-75.1220
How do landholding agencies find out if excess Federal real property is available?
102-75.1225
What details are provided in the “Notice of Availability”?
102-75.1230
How long does an agency have to indicate its interest in the property?
102-75.1235
Where should an agency send its written response to the “Notice of Availability”?
102-75.1240
Who, from the interested landholding agency, should submit the written response to GSA's “Notice of Availability”?
102-75.1245
What happens after the landholding agency properly responds to a “Notice of Availability”?
102-75.1250
What if the agency is not quite sure it wants the property and needs more time to decide?
102-75.1255
What happens when more than one agency has a valid interest in the property?
102-75.1260
Does GSA conduct Federal screening on every property reported as excess real property?
102-75.1265
Are extensions granted to the Federal screening and response timeframes?
102-75.1270
How does an agency request a transfer of Federal real property?
102-75.1275
Does a requesting agency have to pay for excess real property?
102-75.1280
What happens if the property has already been declared surplus and an agency discovers a need for it?
102-75.1285
How does GSA transfer excess real property to the requesting agency?
102-75.1290
What happens if the landholding agency requesting the property does not promptly accept custody and accountability?

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121(c), 521-523, 541-559; E.O. 12512, 50 FR 18453, 3 CFR, 1985 Comp., p. 340.

# Source:
70 FR 67811, Nov. 8, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 102-75.5
What is the scope of this part?
The real property policies contained in this part apply to Federal agencies, including GSA's Public Buildings Service (PBS), operating under, or subject to, the authorities of the Administrator of General Services. Federal agencies with authority to dispose of real property under Subchapter III of Chapter 5 of Title 40 of the United States Code will be referred to as “disposal agencies” in this part. Except in rare instances where GSA delegates disposal authority to a Federal agency, the “disposal agency” as used in this part refers to GSA.
§ 102-75.10
What basic real property disposal policy governs disposal agencies?
Disposal agencies must provide, in a timely, efficient, and cost effective manner, the full range of real estate services necessary to support their real property utilization and disposal needs. Landholding agencies must survey the real property under their custody or control to identify property that is not utilized, underutilized, or not being put to optimum use. Disposal agencies must have adequate procedures in place to promote the effective utilization and disposal of such real property.

# Real Property Disposal Services
§ 102-75.15
What real property disposal services must agencies provide under a delegation of authority from GSA?
Disposal agencies must provide real property disposal services for real property assets under their custody and control, such as the utilization of excess property, surveys, and the disposal of surplus property, which includes public benefit conveyances, negotiated sales, public sales, related disposal services, and appraisals.
§ 102-75.20
How can Federal agencies with independent disposal authority obtain related disposal services?
Federal agencies with independent disposal authority are encouraged to obtain utilization, disposal, and related services from those agencies with expertise in real property disposal, such as GSA, as allowed by 31 U.S.C. 1535 (the Economy Act), so that they can remain focused on their core mission.

# Subpart B—Utilization of Excess Real Property
§ 102-75.25
What are landholding agencies' responsibilities concerning the utilization of excess property?
Landholding agencies' responsibilities concerning the utilization of excess property are to—
(a) Achieve maximum use of their real property, in terms of economy and
efficiency, to minimize expenditures for the purchase of real property;
(b) Increase the identification and reporting of their excess real property; and
(c) Fulfill its needs for real property, so far as practicable, by utilization of real property determined excess by other agencies, pursuant to the provision of this part, before it purchases non-Federal real property.
§ 102-75.30
What are disposal agencies' responsibilities concerning the utilization of excess property?
Disposal agencies' responsibilities concerning the utilization of excess property are to—
(a) Provide for the transfer of excess real property among Federal agencies, to mixed-ownership Government corporations, and to the municipal government of the District of Columbia; and
(b) Resolve conflicting requests for transferring real property that the involved agencies cannot resolve.
§ 102-75.35
[Reserved]

# Standards
§ 102-75.40
What are the standards that each Executive agency must use to identify unneeded Federal real property?
Each Executive agency must identify unneeded Federal property using the following standards:
(a) Not utilized.
(b) Underutilized.
(c) Not being put to optimum use.
§ 102-75.45
What does the term “Not utilized” mean?
Not utilized means an entire property or portion thereof, with or without improvements, not occupied for current program purposes of the accountable Executive agency, or occupied in caretaker status only.
§ 102-75.50
What does the term “Underutilized” mean?
Underutilized means an entire property or portion thereof, with or without improvements, which is used—
(a) Irregularly or intermittently by the accountable Executive agency for current program purposes of that agency; or
(b) For current program purposes that can be satisfied with only a portion of the property.
§ 102-75.55
What does the term “Not being put to optimum use” mean?
Not being put to optimum use means an entire property or portion thereof, with or without improvements, which—
(a) Even though used for current program purposes, the nature, value, or location of the property is such that it could be utilized for a different and significantly higher and better purpose; or
(b) The costs of occupying are substantially higher than other suitable properties that could be made available through transfer, purchase, or lease with total net savings to the Government, after considering property values, costs of moving, occupancy, operational efficiency, environmental effects, regional planning, and employee morale.

# Guidelines
§ 102-75.60
What are landholding agencies' responsibilities concerning real property surveys?
A landholding agency's responsibilities concerning real property utilization surveys are to—
(a) Survey real property under its control (i.e., property reported on its financial statements) at least annually to identify property that is not utilized, underutilized, or not being put to optimum use. When other needs for the property are identified or recognized, the agency must determine whether continuation of the current use or another use would better serve the public interest, considering both the Federal agency's needs and the property's location. In conducting annual reviews of their property holdings, the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal can provide guidelines for Executive agencies to consider in identifying unneeded Federal real property;
(b) Maintain its inventory of real property at the absolute minimum consistent with economical and efficient conduct of the affairs of the agency; and
(c) Promptly report to GSA real property that it has determined to be excess.
§ 102-75.65
Why is it important for Executive agencies to notify the disposal agency of its real property needs?
It is important that each Executive agency notify the disposal agency of its real property needs to determine whether the excess or surplus property of another agency is available that would meet its need and prevent the unnecessary purchase or lease of real property.
§ 102-75.70
Are there any exceptions to this notification policy?
Yes, Executive agencies are not required to notify the disposal agency when an agency's proposed acquisition of real property is dictated by such factors as exact geographical location, topography, engineering, or similar characteristics that limit the possible use of other available property. For example, Executive agencies are not required to notify disposal agencies concerning the acquisition of real property for a dam site, reservoir area, or the construction of a generating plant or a substation, since specific lands are needed, which limit the possible use of other available property. Therefore, no useful purpose would be served by notifying the disposal agency.
§ 102-75.75
What is the most important consideration in evaluating a proposed transfer of excess real property?
In every case of a proposed transfer of excess real property, the most important consideration is the validity and appropriateness of the requirement upon which the proposal is based. Also, a proposed transfer must not establish a new program that has never been reflected in any previous budget submission or congressional action. Additionally, a proposed transfer must not substantially increase the level of an agency's existing programs beyond that which has been contemplated in the President's budget or by the Congress.
(Note: See Subpart I—Screening of Excess Federal Real Property (§§ 102-75.1220 through 102-75.1290) for information on screening and transfer requests.)
§ 102-75.80
What are an Executive agency's responsibilities before requesting a transfer of excess real property?
Before requesting a transfer of excess real property, an Executive agency must—
(a) Screen its own property holdings to determine whether the new requirement can be met through improved utilization of existing real property; however, the utilization must be for purposes that are consistent with the highest and best use of the property under consideration;
(b) Review all real property under its accountability that has been permitted or outleased and terminate the permit or lease for any property, or portion thereof, suitable for the proposed need, if termination is not prohibited by the terms of the permit or lease;
(c) Utilize property that is or can be made available under § 102-75.80(a) or (b) for the proposed need in lieu of requesting a transfer of excess real property and reassign the property, when appropriate;
(d) Confirm that the appraised fair market value of the excess real property proposed for transfer will not substantially exceed the probable purchase price of other real property that would be suitable for the intended purpose;
(e) Limit the size and quantity of excess real property to be transferred to the actual requirements and separate, if possible, other portions of the excess installation for possible disposal to other agencies or to the public; and
(f) Consider the design, layout, geographic location, age, state of repair, and expected maintenance costs of excess real property proposed for transfer; agencies must be able to demonstrate that the transfer will be more economical over a sustained period of time than the acquisition of a new facility specifically planned for the purpose.
§ 102-75.85
Can disposal agencies transfer excess real property to agencies for programs that appear to be scheduled for substantial curtailment or termination?
Yes, but only on a temporary basis with the condition that the property will be released for further Federal utilization or disposal as surplus property at an agreed upon time when the transfer is arranged.
§ 102-75.90
How is excess real property needed for office, storage, and related purposes normally transferred to the requesting agency?
GSA may temporarily assign or direct the use of such excess real property to the requesting agency. See § 102-75.240.
§ 102-75.95
Can Federal agencies that normally do not require real property (other than for office, storage, and related purposes) or that may not have statutory authority to acquire such property, obtain the use of excess real property?
Yes, GSA can authorize the use of excess real property for an approved program. See § 102-75.240.

# Land Withdrawn or Reserved From the Public Domain
§ 102-75.100
When an agency holds land withdrawn or reserved from the public domain and determines that it no longer needs this land, what must it do?
An agency holding unneeded land withdrawn or reserved from the public domain must submit to the appropriate GSA Regional Office a Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118), with appropriate Schedules A, B, and C, only when—
(a) It has filed a notice of intention to relinquish with the Department of the Interior (43 CFR part 2372
et seq.
) and sent a copy of the notice to the appropriate GSA Regional Office;
(b) The Department of the Interior has notified the agency that the Secretary of the Interior has determined that the lands are not suitable for return to the public domain for disposition under the general public land laws because the lands are substantially changed in character by improvements or otherwise; and
(c) The Department of the Interior provides a report identifying whether or not any other agency claims primary, joint, or secondary jurisdiction over the lands and whether its records show that the lands are encumbered by rights or privileges under the public land laws.
§ 102-75.105
What responsibility does the Department of the Interior have if it determines that minerals in the land are unsuitable for disposition under the public land mining and mineral leasing laws?
In such cases, the Department of the Interior must—
(a) Notify the appropriate GSA Regional Office of such a determination; and
(b) Authorize the landholding agency to identify in the Standard Form 118 any minerals in the land that the Department of the Interior determines to be unsuitable for disposition under the public land mining and mineral leasing laws.

# Transfers Under Other Laws
§ 102-75.110
Can transfers of real property be made under authority of laws other than those codified in Title 40 of the United States Code?
Yes, the provisions of this section shall not apply to transfers of real property authorized to be made by 40 U.S.C. 113(e) or by any special statute that directs or requires an Executive agency to transfer or convey specifically described real property in accordance with the provisions of that statute. Transfers of real property must be made only under the authority of Title 40 of the United States Code, unless the independent authority granted to such agency specifically exempts the authority from the requirements of Title 40.

# Reporting of Excess Real Property
§ 102-75.115
Must reports of excess real property and related personal property be prepared on specific forms?
Yes, landholding agencies must prepare reports of excess real property and related personal property on—
(a) Standard Form 118, Report of Excess Real Property, and accompanying
Standard Form 118a, Buildings Structures, Utilities, and Miscellaneous Facilities, Schedule A;
(b) Standard Form 118b, Land, Schedule B; and
(c) Standard Form 118c, Related Personal Property, Schedule C.
§ 102-75.120
Is there any other information that needs to accompany (or be submitted with) the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118)?
Yes, in all cases where Government-owned land is reported excess, Executive agencies must include a title report, prepared or approved by a qualified employee of the landholding agency, documenting the Government's title to the property.

# Title Report
§ 102-75.125
What information must agencies include in the title report?
When completing the title report, agencies must include—
(a) The description of the property;
(b) The date title vested in the United States;
(c) All exceptions, reservations, conditions, and restrictions, relating to the title;
(d) Detailed information concerning any action, thing, or circumstance that occurred from the date the United States acquired the property to the date of the report that in any way affected or may have affected the United States' right, title, or interest in and to the real property (including copies of legal comments or opinions discussing the manner in which and the extent to which such right, title, or interest may have been affected). In the absence of any such action, thing, or circumstance, a statement to that effect must be made a part of the report;
(e) The status of civil and criminal jurisdiction over the land that is peculiar to the property by reason of it being Government-owned land. In the absence of any special circumstances, a statement to that effect must be made a part of the report;
(f) Detailed information regarding any known flood hazards or flooding of the property, and, if the property is located in a flood-plain or on wetlands, a listing of restricted uses (along with the citations) identified in Federal, State, or local regulations as required by Executive Orders 11988 and 11990 of May 24, 1977;
(g) The specific identification and description of fixtures and related personal property that have possible historic or artistic value;
(h) The historical significance of the property and whether the property is listed, is eligible for, or has been nominated for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or is in proximity to a property listed in the National Register. If the landholding agency is aware of any effort by the public to have the property listed in the National Register, it must also include this information;
(i) A description of the type, location, and condition of asbestos incorporated in the construction, repair, or alteration of any building or improvement on the property (e.g., fire-proofing, pipe insulation, etc.) and a description of any asbestos control measures taken for the property. Agencies must also provide to GSA any available indication of costs and/or time necessary to remove all or any portion of the asbestos-containing materials. Agencies are not required to conduct any specific studies and/or tests to obtain this information. (The provisions of this subpart do not apply to asbestos on Federal property that is subject to section 120(h) of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Public Law 99-499);
(j) A statement indicating whether or not lead-based paint is present on the property. Additionally, if the property is target housing (all housing except housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities or any zero bedroom dwelling) constructed prior to 1978, provide a risk assessment and paint inspection report that details all lead-based paint hazards; and
(k) A statement indicating whether or not, during the time the property was owned by the United States, any hazardous substance activity, as defined by regulations issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR part 373, took place on the property. Hazardous substance activity includes situations where any hazardous substance was stored for one
year or more, known to have been released, or disposed of on the property. Agencies reporting such property must review the regulations issued by EPA at 40 CFR part 373 for details on the information required and must comply with these requirements. In addition, agencies reporting such property shall review and comply with the regulations for the utilization and disposal of hazardous materials and certain categories of property set forth at 41 CFR part 101-42.
§ 102-75.130
If hazardous substance activity took place on the property, what specific information must an agency include in the title report?
If hazardous substance activity took place on the property, the reporting agency must include information on the type and quantity of such hazardous substance and the time at which such storage, release, or disposal took place. The reporting agency must also advise the disposal agency if all remedial action necessary to protect human health and the environment with respect to any such hazardous substance activity was taken before the date the property was reported excess. If such action was not taken, the reporting agency must advise the disposal agency when such action will be completed or how the agency expects to comply with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) in the disposal. See §§ 102-75.340 and 102-75.345.
§ 102-75.135
If no hazardous substance activity took place on the property, what specific information must an agency include in the title report?
If no hazardous substance activity took place, the reporting agency must include the following statement:
The (reporting agency) has determined, in accordance with regulations issued by EPA at 40 CFR part 373, that there is no evidence indicating that hazardous substance activity took place on the property during the time the property was owned by the United States.

# Other Necessary Information
§ 102-75.140
In addition to the title report, and all necessary environmental information and certifications, what information must an Executive agency transmit with the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118)?
Executive agencies must provide—
(a) A legible, reproducible copy of all instruments in possession of the agency that affect the United States' right, title, or interest in the property reported or the use and operation of such property (including agreements covering and licenses to use, any patents, processes, techniques, or inventions). If it is impracticable to transmit the abstracts of title and related title evidence, agencies must provide the name and address of the custodian of such documents in the title report referred to in § 102-75.120;
(b) Any appraisal reports indicating or providing the fair market value or the fair annual rental of the property, if requested by the disposal agency; and
(c) A certification by a responsible person that the property does or does not contain polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) transformers or other equipment regulated by EPA under 40 CFR part 761, if requested by the disposal agency. If the property does contain any equipment subject to EPA regulation under 40 CFR part 761, the certification must include the landholding agency's assurance that each piece of equipment is now and will continue to be in compliance with the EPA regulations until disposal of the property.

# Examination for Acceptability
§ 102-75.145
Is GSA required to review each report of excess?
Yes, GSA must review each report of excess to ascertain whether the report was prepared according to the provisions of this part. GSA must notify the landholding agency, in writing, whether the report is acceptable or other information is needed within 15 calendar days after receipt of the report.
§ 102-75.150
What happens when GSA determines that the report of excess is adequate?
When GSA determines that a report is adequate, GSA will accept the report and inform the landholding agency of the acceptance date. However, the landholding agency must, upon request, promptly furnish any additional information or documents relating to the property required by GSA to accomplish a transfer or a disposal.
§ 102-75.155
What happens if GSA determines that the report of excess is insufficient?
Where GSA determines that a report is insufficient, GSA will return the report and inform the landholding agency of the facts and circumstances that make the report insufficient. The landholding agency must promptly take appropriate action to submit an acceptable report to GSA. If the landholding agency is unable to submit an acceptable report, the property will no longer be considered as excess property and the disposal agency will cease activity for the disposal of the property. However, GSA may accept the report of excess on a conditional basis and identify what deficiencies in the report must be corrected in order for the report to gain full acceptance.

# Designation as Personal Property
§ 102-75.160
Should prefabricated movable structures be designated real or personal property for disposition purposes?
Prefabricated movable structures such as Butler-type storage warehouses, Quonset huts, and house trailers (with or without undercarriages) reported to GSA along with the land on which they are located may, at GSA's discretion, be designated for disposition as personal property for off-site use or as real property for disposal with the land.
§ 102-75.165
Should related personal property be designated real or personal property for disposition purposes?
Related personal property may, at the disposal agency's discretion, be designated as personal property for disposal purposes. However, for fine artwork and sculptures, GSA's policy is that artwork specifically created for a Federal building is considered as a fixture of the building. This also applies to sculptures created for a Federal building or a public park. Disposal agencies must follow the policies and guidance for disposal of artwork and sculptures developed by the GSA Office of the Chief Architect, Center for Design Excellence and the Arts, and the Bulletin dated March 26, 1934, entitled “Legal Title to Works Produced under the Public Works of Art Project.”
§ 102-75.170
What happens to the related personal property in a structure scheduled for demolition?
When a structure is to be demolished, any fixtures or related personal property therein may, at the disposal agency's discretion, be designated for disposition as personal property where a ready disposition can be made of these items. As indicated in § 102-75.165, particular consideration should be given to designating items having possible historical or artistic value as personal property.

# Transfers
§ 102-75.175
What are GSA's responsibilities regarding transfer requests?
Before property can be transferred among Federal agencies, to mixed-ownership Government corporations, and to the municipal government of the District of Columbia, GSA must determine that—
(a) The transfer is in the best interest of the Government;
(b) The requesting agency is the appropriate agency to hold the property; and
(c) The proposed land use will maximize use of the real property, in terms of economy and efficiency, to minimize expenditures for the purchase of real property.
(Note: See Subpart I—Screening of Excess Federal Real Property (§§ 102-75.1220 through 102-75.1290) for information on screening and transfer requests.)
§ 102-75.180
May landholding agencies transfer excess real property without notifying GSA?
Landholding agencies may, without notifying GSA, transfer excess real property that they use, occupy, or control under a lease, permit, license, easement, or similar instrument when—
(a) The lease or other instrument is subject to termination by the grantor or owner of the premises within nine months;
(b) The remaining term of the lease or other instrument, including renewal rights, will provide for less than nine months of use and occupancy; or
(c) The lease or other instrument provides for use and occupancy of space for office, storage, and related facilities, which does not exceed a total of 2,500 square feet.
§ 102-75.185
In those instances where landholding agencies may transfer excess real property without notifying GSA, which policies must they follow?
In those instances, landholding agencies must transfer property following the policies in this subpart.
§ 102-75.190
What amount must the transferee agency pay for the transfer of excess real property?
The transferee agency must pay an amount equal to the property's fair market value (determined by the Administrator)—
(a) Where the transferor agency has requested the net proceeds of the transfer pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 574; or
(b) Where either the transferor or transferee agency (or organizational unit affected) is subject to the Government Corporation Control Act (31 U.S.C. 841), is a mixed-ownership Government corporation, or the municipal government of the District of Columbia.
§ 102-75.195
If the transferor agency is a wholly owned Government corporation, what amount must the transferee agency pay?
As may be agreed upon by GSA and the corporation, the transferee agency must pay an amount equal to—
(a) The estimated fair market value of the property; or
(b) The corporation's book value of the property.
§ 102-75.200
What amount must the transferee agency pay if property is being transferred for the purpose of upgrading the transferee agency's facilities?
Where the transfer is for the purpose of upgrading facilities (i.e., for the purpose of replacing other property of the transferee agency, which because of the location, nature, or condition thereof, is less efficient for use), the transferee must pay an amount equal to the difference between the fair market value of the property to be replaced and the fair market value of the property requested, as determined by the Administrator.
§ 102-75.205
Are transfers ever made without reimbursement by the transferee agency?
Transfers may be made without reimbursement by the transferee agency only if—
(a) Congress has specifically authorized the transfer without reimbursement, or
(b) The Administrator, with the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), has approved a request for an exception from the 100 percent reimbursement requirement.
§ 102-75.210
What must a transferee agency include in its request for an exception from the 100 percent reimbursement requirement?
The request must include an explanation of how granting the exception would further essential agency program objectives and at the same time be consistent with Executive Order 12512, Federal Real Property Management, dated April 29, 1985. The transferee agency must attach the explanation to the Request for Transfer of Excess Real and Related Personal Property (GSA Form 1334) prior to submitting the form to GSA. The unavailability of funds alone is not sufficient to justify an exception.
§ 102-75.215
Who must endorse requests for exception to the 100 percent reimbursement requirement?
Agency heads must endorse requests for exceptions to the 100 percent reimbursement requirement.
§ 102-75.220
Where should an agency send a request for exception to the 100 percent reimbursement requirement?
Agencies must submit all requests for exception from the 100 percent reimbursement requirement to the appropriate GSA regional property disposal office.
§ 102-75.225
Who must review and approve a request for exception from the 100 percent reimbursement requirement?
The Administrator must review all requests for exception from the 100 percent reimbursement requirement. If the Administrator approves the request, it is then submitted to OMB for final concurrence. If OMB approves the request, then GSA may complete the transfer.
§ 102-75.230
Who is responsible for property protection and maintenance costs while the request for exception is being reviewed?
The agency requesting the property will assume responsibility for protection and maintenance costs not more than 40 days from the date of the Administrator's letter to OMB requesting concurrence for an exception to the 100 percent reimbursement requirement. If the request is denied, the requesting agency may pay the fair market value for the property or withdraw its request. If the request is withdrawn, responsibility for protection and maintenance cost will return to the landholding agency at that time.
§ 102-75.235
May disposal agencies transfer excess property to the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol?
Yes, disposal agencies may transfer excess property to the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under his or her direction, pursuant to the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 113(d). The amount of reimbursement for such transfer must be the same as would be required for a transfer of excess property to an Executive agency under similar circumstances.

# Temporary Utilization
§ 102-75.240
May excess real property be temporarily assigned/reassigned?
Yes, whenever GSA determines that it is more advantageous to assign property temporarily rather than permanently, it may do so. If the space is for office, storage, or related facilities, GSA will determine the length of the assignment/reassignment. Agencies are required to reimburse the landholding agency (or GSA, if GSA has become responsible for seeking an appropriation for protection and maintenance expenses) (see § 102-75.970) for protection and maintenance expenses. GSA may also temporarily assign/reassign excess real property for uses other than storage, office or related facilities. In such cases, the agency receiving the temporary assignment may be required to pay a rental or users charge based upon the fair market value of the property, as determined by GSA. If the property will be required by the agency for a period of more than 1 year, it may be transferred on a conditional basis, with an understanding that the property will be reported excess at an agreed upon time (see § 102-75.85). The requesting agency is responsible for protection and maintenance expenses.

# Non-Federal Interim Use of Excess Property
§ 102-75.245
When can landholding agencies grant rights for non-Federal interim use of excess property reported to GSA?
Landholding agencies, upon approval from GSA, may grant rights for non-Federal interim use of excess property reported to GSA, when it is determined that such excess property is not required for the needs of any Federal agency and when the interim use will not impair the ability to dispose of the property.

# Subpart C—Surplus Real Property Disposal
§ 102-75.250
What general policy must the disposal agency follow concerning the disposal of surplus property?
The disposal agency must dispose of surplus real property—
(a) In the most economical manner consistent with the best interests of the Government; and
(b) Ordinarily for cash, consistent with the best interests of the Government.
§ 102-75.255
What are disposal agencies' specific responsibilities concerning the disposal of surplus property?
The disposal agency must determine that there is no further Federal need or requirement for the excess real property and the property is surplus to the needs of the Federal Government. After reaching this determination, the disposal agency must expeditiously make the surplus property available for acquisition by State and local governmental units and non-profit institutions (see § 102-75.350) or for sale by public advertising, negotiation, or other disposal action. The disposal agency must consider the availability of real property for public purposes on a case-by-case basis, based on highest and best use and estimated fair market value. Where hazardous substance activity is identified, see §§ 102-75.340 and 102-75.345 for required information that the disposal agency must incorporate into the offer to purchase and conveyance document.
§ 102-75.260
When may the disposal agency dispose of surplus real property by exchange for privately owned property?
The disposal agency may dispose of surplus real property by exchange for privately owned property for property management considerations such as boundary realignment or for providing access. The disposal agency may also dispose of surplus real property by exchange for privately owned property where authorized by law, when the requesting Federal agency receives approval from the Office of Management and Budget and the appropriate oversight committees, and where the transaction offers substantial economic or unique program advantages not otherwise obtainable by any other acquisition method.
§ 102-75.265
Are conveyance documents required to identify all agreements and representations concerning property restrictions and conditions?
Yes, conveyance documents must identify all agreements and representations concerning restrictions and conditions affecting the property's future use, maintenance, or transfer.

# Applicability of Antitrust Laws
§ 102-75.270
Must antitrust laws be considered when disposing of property?
Yes, antitrust laws must be considered in any case in which there is contemplated a disposal to any private interest of—
(a) Real and related personal property that has an estimated fair market value of $3 million or more; or
(b) Patents, processes, techniques, or inventions, irrespective of cost.
§ 102-75.275
Who determines whether the proposed disposal would create or maintain a situation inconsistent with antitrust laws?
The Attorney General determines whether the proposed disposal would create or maintain a situation inconsistent with antitrust laws.
§ 102-75.280
What information concerning a proposed disposal must a disposal agency provide to the Attorney General to determine the applicability of antitrust laws?
The disposal agency must promptly provide the Attorney General with notice of any such proposed disposal and the probable terms or conditions, as required by 40 U.S.C. 559. If notice is given by any disposal agency other than GSA, a copy of the notice must also be provided simultaneously to the GSA Regional Office in which the property is located. Upon request, a disposal agency must furnish information that the Attorney General believes to be necessary in determining whether the proposed disposition or any other
disposition of surplus real property violates or would violate any of the antitrust laws.
§ 102-75.285
Can a disposal agency dispose of real property to a private interest specified in § 102-75.270 before advice is received from the Attorney General?
No, advice from the Attorney General must be received before disposing of real property.

# Disposals Under Other Laws
§ 102-75.290
Can disposals of real property be made under authority of laws other than Chapter 5 of Subtitle I of Title 40 of the United States Code?
Except for disposals specifically authorized by special legislation, disposals of real property must be made only under the authority of Chapter 5 of Subtitle I of Title 40 of the United States Code. However, the Administrator of General Services can evaluate, on a case-by-case basis, the disposal provisions of any other law to determine consistency with the authority conferred by Title 40. The provisions of this section do not apply to disposals of real property authorized to be made by 40 U.S.C. 113 or by any special statute that directs or requires an Executive agency named in the law to transfer or convey specifically described real property in accordance with the provisions of that statute.

# Credit Disposals
§ 102-75.295
What is the policy on extending credit in connection with the disposal of surplus property?
The disposal agency—
(a) May extend credit in connection with any disposal of surplus property when it determines that credit terms are necessary to avoid reducing the salability of the property and potential obtainable price and, when below market rates are extended, confer with the Office of Management and Budget to determine if the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 is applicable to the transaction;
(b) Must administer and manage the credit disposal and any related security;
(c) May enforce, adjust, or settle any right of the Government with respect to extending credit in a manner and with terms that are in the best interests of the Government; and
(d) Must include provisions in the conveyance documents that obligate the purchaser, where a sale is made upon credit, to obtain the disposal agency's prior written approval before reselling or leasing the property. The purchaser's credit obligations to the United States must be fulfilled before the disposal agency may approve the resale of the property.

# Designation of Disposal Agencies
§ 102-75.296
When may a landholding agency other than GSA be the disposal agency for real and related personal property?
A landholding agency may be the disposal agency for real and related personal property when—
(a) The agency has statutory authority to dispose of real and related personal property;
(b) The agency has delegated authority from GSA to dispose of real and related personal property; or
(c) The agency is disposing of—
(1) Leases, licenses, permits, easements, and other similar real estate interests held by agencies in non-Government-owned real property;
(2) Government-owned improvements, including fixtures, structures, and other improvements of any kind as long as the underlying land is not being disposed; or
(3) Standing timber, embedded gravel, sand, stone, and underground water, without the underlying land.
§ 102-75.297
Are there any exceptions to when landholding agencies can serve as the disposal agency?
Yes, landholding agencies may not serve as the disposal agency when—
(a) Either the landholding agency or GSA determines that the Government's best interests are served by disposing of leases, licenses, permits, easements and similar real estate interests together with other property owned or controlled by the Government that has been or will be reported to GSA, or
(b) Government-owned machinery and equipment being used by a contractor-operator will be sold to a contractor-operator.
§ 102-75.298
Can agencies request that GSA be the disposal agency for real property and real property interests described in § 102-75.296?
Yes. If requested, GSA, at its discretion, may be the disposal agency for such real property and real property interests.
§ 102-75.299
What are landholding agencies' responsibilities if GSA conducts the disposal?
Landholding agencies are and remain responsible for all rental/lease payments until the lease expires or is terminated. Landholding agencies are responsible for paying any restoration or other direct costs incurred by the Government associated with termination of a lease, and for paying any demolition and removal costs not offset by the sale of the property. (See also § 102-75.965.)

# Appraisal
§ 102-75.300
Are appraisals required for all real property disposal transactions?
Generally, yes, appraisals are required for all real property disposal transactions, except when—
(a) An appraisal will serve no useful purpose (e.g., legislation authorizes conveyance without monetary consideration or at a fixed price). This exception does not apply to negotiated sales to public agencies intending to use the property for a public purpose not covered by any of the special disposal provisions in subpart C of this part; or
(b) The estimated fair market value of property to be offered on a competitive sale basis does not exceed $300,000.
§ 102-75.305
What type of appraisal value must be obtained for real property disposal transactions?
For all real property transactions requiring appraisals, agencies must obtain, as appropriate, an appraisal of either the fair market value or the fair annual rental value of the property available for disposal.
§ 102-75.310
Who must agencies use to appraise the real property?
Agencies must use only experienced and qualified real estate appraisers familiar with the types of property to be appraised when conducting the appraisal. When an appraisal is required for negotiation purposes, the same standard applies. However, agencies may authorize other methods of obtaining an estimate of the fair market value or the fair annual rental when the cost of obtaining that data from a contract appraiser would be out of proportion to the expected recoverable value of the property.
§ 102-75.315
Are appraisers authorized to consider the effect of historic covenants on the fair market value?
Yes, appraisers are authorized to consider the effect of historic covenants on the fair market value, if the property is in or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places.
§ 102-75.320
Does appraisal information need to be kept confidential?
Yes, appraisals, appraisal reports, appraisal analyses, and other pre-decisional appraisal documents are confidential and can only be used by authorized Government personnel who can substantiate the need to know this information. Appraisal information must not be divulged prior to the delivery and acceptance of the deed. Any persons engaged to collect or evaluate appraisal information must certify that—
(a) They have no direct or indirect interest in the property; and
(b) The report was prepared and submitted without bias or influence.

# Inspection
§ 102-75.325
What responsibility does the landholding agency have to provide persons the opportunity to inspect available surplus property?
Landholding agencies should provide all persons interested in acquiring available surplus property with the opportunity to make a complete inspection of the property, including any available inventory records, plans, specifications, and engineering reports
that relate to the property. These inspections are subject to any necessary national security restrictions and are subject to the disposal agency's rules. (See §§ 102-75.335 and 102-75.985.)

# Submission of Offers To Purchase or Lease
§ 102-75.330
What form must all offers to purchase or lease be in?
All offers to purchase or lease must be in writing, accompanied by any required earnest money deposit, using the form prescribed by the disposal agency. In addition to the financial terms upon which the offer is predicated, the offer must set forth the willingness of the offeror to abide by the terms, conditions, reservations, and restrictions upon which the property is offered, and must contain such other information as the disposal agency may request.

# Provisions Relating to Asbestos
§ 102-75.335
Where asbestos is identified, what information must the disposal agency incorporate into the offer to purchase and the conveyance document?
Where the existence of asbestos on the property has been brought to the attention of the disposal agency by the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118) information provided (see § 102-75.125), the disposal agency must incorporate this information (less any cost or time estimates to remove the asbestos-containing materials) into any offer to purchase and conveyance document and include the following wording:
Notice of the Presence of Asbestos—Warning!
(a) The Purchaser is warned that the property offered for sale contains asbestos-containing materials. Unprotected or unregulated exposures to asbestos in product manufacturing, shipyard, and building construction workplaces have been associated with asbestos-related diseases. Both the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulate asbestos because of the potential hazards associated with exposure to airborne asbestos fibers. Both OSHA and EPA have determined that such exposure increases the risk of asbestos-related diseases, which include certain cancers and which can result in disability or death.
(b) Bidders (offerors) are invited, urged and cautioned to inspect the property to be sold prior to submitting a bid (offer). More particularly, bidders (offerors) are invited, urged and cautioned to inspect the property as to its asbestos content and condition and any hazardous or environmental conditions relating thereto. The disposal agency will assist bidders (offerors) in obtaining any authorization(s) that may be required in order to carry out any such inspection(s). Bidders (offerors) shall be deemed to have relied solely on their own judgment in assessing the overall condition of all or any portion of the property including, without limitation, any asbestos hazards or concerns.
(c) No warranties either express or implied are given with regard to the condition of the property including, without limitation, whether the property does or does not contain asbestos or is or is not safe for a particular purpose. The failure of any bidder (offeror) to inspect, or to be fully informed as to the condition of all or any portion of the property offered, will not constitute grounds for any claim or demand for adjustment or withdrawal of a bid or offer after its opening or tender.
(d) The description of the property set forth in the Invitation for Bids (Offer to Purchase) and any other information provided therein with respect to said property is based on the best information available to the disposal agency and is believed to be correct, but an error or omission, including, but not limited to, the omission of any information available to the agency having custody over the property and/or any other Federal agency, shall not constitute grounds or reason for nonperformance of the contract of sale, or any claim by the Purchaser against the Government including, without limitation, any claim for allowance, refund, or deduction from the purchase price.
(e) The Government assumes no liability for damages for personal injury, illness, disability, or death, to the Purchaser, or to the Purchaser's successors, assigns, employees, invitees, or any other person subject to Purchaser's control or direction, or to any other person, including members of the general public, arising from or incident to the purchase, transportation, removal, handling, use, disposition, or other activity causing or leading to contact of any kind whatsoever with asbestos on the property that is the subject of this sale, whether the Purchaser, its successors or assigns has or have properly warned or failed properly to warn the individual(s) injured.
(f) The Purchaser further agrees that, in its use and occupancy of the property, it will comply with all Federal, State, and local laws relating to asbestos.

# Provisions Relating to Hazardous Substance Activity
§ 102-75.340
Where hazardous substance activity has been identified on property proposed for disposal, what information must the disposal agency incorporate into the offer to purchase and the conveyance document?
Where the existence of hazardous substance activity has been brought to the attention of the disposal agency by the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118) information provided (see §§ 102-75.125 and 102-75.130), the disposal agency must incorporate this information into any offer to purchase and conveyance document. In any offer to purchase and conveyance document, disposal agencies, generally, must also address the following (specific recommended language that addresses the following issues can be found in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal):
(a) Notice of all hazardous substance activity identified as a result of a complete search of agency records by the landholding agency.
(b) A statement, certified by a responsible landholding agency official in the Report of Excess Real Property, that all remedial actions necessary to protect human health and the environment with regard to such hazardous substance activity have been taken (this is not required in the offer to purchase or conveyance document in the case of a transfer of property under the authority of section 120(h)(3)(C) of CERCLA, or the Early Transfer Authority, or a conveyance to a “potentially responsible party”, as defined by CERCLA (see 102-75.345)).
(c) A commitment, on behalf of the United States, to return to correct any hazardous condition discovered after the conveyance that results from hazardous substance activity prior to the date of conveyance.
(d) A reservation by the United States of a right of access in order to accomplish any further remedial actions required in the future.
§ 102-75.345
What is different about the statements in the offer to purchase and conveyance document if the sale is to a potentially responsible party with respect to the hazardous substance activity?
In the case where the purchaser or grantee is a potentially responsible party (PRP) with respect to hazardous substance activity on the property under consideration, the United States is no longer under a general obligation to certify that the property has been successfully remediated, or to commit to return to the property to address contamination that is discovered in the future. Therefore, the statements of responsibility and commitments on behalf of the United States referenced in § 102-75.340 should not be used. Instead, language should be included in the offer to purchase and conveyance document that is consistent with any agreement that has been reached between the landholding agency and the PRP with regard to prior hazardous substance activity.

# Public Benefit Conveyances
§ 102-75.350
What are disposal agencies' responsibilities concerning public benefit conveyances?
Based on a highest and best use analysis, disposal agencies may make surplus real property available to State and local governments and certain non-profit institutions or organizations at up to 100 percent public benefit discount for public benefit purposes. Some examples of such purposes are education, health, park and recreation, the homeless, historic monuments, public airports, highways, correctional facilities, ports, and wildlife conservation. The implementing regulations for these conveyances are found in this subpart.
§ 102-75.351
May the disposal agency waive screening for public benefit conveyances?
All properties, consistent with the highest and best use analysis, will normally be screened for public benefit uses. However, the disposal agency may waive public benefit screening, with the exception of the mandatory McKinney-Vento homeless screening,
for specific property disposal considerations, e.g., when a property has been reported excess for exchange purposes.
§ 102-75.355
What clause must be in the offer to purchase and the conveyance documents for public benefit conveyances?
Executive agencies must include in the offer to purchase and conveyance documents the non-discrimination clause in § 102-75.360 for public benefit conveyances.
§ 102-75.360
What wording must be in the non-discrimination clause that is required in the offer to purchase and in the conveyance document?
The wording of the non-discrimination clause must be as follows:
The Grantee covenants for itself, its heirs, successors, and assigns and every successor in interest to the property hereby conveyed, or any part thereof, that the said Grantee and such heirs, successors, and assigns shall not discriminate upon the basis of race, creed, color, religion, sex, disability, age, or national origin in the use, occupancy, sale, or lease of the property, or in their employment practices conducted thereon. This covenant shall not apply, however, to the lease or rental of a room or rooms within a family dwelling unit; nor shall it apply with respect to religion to premises used primarily for religious purposes. The United States of America shall be deemed a beneficiary of this covenant without regard to whether it remains the owner of any land or interest therein in the locality of the property hereby conveyed and shall have the sole right to enforce this covenant in any court of competent jurisdiction.

# Power Transmission Lines
§ 102-75.365
Do disposal agencies have to notify State entities and Government agencies that a surplus power transmission line and right-of-way is available?
Yes, disposal agencies must notify State entities and Government agencies of the availability of a surplus power transmission line and right-of-way.
§ 102-75.370
May a State, or any political subdivision thereof, certify to a disposal agency that it needs a surplus power transmission line and the right-of-way acquired for its construction to meet the requirements of a public or cooperative power project?
Yes, section 13(d) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944 (50 U.S.C. App. 1622(d)) allows any State or political subdivision, or any State or Government agency or instrumentality to certify to the disposal agency that a surplus power transmission line and the right-of-way acquired for its construction is needed to meet the requirements of a public or cooperative power project.
§ 102-75.375
What happens once a State, or political subdivision, certifies that it needs a surplus power transmission line and the right-of-way acquired for its construction to meet the requirements of a public or cooperative power project?
Generally, once a State or political subdivision certifies that it needs a surplus power transmission line and the right-of-way, the disposal agency may sell the property to the state, or political subdivision thereof, at the fair market value. However, if a sale of a surplus transmission line cannot be accomplished because of the price to be charged, or other reasons, and the certification by the State or political subdivision is not withdrawn, the disposal agency must report the facts involved to the Administrator of General Services, to determine what further action will or should be taken to dispose of the property.
§ 102-75.380
May power transmission lines and rights-of-way be disposed of in other ways?
Yes, power transmission lines and rights-of-way not disposed of by sale for fair market value may be disposed of following other applicable provisions of this part, including, if appropriate, reclassification by the disposal agency.

# Property for Public Airports
§ 102-75.385
Do disposal agencies have the responsibility to notify eligible public agencies that airport property has been determined to be surplus?
Yes, the disposal agency must notify eligible public agencies that property currently used as or suitable for use as a public airport under the Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended, has been determined to be surplus. A copy of the landholding agency's Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118, with accompanying schedules) must be transmitted with the copy of the surplus property notice sent to the appropriate regional office of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The FAA must furnish an application form and instructions for the preparation of an application to eligible public agencies upon request.
§ 102-75.390
What does the term “surplus airport property” mean?
For the purposes of this part, surplus airport property is any surplus real property including improvements and personal property included as a part of the operating unit that the Administrator of FAA deems is—
(a) Essential, suitable, or desirable for the development, improvement, operation, or maintenance of a public airport, as defined in the Federal Airport Act, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1101); or
(b) Reasonably necessary to fulfill the immediate and foreseeable future requirements of the grantee for the development, improvement, operation, or maintenance of a public airport, including property needed to develop sources of revenue from non-aviation businesses at a public airport. Approval for non-aviation revenue-producing areas may only be given for such areas as are anticipated to generate net proceeds that do not exceed expected deficits for operation of the aviation area applied for at the airport.
§ 102-75.395
May surplus airport property be conveyed or disposed of to a State, political subdivision, municipality, or tax-supported institution for a public airport?
Yes, section 13(g) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944 (49 U.S.C. § 47151) authorizes the disposal agency to convey or dispose of surplus airport property to a State, political subdivision, municipality, or tax-supported institution for use as a public airport.
§ 102-75.400
Is industrial property located on an airport also considered to be “airport property”?
No, if the Administrator of General Services determines that a property's highest and best use is industrial, then the property must be classified as such for disposal without regard to the public benefit conveyance provisions of this subpart.
§ 102-75.405
What responsibilities does the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) have after receiving a copy of the notice (and a copy of the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118)) given to eligible public agencies that there is surplus airport property?
As soon as possible after receiving the copy of the surplus notice, the FAA must inform the disposal agency of its determination. Then, the FAA must provide assistance to any eligible public agency known to have a need for the property for a public airport, so that the public agency may develop a comprehensive and coordinated plan of use and procurement for the property.
§ 102-75.410
What action must the disposal agency take after an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use and application to acquire property for a public airport?
After an eligible public agency submits a plan of use and application, the disposal agency must transmit two copies of the plan and two copies of the application to the appropriate FAA regional office. The FAA must promptly submit a recommendation to the disposal agency for disposal of the property for a public airport or must inform the disposal agency that no such recommendation will be submitted.
§ 102-75.415
What happens after the disposal agency receives the FAA's recommendation for disposal of the property for a public airport?
The head of the disposal agency, or his or her designee, may convey property approved by the FAA for use as a public airport to the eligible public
agency, subject to the provisions of the Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended.
§ 102-75.420
What happens if the FAA informs the disposal agency that it does not recommend disposal of the property for a public airport?
Any airport property that the FAA does not recommend for disposal as a public airport must be disposed of in accordance with other applicable provisions of this part. However, the disposal agency must first notify the landholding agency of its inability to dispose of the property for use as a public airport. In addition, the disposal agency must allow the landholding agency 30 days to withdraw the property from surplus or to waive any future interest in the property for public airport use.
§ 102-75.425
Who has sole responsibility for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of disposal for property disposed of for use as a public airport?
The Administrator of the FAA has the sole responsibility for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of disposals to be used as a public airport. The FAA is also responsible for reforming, correcting, or amending any disposal instruments; granting releases; and any action necessary for recapturing the property, using the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 47101
et seq.
§ 102-75.430
What happens if property conveyed for use as a public airport is revested in the United States?
If property that was conveyed for use as a public airport is revested in the United States for noncompliance with the terms of the disposal, or other cause, the Administrator of the FAA must be accountable for the property and must report the property to GSA as excess property following the provisions of this part.
§ 102-75.435
Does the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970, as amended (Airport Act of 1970), apply to the transfer of airports to State and local agencies?
No, the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970, as amended (49 U.S.C. 47101-47131) (Airport Act of 1970), does not apply to the transfer of airports to State and local agencies. The transfer of airports to State and local agencies may be made only under section 13(g) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944 (49 U.S.C. 47151-47153). Only property that the landholding agency determines cannot be reported excess to GSA for disposal under Title 40, but nevertheless may be made available for use by a State or local public body as a public airport without being inconsistent with the Federal program of the landholding agency, may be conveyed under the Airport Act of 1970. In the latter instance, the Airport Act of 1970 may be used to transfer non-excess land for airport development purposes provided it does not constitute an entire airport. An entire, existing and established airport can only be disposed of to a State or eligible local government under section 13(g) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944.

# Property for Use as Historic Monuments
§ 102-75.440
Who must disposal agencies notify that surplus property is available for historic monument use?
Disposal agencies must notify State and area wide clearinghouses and eligible public agencies that property that may be conveyed for use as a historic monument has been determined to be surplus. A copy of the landholding agency's Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118) with accompanying schedules must be transmitted with the copy of each notice that is sent to the appropriate regional or field offices of the National Park Service (NPS) of the Department of the Interior (DOI).
§ 102-75.445
Who can convey surplus real and related personal property for historic monument use?
A disposal agency may convey surplus real and related personal property for use as a historic monument, without monetary consideration, to any State, political subdivision, instrumentality thereof, or municipality, for the benefit of the public, provided the Secretary of the Interior has determined that the property is suitable and desirable for such use.
§ 102-75.450
What type of property is suitable or desirable for use as a historic monument?
Only property conforming with the recommendation of the Advisory Board on National Parks, Historic Sites, Buildings, and Monuments shall be determined to be suitable or desirable for use as a historic monument.
§ 102-75.455
May historic monuments be used for revenue-producing activities?
The disposal agency may authorize the use of historic monuments conveyed under 40 U.S.C. 550(h) or the Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended, for revenue-producing activities, if the Secretary of the Interior—
(a) Determines that the activities, described in the applicant's proposed program of use, are compatible with the use of the property for historic monument purposes;
(b) Approves the grantee's plan for repair, rehabilitation, restoration, and maintenance of the property;
(c) Approves the grantee's plan for financing the repair, rehabilitation, restoration, and maintenance of the property. DOI must not approve the plan unless it provides that all income in excess of costs of repair, rehabilitation, restoration, maintenance, and a specified reasonable profit or payment that may accrue to a lessor, sublessor, or developer in connection with the management, operation, or development of the property for revenue producing activities, is used by the grantee, lessor, sublessor, or developer, only for public historic preservation, park, or recreational purposes; and
(d) Examines and approves the grantee's accounting and financial procedures for recording and reporting on revenue-producing activities.
§ 102-75.460
What information must disposal agencies furnish eligible public agencies?
Upon request, the disposal agency must furnish eligible public agencies with adequate preliminary property information and, with the landholding agency's cooperation, provide assistance to enable public agencies to obtain adequate property information.
§ 102-75.465
What information must eligible public agencies interested in acquiring real property for use as a historic monument submit to the appropriate regional or field offices of the National Park Service (NPS) of the Department of the Interior (DOI)?
Eligible public agencies must submit the original and two copies of the completed application to acquire real property for use as a historic monument to the appropriate regional or field offices of NPS, which will forward one copy of the application to the appropriate regional office of the disposal agency.
§ 102-75.470
What action must NPS take after an eligible public agency has submitted an application for conveyance of surplus property for use as a historic monument?
NPS must promptly—
(a) Submit the Secretary of the Interior's determination to the disposal agency; or
(b) Inform the disposal agency that no such recommendation will be submitted.
§ 102-75.475
What happens after the disposal agency receives the Secretary of the Interior's determination for disposal of the surplus property for a historic monument and compatible revenue-producing activities?
The head of the disposal agency or his or her designee may convey to an eligible public agency surplus property determined by the Secretary of the Interior to be suitable and desirable for use as a historic monument for the benefit of the public and for compatible revenue-producing activities subject to the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 550(h).
§ 102-75.480
Who has the responsibility for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of disposal for surplus property conveyed for use as a historic monument?
The Secretary of the Interior has the responsibility for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of such a disposal. DOI is also responsible for reforming, correcting, or amending any disposal instrument; granting releases; and any action necessary for recapturing the property using the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 550(b). The actions
are subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency.
§ 102-75.485
What happens if property that was conveyed for use as a historic monument is revested in the United States?
In such a case, DOI must notify the appropriate GSA Public Buildings Service (PBS) Regional Office immediately by letter when title to the historic property is to be revested in the United States for noncompliance with the terms and conditions of disposal or for other cause. The notification must cite the legal and administrative actions that DOI must take to obtain full title and possession of the property. In addition, it must include an adequate description of the property, including any improvements constructed since the original conveyance to the grantee. After receiving a statement from DOI that title to the property is proposed for revesting, GSA will review the statement and determine if title should be revested. If GSA, in consultation with DOI, determines that the property should be revested, DOI must submit a Report of Excess Real Property, Standard Form 118 to GSA. GSA will review and act upon the Standard Form 118, if acceptable. However, the grantee must provide protection and maintenance of the property until the title reverts to the Federal Government, including the period of the notice of intent to revert. Such protection and maintenance must, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.

# Property for Educational and Public Health Purposes
§ 102-75.490
Who must notify eligible public agencies that surplus real property for educational and public health purposes is available?
The disposal agency must notify eligible public agencies that surplus property is available for educational and/or public health purposes. The notice must require that any plans for an educational or public health use, resulting from the development of the comprehensive and coordinated plan of use and procurement for the property, must be coordinated with the Department of Education (ED) or the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), as appropriate. The notice must also let eligible public agencies know where to obtain the applications, instructions for preparing them, and where to submit the application. The requirement for educational or public health use of the property by an eligible public agency is contingent upon the disposal agency's approval, under § 102-75.515, of a recommendation for assignment of Federal surplus real property received from ED or HHS. Further, any subsequent transfer is subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency as stipulated under 40 U.S.C. 550(c) or (d) and referenced in § 102-75.535.
§ 102-75.495
May the Department of Education (ED) or the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) notify nonprofit organizations that surplus real property and related personal property is available for educational and public health purposes?
Yes, ED or HHS may notify eligible non-profit institutions that such property has been determined to be surplus. Notices to eligible non-profit institutions must require eligible non-profit institutions to coordinate any request for educational or public health use of the property with the appropriate public agency responsible for developing and submitting a comprehensive and coordinated plan of use and procurement for the property.
§ 102-75.500
Which Federal agencies may the head of the disposal agency (or his or her designee) assign for disposal surplus real property to be used for educational and public health purposes?
The head of the disposal agency or his designee may—
(a) Assign to the Secretary of ED for disposal under 40 U.S.C. 550(c) surplus real property, including buildings, fixtures, and equipment, as recommended by the Secretary as being needed for school, classroom, or other educational use; or
(b) Assign to the Secretary of HHS for disposal under 40 U.S.C. 550 (d) such surplus real property, including buildings, fixtures, and equipment situated
thereon, as recommended by the Secretary as being needed for use in the protection of public health, including research.
§ 102-75.505
Is the request for educational or public health use of a property by an eligible nonprofit institution contingent upon the disposal agency's approval?
Yes, eligible non-profit organizations will only receive surplus real property for an educational or public health use if the disposal agency approves or grants the assignment request from either ED or HHS. The disposal agency will also consider other uses for available surplus real property, taking into account the highest and best use determination. Any subsequent transfer is subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency as stipulated under 40 U.S.C. 550(c) or (d) and referenced in this part.
§ 102-75.510
When must the Department of Education and the Department of Health and Human Services notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
ED and HHS must notify the disposal agency if it has an eligible applicant interested in acquiring the property within 30 calendar days after the date of the surplus notice. Then, after the 30-day period expires, ED or HHS has 30 calendar days to review and approve an application and request assignment of the property, or inform the disposal agency that no assignment request will be forthcoming.
§ 102-75.515
What action must the disposal agency take after an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use for property for an educational or public health requirement?
When an eligible public agency submits a plan of use for property for an educational or public health requirement, the disposal agency must transmit two copies of the plan to the regional office of ED or HHS, as appropriate. The ED or HHS must submit to the disposal agency, within 30 calendar days after the date the plan is transmitted, a recommendation for assignment of the property to the Secretary of ED or HHS, as appropriate, or must inform the disposal agency, within the 30-calendar day period, that a recommendation will not be made for assignment of the property to ED or HHS. If, after considering other uses for the property, the disposal agency approves the assignment recommendation from ED or HHS, it must assign the property by letter or other document to the Secretary of ED or HHS, as appropriate. The disposal agency must furnish to the landholding agency a copy of the assignment, unless the landholding agency is also the disposal agency. If the recommendation is disapproved, the disposal agency must likewise notify the appropriate Department.
§ 102-75.520
What must the Department of Education or the Department of Health and Human Services address in the assignment recommendation that is submitted to the disposal agency?
Any assignment recommendation that ED or HHS submits to the disposal agency must provide complete information concerning the educational or public health use, including—
(a) Identification of the property;
(b) The name of the applicant and the size and nature of its program;
(c) The specific use planned;
(d) The intended public benefit allowance;
(e) The estimate of the value upon which such proposed allowance is based; and
(f) An explanation if the acreage or value of the property exceeds the standards established by the Secretary.
§ 102-75.525
What responsibilities do landholding agencies have concerning properties to be used for educational and public health purposes?
Landholding agencies must cooperate to the fullest extent possible with representatives of ED or HHS in their inspection of such property and in furnishing information relating to the property.
§ 102-75.530
What happens if the Department of Education or the Department of Health and Human Services does not approve any applications for conveyance of the property for educational or public health purposes?
In the absence of an approved application from ED or HHS to convey the property for educational or public health purposes, which must be received within the 30 calendar day time limit, the disposal agency will proceed with other disposal actions.
§ 102-75.535
What responsibilities does the Department of Education or the Department of Health and Human Services have after receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter?
After receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter, ED or HHS must furnish the disposal agency with a Notice of Proposed Transfer within 30 calendar days. If the disposal agency approves the proposed transfer within 30 days of receiving the Notice of Proposed Transfer, ED or HHS may prepare the transfer documents and proceed with the transfer. ED or HHS must take all necessary actions to accomplish the transfer within 15-calendar days beginning when the disposal agency approves the transfer. ED or HHS must furnish the disposal agency two conformed copies of deeds, leases or other instruments conveying the property under 40 U.S.C. 550(c) or (d) and all related documents containing restrictions or conditions regulating the future use, maintenance or transfer of the property.
§ 102-75.540
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the transfer for educational or public health purposes?
ED or HHS, as appropriate, is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of transfer. ED or HHS is also responsible for reforming, correcting, or amending any transfer instruments; granting releases; and for taking any necessary actions for recapturing the property using or following the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 550(b). These actions are subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency. ED or HHS must notify the disposal agency of its intent to take any actions to recapture the property. The notice must identify the property affected, describe in detail the proposed action, and state the reasons for the proposed action.
§ 102-75.545
What happens if property that was transferred to meet an educational or public health requirement is revested in the United States for noncompliance with the terms of sale, or other cause?
In each case of repossession under a terminated lease or reversion of title for noncompliance with the terms or conditions of sale or other cause, ED or HHS must, prior to repossession or reversion of title, provide the appropriate GSA regional property disposal office with an accurate description of the real and related personal property involved using the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118), and the appropriate schedules. After receiving a statement from ED or HHS that the property is proposed for revesting, GSA will review the statement and determine if title should be revested. If GSA, in conjunction with ED or HHS, determines that the property should be revested, ED or HHS must submit a Standard Form 118 to GSA. GSA will review and act upon the Standard Form 118, if acceptable. However, the grantee must provide protection and maintenance for the property until the title reverts to the Federal Government, including the period of any notice of intent to revert. Such protection and maintenance must, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.

# Property for Providing Self-Help Housing or Housing Assistance
§ 102-75.550
What does “self-help housing or housing assistance” mean?
Property for self-help housing or housing assistance (which is separate from the program under Title V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act covered in subpart H of this part) is property for low-income housing opportunities through the construction, rehabilitation, or refurbishment of housing, under terms that require that—
(a) Any individual or family receiving housing or housing assistance must contribute a significant amount of labor toward the construction, rehabilitation, or refurbishment; and
(b) Dwellings constructed, rehabilitated, or refurbished must be quality dwellings that comply with local building and safety codes and standards and must be available at prices below prevailing market prices.
§ 102-75.555
Which Federal agency receives the property assigned for self-help housing or housing assistance for low-income individuals or families?
The head of the disposal agency, or designee, may assign, at his/her discretion, surplus real property, including buildings, fixtures, and equipment to the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
§ 102-75.560
Who notifies eligible public agencies that real property to be used for self-help housing or housing assistance purposes is available?
The disposal agency must notify eligible public agencies that surplus property is available. The notice must require that any plans for self-help housing or housing assistance use resulting from the development of the comprehensive and coordinated plan of use and procurement for the property must be coordinated with HUD. Eligible public agencies may obtain an application form and instructions for preparing and submitting the application from HUD.
§ 102-75.565
Is the requirement for self-help housing or housing assistance use of the property by an eligible public agency or non-profit organization contingent upon the disposal agency's approval of an assignment recommendation from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)?
Yes, the requirement for self-help housing or housing assistance use of the property by an eligible public agency or nonprofit organization is contingent upon the disposal agency's approval under § 102-75.585 of HUD's assignment recommendation/request. Any subsequent transfer is subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency as stipulated under 40 U.S.C. 550(f) and referenced in § 102-75.605.
§ 102-75.570
What happens if the disposal agency does not approve the assignment recommendation?
If the recommendation is not approved, the disposal agency must also notify the Secretary of HUD and then may proceed with other disposal action.
§ 102-75.575
Who notifies non-profit organizations that surplus real property and related personal property to be used for self-help housing or housing assistance purposes is available?
HUD notifies eligible non-profit organizations, following guidance in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal. Such notices must require eligible nonprofit organizations to—
(a) Coordinate any requirement for self-help housing or housing assistance use of the property with the appropriate public agency; and
(b) Declare to the disposal agency an intent to develop and submit a comprehensive and coordinated plan of use and procurement for the property.
§ 102-75.580
When must HUD notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
HUD must notify the disposal agency within 30 calendar days after the date of the surplus notice. Then, after the 30-day period expires, HUD has 30 calendar days to review and approve an application and request assignment or inform the disposal agency that no assignment request is forthcoming.
§ 102-75.585
What action must the disposal agency take after an eligible public agency has submitted a plan of use for property for a self-help housing or housing assistance requirement?
When an eligible public agency submits a plan of use for property for a self-help housing or housing assistance requirement, the disposal agency must transmit two copies of the plan to the appropriate HUD regional office. HUD must submit to the disposal agency, within 30 calendar days after the date
the plan is transmitted, a recommendation for assignment of the property to the Secretary of HUD, or must inform the disposal agency, within the 30-calendar day period, that a recommendation will not be made for assignment of the property to HUD. If, after considering other uses for the property, the disposal agency approves the assignment recommendation from HUD, it must assign the property by letter or other document to the Secretary of HUD. The disposal agency must furnish to the landholding agency a copy of the assignment, unless the landholding agency is also the disposal agency. If the disposal agency disapproves the recommendation, the disposal agency must likewise notify the Secretary of HUD.
§ 102-75.590
What does the assignment recommendation contain?
Any assignment recommendation that HUD submits to the disposal agency must set forth complete information concerning the self-help housing or housing assistance use, including—
(a) Identification of the property;
(b) Name of the applicant and the size and nature of its program;
(c) Specific use planned;
(d) Intended public benefit allowance;
(e) Estimate of the value upon which such proposed allowance is based; and
(f) An explanation, if the acreage or value of the property exceeds the standards established by the Secretary.
§ 102-75.595
What responsibilities do landholding agencies have concerning properties to be used for self-help housing or housing assistance use?
Landholding agencies must cooperate to the fullest extent possible with HUD representatives in their inspection of such property and in furnishing information relating to such property.
§ 102-75.600
What happens if HUD does not approve any applications for self-help housing or housing assistance use?
In the absence of an approved application from HUD for self-help housing or housing assistance use, which must be received within the 30-calendar day time limit specified therein, the disposal agency must proceed with other disposal action.
§ 102-75.605
What responsibilities does HUD have after receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter?
After receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter, HUD must furnish the disposal agency with a Notice of Proposed Transfer within 30 calendar days. If the disposal agency approves the proposed transfer within 30 calendar days of receiving the Notice of Proposed Transfer, HUD may prepare the transfer documents and proceed with the transfer. HUD must take all necessary actions to accomplish the transfer within 15 calendar days beginning when the disposal agency approves the transfer. HUD must furnish the disposal agency two conformed copies of deeds, leases or other instruments conveying the property under 40 U.S.C. 550(f) and all related documents containing restrictions or conditions regulating the future use, maintenance or transfer of the property.
§ 102-75.610
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the transfer of the property for self-help housing or housing assistance use?
HUD is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of transfer. HUD is also responsible for reforming, correcting, or amending any transfer instrument; granting releases; and for taking any necessary actions for recapturing the property using the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 550(b). These actions are subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency. HUD must notify the head of the disposal agency of its intent to take action to recapture the property. The notice must identify the property affected, describe in detail the proposed action, and state the reasons for the proposed action.
§ 102-75.615
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of property transferred under section 414(a) of the 1969 HUD Act?
HUD maintains responsibility for properties previously conveyed under section 414(a) of the 1969 HUD Act. Property transferred to an entity other
than a public body and used for any purpose other than that for which it was sold or leased within a 30-year period must revert to the United States. If the property was leased, then the lease terminates. The appropriate Secretary (HUD or Department of Agriculture) and the Administrator of GSA can approve the new use of the property after the first 20 years of the original 30-year period has expired.
§ 102-75.620
What happens if property that was transferred to meet a self-help housing or housing assistance use requirement is found to be in noncompliance with the terms of sale?
In each case of repossession under a terminated lease or reversion of title for noncompliance with the terms or conditions of sale or other cause, HUD (or USDA for property conveyed through the former Farmers Home Administration program under section 414(a) of the 1969 HUD Act) must, prior to repossession or reversion of title, provide the appropriate GSA regional office with an accurate description of the real and related personal property involved using the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118), and the appropriate schedules. After receiving a statement from HUD (or USDA) that title to the property is proposed for revesting, GSA will review the statement and determine if title should be revested. If GSA, in conjunction with HUD (or USDA), determines that the property should be revested, HUD (or USDA) must submit a Standard Form 118 to GSA. GSA will review and act upon the Standard Form 118, if acceptable. However, the grantee must provide protection and maintenance for the property until the title reverts to the Federal Government, including the period of any notice of intent to revert. Such protection and maintenance must, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.

# Property for Use as Public Park or Recreation Areas
§ 102-75.625
Which Federal agency is assigned surplus real property for public park or recreation purposes?
The head of the disposal agency or his or her designee is authorized to assign to the Secretary of the Interior for disposal under 40 U.S.C. 550(e), surplus real property, including buildings, fixtures, and equipment as recommended by the Secretary as being needed for use as a public park or recreation area for conveyance to a State, political subdivision, instrumentalities, or municipality.
§ 102-75.630
Who must disposal agencies notify that real property for public park or recreation purposes is available?
The disposal agency must notify established State, regional, or metropolitan clearinghouses and eligible public agencies that surplus property is available for use as a public park or recreation area. The disposal agency must transmit the landholding agency's Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118, with accompanying schedules) with the copy of each notice sent to a regional or field office of the National Park Service (NPS) of the Department of the Interior (DOI).
§ 102-75.635
What information must the Department of the Interior (DOI) furnish eligible public agencies?
Upon request, DOI must furnish eligible public agencies with an application form to acquire property for permanent use as a public park or recreation area and preparation instructions for the application.
§ 102-75.640
When must DOI notify the disposal agency that an eligible applicant is interested in acquiring the property?
DOI must notify the disposal agency if it has an eligible applicant interested in acquiring the property within 30 calendar days from the date of the surplus notice.
§ 102-75.645
What responsibilities do landholding agencies have concerning properties to be used for public park or recreation purposes?
Landholding agencies must cooperate to the fullest extent possible with DOI representatives in their inspection of the property and in furnishing information relating to the property.
§ 102-75.650
When must DOI request assignment of the property?
Within 30 calendar days after the expiration of the 30-calendar day period specified in § 102-75.640, DOI must submit to the disposal agency an assignment recommendation along with a copy of the application or inform the disposal agency that a recommendation will not be made for assignment of the property.
§ 102-75.655
What does the assignment recommendation contain?
Any recommendation submitted by DOI must provide complete information concerning the plans for use of the property as a public park or recreation area, including—
(a) Identification of the property;
(b) The name of the applicant;
(c) The specific use planned; and
(d) The intended public benefit allowance.
§ 102-75.660
What happens if DOI does not approve any applications or does not submit an assignment recommendation?
If DOI does not approve any applications or does not submit an assignment recommendation to convey the property for public park or recreation purposes, the disposal agency must proceed with other disposal action.
§ 102-75.665
What happens after the disposal agency receives the assignment recommendation from DOI?
If, after considering other uses for the property, the disposal agency approves the assignment recommendation from DOI, it must assign the property by letter or other document to the Secretary of the Interior. The disposal agency must furnish to the landholding agency a copy of the assignment, unless the landholding agency is also the disposal agency. If the recommendation is disapproved, the disposal agency must likewise notify the Secretary.
§ 102-75.670
What responsibilities does DOI have after receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter?
After receiving the disposal agency's assignment letter, the Secretary of the Interior must provide the disposal agency with a Notice of Proposed Transfer within 30 calendar days. If the disposal agency approves the proposed transfer within 30 calendar days, the Secretary may proceed with the transfer. DOI must take all necessary actions to accomplish the transfer within 15 calendar days after the expiration of the 30-calendar day period provided for the disposal agency to consider the notice. DOI may place the applicant in possession of the property as soon as practicable to minimize the Government's expense of protection and maintenance of the property. As of the date the applicant takes possession of the property, or the date it is conveyed, whichever occurs first, the applicant must assume responsibility for care and handling and all risks of loss or damage to the property, and has all obligations and liabilities of ownership. DOI must furnish the disposal agency two conformed copies of deeds, leases, or other instruments conveying property under 40 U.S.C. 550(e) and related documents containing reservations, restrictions, or conditions regulating the future use, maintenance or transfer of the property.
§ 102-75.675
What responsibilities does the grantee or recipient of the property have in accomplishing or completing the transfer?
Where appropriate, the disposal agency may make the assignment subject to DOI requiring the grantee or recipient to bear the cost of any out-of-pocket expenses necessary to accomplish the transfer, such as for surveys, fencing, security of the remaining property, or otherwise.
§ 102-75.680
What information must be included in the deed of conveyance of any surplus property transferred for public park or recreation purposes?
The deed of conveyance of any surplus real property transferred for public park and recreation purposes under 40 U.S.C. 550(e) must require that the property be used and maintained for the purpose for which it was conveyed in perpetuity. In the event that the property ceases to be used or maintained for that purpose, all or any portion of such property will in its existing condition, at the option of the United States, revert to the United States. The deed of conveyance may contain additional terms, reservations, restrictions, and conditions determined by the Secretary of the Interior to be necessary to safeguard the interests of the United States.
§ 102-75.685
Who is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of the transfer of property used for public park or recreation purposes?
The Secretary of the Interior is responsible for enforcing compliance with the terms and conditions of transfer. The Secretary of the Interior is also responsible for reforming, correcting, or amending any transfer instrument; granting releases; and for recapturing any property following the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 550(b). These actions are subject to the approval of the head of the disposal agency. DOI must notify the head of the disposal agency of its intent to take or recapture the property. The notice must identify the property affected and describe in detail the proposed action, including the reasons for the proposed action.
§ 102-75.690
What happens if property that was transferred for use as a public park or recreation area is revested in the United States by reason of noncompliance with the terms or conditions of disposal, or for other cause?
DOI must notify the appropriate GSA regional office immediately by letter when title to property transferred for use as a public park or recreation area is to be revested in the United States for noncompliance with the terms or conditions of disposal or for other cause. The notification must cite the legal and administrative actions that DOI must take to obtain full title and possession of the property. In addition, it must include an adequate description of the property, using the Report of Excess Real Property (Standard Form 118) and the appropriate schedules. After receiving notice from DOI that title to the property is proposed for revesting, GSA will review the statement and determine if title should be revested. If GSA, in consultation with DOI, determines that the property should be revested, DOI must submit a Standard Form 118 to GSA. GSA will review and act upon the Standard Form 118, if acceptable. However, the grantee must provide protection and maintenance for the property until the title reverts to the Federal Government, including the period of any notice of intent to revert. Such protection and maintenance must, at a minimum, conform to the standards prescribed in the GSA Customer Guide to Real Property Disposal.

# Property for Displaced Persons
§ 102-75.695
Who can receive surplus real property for the purpose of providing replacement housing for persons who are to be displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects?
Section 218 of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4638 (the Relocation Act), authorizes the disposal agency to transfer surplus real property to a State agency to provide replacement housing under title II of the Relocation Act for persons who are or will be displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects.
§ 102-75.700
Which Federal agencies may solicit applications from eligible State agencies interested in acquiring the property to provide replacement housing for persons being displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects?
After receiving the surplus notice, any Federal agency needing property for replacement housing for displaced
persons may solicit applications from eligible State agencies.
§ 102-75.705
When must the Federal agency notify the disposal agency that an eligible State agency is interested in acquiring the property under section 218?
Federal agencies must notify the disposal agency within 30 calendar days after the date of the surplus notice, if an eligible State agency is interested in acquiring the property under section 218 of the Relocation Act.
§ 102-75.710
What responsibilities do landholding and disposal agencies have concerning properties used for providing replacement housing for persons who will be displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects?
Both landholding and disposal agencies must cooperate, to the fullest extent possible, with Federal and State agency representatives in their inspection of the property and in furnishing information relating to the property.
§ 102-75.715
When can a Federal agency request transfer of the property to the selected State agency?
Federal agencies must advise the disposal agency and request transfer of the property to the selected State agency within 30 calendar days after the expiration of the 30-calendar day period specified in § 102-75.705.
§ 102-75.720
Is there a specific or preferred format for the transfer request and who should receive it?
Any request submitted by a Federal agency must be in the form of a letter addressed to the appropriate GSA Public Buildings Service (PBS) regional property disposal office.
§ 102-75.725
What does the transfer request contain?
Any transfer request must include—
(a) Identification of the property by name, location, and control number;
(b) The name and address of the specific State agency and a copy of the State agency's application or proposal;
(c) A certification by the appropriate Federal agency official that the property is required to house displaced persons authorized by section 218; that all other options authorized under title II of the Relocation Act have been explored and replacement housing cannot be found or made available through those channels; and that the Federal or Federally assisted project cannot be accomplished unless the property is made available for replacement housing;
(d) Any special terms and conditions that the Federal agency deems necessary to include in conveyance instruments to ensure that the property is used for the intended purpose;
(e) The name and proposed location of the Federal or Federally assisted project that is creating the requirement;
(f) Purpose of the project;
(g) Citation of enabling legislation or authorization for the project, when appropriate;
(h) A detailed outline of steps taken to obtain replacement housing for displaced persons as authorized under title II of the Relocation Act; and
(i) Details of the arrangements that have been made to construct replacement housing on the surplus property and to ensure that displaced persons will be provided housing in the development.
§ 102-75.730
What happens if a Federal agency does not submit a transfer request to the disposal agency for property to be used for replacement housing for persons who will be displaced by Federal or Federally assisted projects?
If the disposal agency does not receive a request for assignment or transfer of the property under § 102-75.715, then the disposal agency must proceed with other appropriate disposal actions.
§ 102-75.735
What happens after the disposal agency receives the transfer request from the Federal agency?
