When the review board has completed the proceedings and has arrived at its decision, the proceedings, together with the review board's decision, will be transmitted to The Adjutant General for appropriate Department of the Army action. The Adjutant General, in the name of the President of the United States, will indicate on the record of such proceedings and decision the President's approval or disapproval of the action of the review board, and will perform such administerial acts as may be necessary and thereafter will notify the applicant and/or his counsel of the action taken. Written notice, specifying the action taken and the date thereof, will be transmitted by The Adjutant General to the president of the review board to be filed by the secretary as a part of the records of the board pertaining to each case.
(e)
Rehearings
—(1)
Policy on the granting of rehearings.
After the review board has reviewed a case and its findings and decision have been approved, the case will normally not be reconsidered except on the basis of new, pertinent, and material evidence, which if previously considered could reasonably be expected to have caused findings and a decision other than those rendered as the result of the original review. An application for rehearing must be made within a reasonable time after the discovery of the new evidence, mentioned in this subparagraph, and the request for rehearing must be accompanied by such new evidence and by a showing that the applicant was duly diligent in attempting to secure all available evidence for presentation to the review board when his case was previously reviewed and that the reason for the delay in discovering such new evidence was not due to fault or neglect on the part of the applicant.
(2)
Application for rehearing.
Any officer desiring a rehearing of his case will make a written application therefor on WD AGO Form 0413 (Application for Review of Findings of the Army Disability Review Board) which may be obtained from The Adjutant General, Washington, DC 20310, Attention: AGPO-S-D.
[13 FR 6805, Nov. 19, 1948, as amended at 19 FR 6706, Oct. 19, 1954]
§ 581.2
Army Discharge Review Board.
(a)
Purpose.
This regulation implements 10 U.S.C. 1553, Pub. L. 95-126, and DOD Directive 1332.28 (app. A).
(b)
Explanation of terms
—(1)
Legal consultant of the Army Discharge Review Board (ADRB).
An officer of The Judge Advocate General's Corps assigned to the ADRB to provide opinions and guidance on legal matters relating to ADRB functions.
(2)
Medical consultant of the ADRB.
An officer of the Army Medical Corps assigned to the ADRB to provide opinions and guidance on medical matters relating to ADRB functions.
(3)
Video tape hearing.
A hearing conducted by an ADRB hearing examiner at which an applicant is given the opportunity to present his/her appeal to the hearing examiner, with the entire presentation, including cross-examination by the hearing examiner, recorded on video tape. This video tape presentation is later displayed to a full ADRB panel. Video tape hearings will be conducted only with the consent of the applicant and with the concurrence of the President of the ADRB.
(c)
Composition and responsibilities
—(1)
Authority.
The ADRB is established under Pub. L. 95-126 and 10 U.S.C. 1553 and is responsible for the implementation of the Discharge Review Board (DRB) procedures and standards within DA.
(2)
The ADRB president.
The president is designated by the Secretary of the Army (SA). The President—
(i) Is responsible for the operation of the ADRB.
(ii) Prescribes the operating procedures of the ADRB.
(iii) Designates officers to sit on panels.
(iv) Schedules panels to hear discharge review appeals.
(v) Monitors the DOD directed responsibilities of the SA on service discharge review matters for the DOD.
(3)
ADRB panels and members.
The ADRB will have one or more panels. Each panel, when in deliberation, will consist of five officers. The senior officer (or as designated by the president ADRB) will act as the presiding officer.
(4)
Secretary Recorder (SR) Branch.
The Chief, SR—
(i) Ensures the efficient overall operation and support of the ADRB panels.
(ii) Authenticates the case report and directives of cases heard.
(5)
Secretary Recorder.
The SR is an officer assigned to the SR Branch whose duties are to—
(i) Schedule, coordinate, and arrange for panel hearings at a designated site.
(ii) Administer oaths to applicants and witnesses under Article 136 UCMJ.
(iii) Ensure that the proceedings of the cases heard and recorded into the case report and directive of cases.
(6)
Administrative Specialist.
An Administrative Specialist is an enlisted member assigned to the SR Branch whose duties are to—
(i) Assist the SR in arranging panel hearings.
(ii) Operate and maintain video and voice recording equipment.
(iii) Aid the SR in the administrative operations of the panels.
(7)
Administrative personnel.
Such administrative personnel as are required for the proper functions of the ADRB and its panels will be furnished by the SA.
(d)
Special standards.
(1) Under the November 27, 1979, order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in “Giles v. Secretary of the Army” (Civil Action No. 77-0904), a former Army service member is entitled to an honorable discharge if a less than honorable discharge was issued to the service member who was discharged before 1 January 1975 as a result of an administrative proceeding in which the Army introduced evidence developed by or as a direct or indirect result of compelled urinalysis testing administered for the purpose of identifying drug abusers (either for the purpose of entry into a treatment program or to monitor progress through rehabilitation or follow up).
(2) Applicants who believe they fall within the scope of paragraph (d)(1) of this section should place the work CATEGORY “G” in block 7, DD Form 293, (Application for Review of Discharge or Dismissal from the Armed Forces of the United States). Such applications will be reviewed expeditiously by a designated official who will either send the individual an honorable discharge certificate if the individual falls within the scope of paragraph (d)(1) of this section or forward the application to the ADRB if the individual does not fall within the scope of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The action of the designated official will not constitute an action or decision by the ADRB.
[50 FR 33035, Aug. 16, 1985]
§ 581.3
Army Board for Correction of Military Records.
(a)
General
—(1)
Purpose.
This section prescribes the policies and procedures for correction of military records by the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Army Board for Correction of Military Records (ABCMR).
(2)
Statutory authority.
Title 10 U.S.C Section 1552, Correction of Military Records: Claims Incident Thereto, is the statutory authority for this regulation.
(b)
Responsibilities
—(1)
The Secretary of the Army.
The Secretary of the Army will oversee the operations of the ABCMR. The Secretary will take final action on applications, as appropriate.
(2)
The ABCMR Director.
The ABCMR Director will manage the ABCMR's day-to-day operations.
(3)
The chair of an ABCMR panel.
The chair of a given ABCMR panel will preside over the panel, conduct a hearing, maintain order, ensure the applicant receives a full and fair opportunity to be heard, and certify the written record
of proceedings in pro forma and formal hearings as being true and correct.
(4)
The ABCMR members.
The ABCMR members will—
(i) Review all applications that are properly before them to determine the existence of error or injustice.
(ii) If persuaded that material error or injustice exists, and that sufficient evidence exists on the record, direct or recommend changes in military records to correct the error or injustice.
(iii) Recommend a hearing when appropriate in the interest of justice.
(iv) Deny applications when the alleged error or injustice is not adequately supported by the evidence, and when a hearing is not deemed proper.
(v) Deny applications when the application is not filed within prescribed time limits and when it is not in the interest of justice to excuse the failure to file in a timely manner.
(5)
The director of an Army records holding agency.
The director of an Army records holding agency will—
(i) Take appropriate action on routine issues that may be administratively corrected under authority inherent in the custodian of the records and that do not require ABCMR action.
(ii) Furnish all requested Army military records to the ABCMR.
(iii) Request additional information from the applicant, if needed, to assist the ABCMR in conducting a full and fair review of the matter.
(iv) Take corrective action directed by the ABCMR or the Secretary of the Army.
(v) Inform the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS), when appropriate; the applicant; applicant's counsel, if any; and interested Members of Congress, if any, after a correction is complete.
(vi) Return original records of the soldier or former soldier obtained from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
(6)
The commanders of Army Staff agencies and commands.
The commanders of Army Staff agencies and commands will—
(i) Furnish advisory opinions on matters within their areas of expertise upon request of the ABCMR, in a timely manner.
(ii) Obtain additional information or documentation as needed before providing the opinions to the ABCMR.
(iii) Provide records, investigations, information, and documentation upon request of the ABCMR.
(iv) Provide additional assistance upon request of the ABCMR.
(v) Take corrective action directed by the ABCMR or the Secretary of the Army.
(7)
The Director, Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS).
At the request of the ABCMR staff, the Director, DFAS, will—
(i) Furnish advisory opinions on matters within the DFAS area of expertise upon request.
(ii) Obtain additional information or documentation as needed before providing the opinions.
(iii) Provide financial records upon request.
(iv) On behalf of the Army, settle claims that are based on ABCMR final actions.
(v) Report quarterly to the ABCMR Director on the monies expended as a result of ABCMR action and the names of the payees.
(c)
ABCMR establishment and functions
—(1)
ABCMR establishment.
The ABCMR operates pursuant to law (10 U.S.C. 1552) within the Office of the Secretary of the Army. The ABCMR consists of civilians regularly employed in the executive part of the Department of the Army (DA) who are appointed by the Secretary of the Army and serve on the ABCMR as an additional duty. Three members constitute a quorum.
(2)
ABCMR functions.
(i) The ABCMR considers individual applications that are properly brought before it. In appropriate cases, it directs or recommends correction of military records to remove an error or injustice.
(ii) When an applicant has suffered reprisal under the Military Whistleblower Protection Act 10 U.S.C. 1034 and Department of Defense Directive (DODD) 7050.6, the ABCMR may recommend to the Secretary of the Army that disciplinary or administrative action be taken against any Army official who committed an act of reprisal against the applicant.
(iii) The ABCMR will decide cases on the evidence of record. It is not an investigative body. The ABCMR may, in its discretion, hold a hearing (sometimes referred to as an evidentiary hearing or an administrative hearing in 10 U.S.C. 1034 and DODD 7050.6) or request additional evidence or opinions.
(d)
Application procedures
—(1)
Who may apply.
(i) The ABCMR's jurisdiction under 10 U.S.C. 1552 extends to any military record of the DA. It is the nature of the record and the status of the applicant that define the ABCMR's jurisdiction.
(ii) Usually applicants are soldiers or former soldiers of the Active Army, the U.S. Army Reserve (USAR), and in certain cases, the Army National Guard of the United States (ARNGUS) and other military and civilian individuals affected by an Army military record. Requests are personal to the applicant and relate to military records. Requests are submitted on DD Form 149 (Application for Correction of Military Record under the Provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1552). Soldiers need not submit applications through their chain of command.
(iii) An applicant with a proper interest may request correction of another person's military records when that person is incapable of acting on his or her own behalf, missing, or deceased. Depending on the circumstances, a child, spouse, parent or other close relative, heir, or legal representative (such as a guardian or executor) of the soldier or former soldier may be able to demonstrate a proper interest. Applicants must send proof of proper interest with the application when requesting correction of another person's military records.
(2)
Time limits.
Applicants must file an application within 3 years after an alleged error or injustice is discovered or reasonably should have been discovered. The ABCMR may deny an untimely application. The ABCMR may excuse untimely filing in the interest of justice.
(3)
Administrative remedies.
The ABCMR will not consider an application until the applicant has exhausted all administrative remedies to correct the alleged error or injustice.
(4)
Stay of other proceedings.
Applying to the ABCMR does not stay other proceedings.
(5)
Counsel.
(i) Applicants may be represented by counsel, at their own expense.
(ii) See DODD 7050.6 for provisions for counsel in cases processed under 10 U.S.C. 1034.
(e)
Actions by the ABCMR Director and staff
—(1)
Criteria.
The ABCMR staff will review each application to determine if it meets the criteria for consideration by the ABCMR. The application may be returned without action if—
(i) The applicant fails to complete and sign the application.
(ii) The applicant has not exhausted all other administrative remedies.
(iii) The ABCMR does not have jurisdiction to grant the requested relief.
(iv) No new evidence was submitted with a request for reconsideration.
(2)
Burden of proof.
The ABCMR begins its consideration of each case with the presumption of administrative regularity. The applicant has the burden of proving an error or injustice by a preponderance of the evidence.
(3)
ABCMR consideration.
(i) A panel consisting of at least three ABCMR members will consider each application that is properly brought before it. One panel member will serve as the chair.
(ii) The panel members may consider a case on the merits in executive session or may authorize a hearing.
(iii) Each application will be reviewed to determine—
(A) Whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that an error or injustice exists and—
(
1
) If so, what relief is appropriate.
(
2
) If not, deny relief.
(B) Whether to authorize a hearing.
(C) If the application is filed outside the statute of limitations and whether to deny based on untimeliness or to waive the statute in the interest of justice.
(f)
Hearings.
ABCMR hearings. Applicants do not have a right to a hearing before the ABCMR. The Director or the ABCMR may grant a formal hearing whenever justice requires.
(g)
Disposition of applications
—(1)
ABCMR decisions.
The panel members' majority vote constitutes the action of the ABCMR. The ABCMR's findings,
recommendations, and in the case of a denial, the rationale will be in writing.
(2)
ABCMR final action.
(i) Except as otherwise provided, the ABCMR acts for the Secretary of the Army, and an ABCMR decision is final when it—
(A) Denies any application (except for actions based on reprisals investigated under 10 U.S.C. 1034).
(B) Grants any application in whole or in part without a hearing when—
(
1
) The relief is as recommended by the proper staff agency in an advisory opinion; and
(
2
) Is unanimously agreed to by the ABCMR panel; and
(
3
) Does not involve an appointment or promotion requiring confirmation by the Senate.
(ii) The ABCMR will forward the decisional document to the Secretary of the Army for final decision in any case in which—
(A) A hearing was held.
(B) The facts involve reprisals under the Military Whistleblower Protection Act, confirmed by the DOD Inspector General (DODIG) under 10 U.S.C. 1034 and DODD 7050.6.
(C) The ABCMR recommends relief but is not authorized to act for the Secretary of the Army on the application.
(3)
Decision of the Secretary of the Army.
(i) The Secretary of the Army may direct such action as he or she deems proper on each case. Cases returned to the Board for further consideration will be accompanied by a brief statement of the reasons for such action. If the Secretary does not accept the ABCMR's recommendation, adopts a minority position, or fashions an action that he or she deems proper and supported by the record, that decision will be in writing and will include a brief statement of the grounds for denial or revision.
(ii) The Secretary of the Army will issue decisions on cases covered by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (10 U.S.C. 1034 and DODD 7050.6). In cases where the DODIG concluded that there was reprisal, these decisions will be made within 180 days after receipt of the application and the investigative report by the DODIG, the Department of the Army Inspector General (DAIG), or other Inspector General offices. Unless the full relief requested is granted, these applicants will be informed of their right to request review of the decision by the Secretary of Defense.
(4)
Reconsideration of ABCMR decision.
An applicant may request the ABCMR to reconsider a Board decision under the following circumstances:
(i) If the ABCMR receives the request for reconsideration within 1 year of the ABCMR's original decision and if the ABCMR has not previously reconsidered the matter, the ABCMR staff will review the request to determine if it contains evidence (including, but not limited to, any facts or arguments as to why relief should be granted) that was not in the record at the time of the ABCMR's prior consideration. If new evidence has been submitted, the request will be submitted to the ABCMR for its determination of whether the new evidence is sufficient to demonstrate material error or injustice. If no new evidence is found, the ABCMR staff will return the application to the applicant without action.
(ii) If the ABCMR receives a request for reconsideration more than 1 year after the ABCMR's original decision or after the ABCMR has already considered one request for reconsideration, then the case will be returned without action and the applicant will be advised the next remedy is appeal to a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(h)
Claims/Expenses
—(1)
Authority.
(i) The Army, by law, may pay claims for amounts due to applicants as a result of correction of military records.
(ii) The Army may not pay any claim previously compensated by Congress through enactment of a private law.
(iii) The Army may not pay for any benefit to which the applicant might later become entitled under the laws and regulations managed by the VA.
(2)
Settlement of claims.
(i) The ABCMR will furnish DFAS copies of decisions potentially affecting monetary entitlement or benefits. The DFAS will treat such decisions as claims for payment by or on behalf of the applicant.
(ii) The DFAS will settle claims on the basis of the corrected military record. The DFAS will compute the amount due, if any. The DFAS may require applicants to furnish additional information to establish their status as
proper parties to the claim and to aid in deciding amounts due. Earnings received from civilian employment during any period for which active duty pay and allowances are payable will be deducted. The applicant's acceptance of a settlement fully satisfies the claim concerned.
(3)
Payment of expenses.
The Army may not pay attorney's fees or other expenses incurred by or on behalf of an applicant in connection with an application for correction of military records under 10 U.S.C. 1552.
(i)
Miscellaneous provisions
—(1)
Special standards.
(i) Pursuant to the November 27, 1979 order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in
Giles
v.
Secretary of the Army
(Civil Action No. 77-0904), a former Army soldier is entitled to an honorable discharge if a less than honorable discharge was issued to the soldier on or before November 27, 1979 in an administrative proceeding in which the Army introduced evidence developed by or as a direct or indirect result of compelled urinalysis testing administered for the purpose of identifying drug abusers (either for the purposes of entry into a treatment program or to monitor progress through rehabilitation or follow-up).
(ii) Applicants who believe that they fall within the scope of paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section should place the term “CATEGORY G” in block 11b of DD Form 149. Such applications should be expeditiously reviewed by a designated official, who will either send the individual an honorable discharge certificate if the individual falls within the scope of paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section, or forward the application to the Discharge Review Board if the individual does not fall within the scope of paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section. The action of the designated official will not constitute an action or decision by the ABCMR.
(2)
Public access to decisions.
(i) After deletion of personal information, a redacted copy of each decision will be indexed by subject and made available for review and copying at a public reading room at Crystal Mall 4, 1941 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia. The index will be in a usable and concise form so as to indicate the topic considered and the reasons for the decision. Under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), records created on or after November 1, 1996 will be available by electronic means.
(ii) Under the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), the ABCMR will not furnish to third parties information submitted with or about an application unless specific written authorization is received from the applicant or unless the Board is otherwise authorized by law.
[65 FR 17441, Apr. 3, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 67368, Nov. 7, 2005]
PART 583—FORMER PERSONNEL [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER G—PROCUREMENT

# Cross Reference:
For Department of Defense Acquisition Regulations, see chapter 2 of title 48.
PART 619 [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER H—SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT
Pt. 621

# PART 621—LOAN AND SALE OF PROPERTY
Sec.
621.1
Loan of Army/Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) owned property for use at national and State conventions.
621.2
Sales of ordnance property to individuals, non-Federal government agencies, institutions, and organizations.
621.3
[Reserved]
621.4
Issues, loans, and donations for scouting.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 81-193; 10 U.S.C. secs. 2574, 4308, 4506, 4507, 4627, and 4655, and Pub. L. 92-249.

# Source:
44 FR 5651, Jan. 29, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
For figures referred to in this part, see 42 FR 43807, Aug. 31, 1977.
§ 621.1
Loan of Army/Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) owned property for use at national and State conventions.
(a)
General.
This section—
(1) Prescribes procedures for loan of Army-owned property to recognized National Veterans' Organizations for National or State conventions as authorized by Pub. L. 81-193.
(2) Request for loans for National Youth Athletic or recreation tournaments sponsored by veterans' organizations listed in the “Veterans Administration Bulletin 23 (ALPHA),” will be processed by parent veterans' organizations.
(3) Loans are not authorized for other types of conventions or tournaments.
(b)
Items authorized for loan.
If available, the following items may be loaned for authorized veterans' organizations requirements.
(1) Unoccupied barracks.
(2) Cots.
(3) Mattresses.
(4) Mattress covers.
(5) Blankets.
(6) Pillows.
(7) Chairs, folding.
(8) Tentage, only when unoccupied barracks are not available.
(c)
Requests for loan.
(1) Requests by authorized veterans' organizations for loan of authorized Government property will be submitted to the appropriate CONUS Army Commander of the area in which the convention will be held or the Commander, Military District of Washington (MDW) if within his area.
(2) The tenure of loan is limited to 15 days from the date of delivery, except under unusual circumstances. A narrative explanation will be provided to support loan requests for more than 15 days duration.
(3) Loan requests should be submitted by letter at least 45 days prior to required date, if practicable.
(4) Requests for loans will contain the following information:
(i) Name of veterans' organization requesting the loan.
(ii) Location where the convention will be held.
(iii) Dates of duration of loan.
(iv) Number of individuals to be accommodated.
(v) Type and quantity of equipment required.
(vi) Type of convention, (State or National).
(vii) Complete instructions for delivery of equipment and address of requesting organizations.
(viii) Other pertinent information necessary to insure prompt delivery.
(d)
Responsibilities.
The Army or MDW Commander will:
(1) When the availability of personal and real property is determined, notify the requesting veterans' organization of the following:
(i) The items and quantities available for loan and the source of supply.
(ii) No compensation will be required by the Government for the use of real property.
(iii) No expense will be incurred by the United States Government in providing equipment and facilities on loan.
(iv) Costs of packaging, packing, transportation and handling from source of supply to destination and return will be borne by the requesting organization.
(v) All charges for utilities (gas, water, heat, and electricity) based on meter readings or such other methods
determined will be paid by the veterans' organization.
(vi) Charges which may accrue from loan of DLA/GSA material in accordance with paragraph III, AR 700-49/DSAR 4140.27, and GSA Order 4848.7 and Federal Property Management Regulations, subparagraph 101-27.5.
(vii) The Army will be reimbursed for any material not returned.
(viii) Costs of renovation and repair of items loaned will be borne by the requesting organization. Renovation and repair will be accomplished in accordance with agreement between the Army Commander and the loanee to assure expeditious return of items.
(ix) Transportation costs in connection with the repair and renovation of property will also be at the expense of the using organization.
(x) Assure that sufficient guards and such other personnel necessary to protect, maintain, and operate the equipment will be provided by the loanee.
(xi) The period of loan is limited to 15 days from date of delivery, except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.
(xii) Any building or barracks loaned will be utilized in place and will not be moved.
(xiii) Upon termination of use, the veterans' organization will vacate the premises, remove its own property therefrom, and turn over all Government property.
(2) Specify a bond in an amount to insure safe return of real and personal property in the same condition as when borrowed. (In the case of personal property, this amount will be equal to the total value of the items based on current acquisition costs.)
(i) An agreement will be executed between the Army Commander and the Veterans' Organization if the terms of the loan are acceptable. A sample loan agreement is shown at figure 7-5 of this subchapter.
(ii) When the agreement has been executed and the bond furnished, requisitions will be submitted to the appropriate source of supply. Requisitions will indicate shipping destination furnished by the veterans' organization. Transportation will be by commercial bills of lading on a collect basis.
(iii) Appoint a Property Book Officer to maintain accountability for the Government property furnished under this regulation.
(3) Property Book Officer will:
(i) Assume accountability from the document used in transferring property to the custody of the veterans' organization.
(ii) Perform a joint inventory with the veterans' organization representative. Survey any shortage or damages disclosed by the joint inventory in accordance with AR 735-11.
(iii) Maintain liaison with the veterans' organization during the period of the loan.
(iv) Prepare, in cooperation with the veterans' organization representative, an inventory of property being returned. Certify all copies of the receipt document with the veterans' organization representative.
(v) Insure the return of all property at the expense of loanee to the supply source or to repair facilities.
(vi) Obtain a copy of receipted shipping document from the installation receiving the property.
(vii) Determine cost and make demand on the loanee for:
(A) Items lost, destroyed, or damaged.
(B) Costs of repair or renovation. Estimated costs will be obtained from the accountable activity.
(C) Comply with instructions contained in AR 700-49/DSAR 4140.27 in the application of condition A and/or B, C, and T items utilized.
(D) Ascertain that items lost in transit are reconciled prior to assessing charges. Where the loss is attributable to other than the loanee, charges should not be borne by the borrower.
(viii) Request payment from the loanee. Checks are to be made payable to the Treasurer of the United States. Upon receipt of payment, appropriate fiscal accounts will be credited. The Property Transaction Record will be closed and the Stock Record Accounts audited.
(ix) Deposit collections in accordance with instructions contained in AR 37-103. In the event payment is not received within a reasonable period, Report of Survey Action will be initiated in accordance with AR 735-11.
(x) Reimburse DLA/GSA for the cost of any repair, reconditioning and/or materiel not returned.
§ 621.2
Sales of ordnance property to individuals, non-Federal government agencies, institutions, and organizations.
(a)
General.
This section—
(1) Cites the statutory authority for, and prescribes the methods and conditions of sale of certain weapons, ammunition, and related items as specified herein.
(2) Applies to all sales of weapons and related material to individuals, organizations, and institutions, when authorized by the US Army Armament Materiel Readiness Command (ARRCOM), and overseas commanders.
(3) Provides that sales under this section will be limited to quantities of an item which authorized purchasers can put to their own use. It is not intended that property be sold under the provisions of this section for the purpose or resale or other disposition.
(4) Does not apply to sales of property determined to be surplus. (See AR 755 series.)
(b)
Price.
Except as noted below, when sales of the Army property are made and the title thereto passes from the US Government, the prices charged will be the standard list price contained in the SC 1305/30 Management Data List series, plus cost of packing, crating, and handling and administrative charges.
(c)
Condition of sale.
Provisions apply to sales under this section, as follows:
(1) Sales will be made without expense to the Government.
(i) All costs incident to sales (including packing, crating, handling, etc.) will be paid in advance by the purchaser.
(ii) All costs incident to shipment (transportation, parcel post charges, etc.) will also be paid by the customer.
(iii) Payment for items and charges incident to sale will be made only by cashier's check, certified check, bank money order, or postal money order made payable to the Treasurer of the United States.
(iv) For other than items of ammunition and ammunition components, cash will be acceptable when consignee pickup is authorized or purchase is made in person.
(2) All financial transactions will be accomplished in accordance with applicable Department of the Army directives and regulations. Moneys collected for cost of items, as well as packing, crating, and handling, will be deposited as an appropriate reimbursement as prescribed in applicable regulations.
(3) Generally, all sales are final and, normally, the US Government assumes no obligation or responsibility for repair, replacement, or exchange, except as provided in AR 920-20. Purchasers will be so advised prior to making the sale. All weapons sold, however, will be safe for firing.
(4) Weapons sold at standard price will be supplied with equipment. Weapons sold at less than standard price will be supplied less equipment.
(5) Sales of specific items may be suspended at any time by the direction of CDR, ARRCOM.
(d)
Purchasing procedure.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, all requests originating within CONUS for the purchase of small arms weapons, repair parts, cleaning, preserving, and target material will be submitted to the Commander, ARRCOM, Rock Island, IL 61201.
(i) Upon approval, these items will be shipped from Army depots stocking such material, based upon availability of material. Customers will be furnished instructions for submission of remittance.
(ii) Upon receipt of proper remittance from eligible customers ARRCOM will issue the necessary documents directing shipment from an Army depot where the items are available.
(2) In implementing the subchapter, oversea commands should designate installations within the oversea command to which requests for purchase of ammunition and related material will be directed.
(3) Depots shipping weapons to individuals, Director of Civilian Marksmanship (DCM) affiliated rifle and pistol “clubs”, museums, veterans organizations, and other US Government agencies will annotate shipping documents with the serial number of all the weapons they ship. Firearms shipped will be reported to Commander,
ARRCOM, ATTN: DR SAR-MMD-D, Rock Island, IL 61202, using DA Form 3535 (Weapons Sales Record), DA Form 3535 may be obtained from Commander, Letterkenny Army Depot, ATTN: DRXLE-ATD, Chambersburg, PA 17201.
(i) The transportation officer will ascertain estimated transportation costs, to include DA transportation security measures (costs) for shipment to destination. Such information will be transmitted by letter to consignee with request for acknowledgement that shipment will be accepted based on costs submitted.
(ii) Shipment will not be made unless consignee agrees to accept shipments. Refusal to accept shipment shall be reported to ARRCOM.
(4) CDR, ARRCOM is responsible for maintaining a record by serial number of all weapons reported by depot in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section. He will establish procedures to screen purchase requests to insure compliance with any limitations established by this section.
(e)
Sales to individuals, organizations, and institutions.
(1) Sales of small arms weapons and ammunition are limited by statute (10 U.S.C. 4308). Such sales will be made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph and with other rules and regulations approved by the Secretary of the Army.
(2) Sales will be limited to M1 service rifles, either national match grade or service grade. Only one such rifle and spare parts for it will be sold to an individual. No ammunition will be sold to individuals.
(3) Junior marksmanship clubs and junior marksmanship division affiliated within the Director of Civilian Marksmanship (DCM) pursuant to AR 920-20 may purchase limited quantities of .22 caliber ammunition.
(4) The DCM will determine the maximum quantity of such ammunition that clubs will be permitted to purchase in each fiscal year.
(5) Approved, non-profit summer camp organizations that are of a civic nature are allowed to purchase from the DCM at cost plus shipping and handling charges, 300 rounds of .22 caliber ammunition for each junior who is participating in a summer camp marksmanship program.
(6) Requests for purchase of ammunition by marksmanship clubs and summer camp organizations will be submitted to the DCM for approval. If he approves, the application will be forwarded to ARRCOM for processing. If it is disapproved, it is returned to applicant with reason(s) stated for disapproval.
(f)
Eligibility of purchasers.
In order to purchase a rifle under this program, an individual must:
(1) Be a member of a marksmanship club affiliated with the DCM (AR 920-20).
(2) Based upon regular competitive shooting, have an established status as a marksman as determined by the DCM.
(g)
Purchase procedure.
(1) Individuals desiring to purchase National Match Grade M1 service rifles will submit requests to the Director of Civilian Marksmanship, Department of the Army, Washington, DC 20314-0110. The request should contain the name and address of the shooting club with which the purchaser is affiliated and appropriate evidence of status as a competitive marksman.
(2) Upon receipt of a request, the Director of Civilian Marksmanship will forward to the individual a Certificate for Purchase of Firearms in the suggested format at figure 5-1 to be completed, notarized and returned. When returned with check or arrangements for payment, the Certificate will be referred for appropriate verification in the records of US Government agencies and for other investigation as required. This is done to insure that the sale of a weapon to the applicant is not likely to result in a violation of law. The Privacy Act Statement for Certificate of Purchase of Firearms (figure 5-2) will be made available to the individual supplying data on the Certificate for Purchase of Firearms (suggested format, figure 5-1). Prior to requesting the individual to supply data on the Certificate for Purchase of Firearms (suggested format, figure 5-1) the Privacy Act Statement for Certificate will be made available to the individual concerned. (The Privacy Act Statement will be reproduced locally on 8 × 10
1/2
inch paper.)
(i) A purchase application will be denied if the applicant fails to meet all the conditions required in the Certificate.
(ii) If an application is denied, the applicant will be informed of the action and will be given an opportunity to submit additional information justifying approval of the application.
(iii) If the results of the investigation are favorable, the application will be forwarded to ARRCOM for processing.
(h) Marksmanship clubs affiliated with the DCM and individuals who are members of those clubs are authorized to purchase from the Army targets of types not otherwise available from commercial sources. Request for such purchases will be submitted to the Director of Civilian Marksmanship for approval and processing. Individuals who have in the past purchased rifles from the Army under the authority of 10 U.S.C. 4308(a)(5), may purchase spare parts for those rifles if the parts are available. Requests for purchase of spare parts will be submitted to the Director of Civilian Marksmanship for approval. If he/she approves the application, she/he will forward it to ARRCOM for processing. If he/she disapproves the application, she/he will return it to the applicant stating the reasons for disapproval. Current DA transportation security measures for weapons will be applied under procedures contained in paragraphs (d)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Cadets, US Military Academy.
(1) When approved by the CDR DARCOM, the Superintendent, US Military Academy may sell to cadets upon graduation from the Academy those sabers which no longer meet prescribed standards of appearance and/or serviceability.
(2) Application to purchase sabers under these provisions will be made in accordance with procedures established by the Superintendent.
(j)
Reserve Officer's Training Corps (ROTC) and National Defense Cadet Corps (NDCC).
Supplies required by educational institution for the training of units and individuals of the Reserve Officer's Training Corps and National Defense Cadet Corps, in addition to authorized items normally furnished to ROTC and NDCC schools, may be sold when available by the activities listed in paragraph (g) of this section (10 U.S.C. 4627). Such purchases will be in accordance with AR 145-2.
(k)
Manufacturers and designers.
(1) Under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 4506, the Secretary of the Army is authorized to sell to contractors or potential contractors such samples, drawings, and manufacturing and other information as he considers best for national defense. Procedures for such sale are contained in APP 13-1502.
(2) Under the provisions of 10, U.S.C. 4507, the Secretary of the Army may sell to designers who are nationals of the United States, serviceable ordnance and ordnance stores necessary in the development of designs for the Armed Forces. Designers will submit application to purchase to the appropriate Commodity Command.
(3) If any item normally requiring demilitarization pursuant to the Defense Disposal Manual (DoD 4160.21-M) and the AR 755-series is sold, a special condition of sale will prohibit further disposition by the purchaser without prior approval of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Department of the Army.
(l)
Sales of individual pieces of U.S. armament for sentimental reasons.
Under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 2574, individual pieces of U.S. armament, which are not needed for their historical value and can be advantageously replaced, may be sold at a price not less than cost when there exists for such sale sentimental reasons adequate in the judgment of the Secretary of the Army.
(m)
Method of sale.
(1) Applications to purchase under the provisions of this act will be submitted to Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, ATTN: DALO-SMS, Department of the Army, with a complete identification including serial number, and location of desired item, if known.
(2) Approved applications for major items will be forwarded through Commander, U.S. Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command, ATTN: DRCMM-SP, to the Commander, U.S. Army Armament Materiel Readiness Command.
[44 FR 5651, Jan. 29, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 48097, Nov. 21, 1989]
§ 621.3
[Reserved]
§ 621.4
Issues, loans, and donations for scouting.
(a)
General.
This section provides information relative to issue, loan or donation of Government property to the Boy Scouts of America and the Girl Scouts of America.
(b)
Guidance.
(1) Issues are made under the provisions of the loan agreement and reimbursement is made for adjusted shortages and damages.
(2) Provisions for donations of surplus property to Scout organizations, including lists of classes of donable property, are contained in chapter III, part 3, Defense Disposal Manual (DOD 4160.21M).
(3) The loan of certain Army, Navy, Air Force and DLA equipment and the provision of transportation and other services for Jamborees is initially provided for by Pub. L. 92-249. Implementation on a current basis is made in DOD Directive 7420.1. Army implementation is provided as follows:
(i) Army stock fund in paragraph 2-6b(4), AR 37-111, Working Capital Fund-Army Stock Fund Uniform Policies, Principles and Procedures Governing Army Stock Fund Operations.
(ii) Non-stock fund in paragraph 2-18, AR 310-34, Equipment Authorization Policies and Criteria, and Common Table of Allowances.
(c)
Procedure.
Loan agreements are mutually developed preceding the actual lending of the equipment. Paragraph 1-16, AR 735-5, General Principles, Policies and Basic Procedures, is used as the guide for preparation of loan agreements. Authority for commanders to participate in World and National Jamborees is included in paragraph (d) of this section; Procedure for Loan of Equipment and Providing of Transportation and Other Services to the Boy Scouts of America for World and National Jamborees is included in paragraph (j) of this section; and sample loan agreement to be executed by area commanders is included as figure 7-5.
(d)
World and National Boy Scout Jamborees.
The Act of 10 March 1972 (Pub. L. 92-249; 86 Stat. 62) and (86 Stat. 63) authorized the Secretary of Defense to lend equipment and provide transportation and other services to the Boy Scouts of America in support of World and National Jamborees. The Secretary of Defense has delegated his authority and responsibility for the support of Jamborees to the Secretary of the Army. The Commander DARCOM ATTN: DRCMM-SP has been assigned to monitor the program for the Secretary of the Army.
(e)
Group travel and visits.
Many Scouts and Leaders will travel in groups and their itinerary will provide for visits to places of interest in CONUS en route to and from Jamborees. Such group travel may begin in June and extend into September and October of the Jamboree year. In keeping with Department of the Army policies, commanders of Army installations may extend an invitation to and honor requests from Scout groups enroute to and from the Jamboree to visit and encamp at their installation.
(f)
Commissary and post privileges.
Installation commanders are authorized to provide commissary and post exchange privileges to Scout groups en route to and from the Jamboree for food items such as bread, meat, and dairy products. These privileges will be extended only to Scout groups which are en route to or from the Jamboree and who are encamped or quartered at the installation or the Jamboree site. Commissary and post exchange privileges extended to Scout groups while encamped at the Jamboree site for supply and food items will only be honored upon-application by officials of the Boy Scouts of America to supplement supplies and rations not considered adequate for American Scouts or Scouters.
(g)
Arrangements.
Regional Scout Executives have been informed by the National Headquarters of the contents of this subchapter and that arrangements pursuant to this subchapter must be made in advance directly with the installation commanders. However, commanders will consider factors of extenuation or emergency which may preclude advance arrangements.
(h)
Hospitalization.
Boy Scouts and Scout Leaders attending Jamborees are considered designees of the Secretary of the Army for the purpose of receiving medical care at US Army Medical facilities. The reciprocal rate will not
be charged. Subsistence charges will be at the rate of $1.80 per day for hospitalized patients, but will not be collected locally. Each Boy Scout and Leader participating in Jamborees and hospitalized in Army medical treatment facilities will be reported to The Surgeon General, ATTN: DASG-SGRE-SSC, Department of the Army, Washington, DC 20314, on DD Form 7 (Report of Treatment Furnished Pay Patients; Hospitalization Furnished (part A)). No local collections are authorized.
(i)
Service coordination.
(1) The Departments of the Navy and the Air Force and the Defense Logistics Agency will assist the Department of the Army in providing necessary equipment, transportation, and services in support of the Boy Scouts of America attending Jamborees. The Secretary of the Army or his designee will maintain liaison, as appropriate, with such agencies to avoid duplication of effort.
(2) Other departments (agencies) of the Federal Government are authorized under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary (Administrator) thereof, to provide to the Boy Scouts of America (BSA), equipment and other services, under the same conditions and restrictions prescribed for the Secretary of Defense.
(j)
Procedure for loan of equipment and providing of transportation and other services to the Boy Scouts of America for world and national jamborees. Preliminary actions.
(1) In accordance with the provisions of Pub. L. 92-249, H.R. 11738, 10 March 1972, and Secretary of Defense Memo of 17 May 1972, Subject: Loan of Equipment and Providing of Transportation and Other Services to the Boy Scouts of America for Boy Scout Jamborees; Memo of 23 January 1973, Subject: Military Transportation Support for Boy Scout Jamborees; and Memo of 19 August 1974, Subject: Military Transportation Support for Boy Scout Jamborees, the DOD is authorized to lend certain items and provide transportation and certain other services to such Jamborees. Prior to the loan of property and providing transportation and other services, an appropriate agreement will be executed between the United States of America and the activity to be supported. A bond (fig. 7-6), in an amount specified by the Commander, DARCOM, based on statute taken by the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, Major Army Command (MACOM), and held until termination of the encampment and final settelment is made for each Jamboree.
(2) The Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM designated, on behalf of the Commander, DARCOM, representing the Secretary of Defense will enter into legal arrangements with the Boy Scouts of America for the loan of equipment and the providing of transportation and certain other services for Boy Scouts World and National Jamborees. National Jamborees include Jamborees conducted by and within the United States and also those conducted by and within foreign nations.
(3) The Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM, will appoint a Property Book Officer who will maintain separate stock records in order to provide for a single final billing to the supported activity (Boy Scouts of America) for items consumed, lost, damaged or destroyed. The Department of the Army will not be billed for items obtained from other than Army sources, except medical supply losses. Bills for medical supply losses will be submitted to the US Army Area Surgeon for payment. He will establish liaison with the activity to be supported. The property book account will be established in accordance with section II, chapter 2, AR 710-2.
(4) The Commander-in-Chief, MACOM, will task the Army Area Surgeon for Medical Supply Support to the Jamborees. Each Surgeon designated should appoint an accountable officer and furnish the name, location, and routing identifier of a project office wherein medical supply problems can be resolved.
(5) The Property Book Officer is authorized direct communication with the source of supply, other military department liaison personnel and DARCOM ICP's to resolve routine supply problems.
(k)
Preparing bills of material.
(1) The activity (BSA) will submit a list of equipment and supplies desired to the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM. This list will be edited during
and subsequent to preliminary conferences with representatives of the activity and furnished to Commander, DARCOM, ATTN: DRCMM-SP.
(2) HQ, DARCOM will convert the informal list to a tentative Bill of Material and will furnish the respective Commodity Command that part of the Bill of Material for their items of logistical responsibility. A suggested format for the Bill of Material is included as figure 7-1. Local reproduction is authorized. Copies of the entire tentative Bill of Material will also be furnished to each of the military departments authorized to participate in the support of the encampments. The Bill of Material forwarded to the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM will be screened to determine inhouse availability prior to placing requisitions on CONUS supply points.
(3) At such time as item availability information is on hand and the sources to be used are determined (paragraph (m) of this section, a Bill of Material (figure 7-1) will be prepared by HQ, DARCOM, and forwarded to the Commander-in-chief/Commander, MACOM.
(4) The Bill of Material will list, by commodity command (military department), all items desired, identified by National Stock Number (NSN) description, quantity desired and required delivery date. The NSN will provide identification of the items required. Items will be identified by the Property Book Officer to the responsible commodity command or military department as indicated below:
(i) CERCOM
1 US Army Communications and Electronics Materiel Readiness Command.
(ii) TSARCOM
2 US Army Troop and Aviation Materiel Readiness Command.
(iii) ARRCOM
3 US Army Armament Materiel Readiness Command.
(iv) TARCOM
4 U.S. Army Tank-Automotive Materiel Readiness Command.
(v) DLA
5 Defense Logistics Agency.
(vi) Navy
N Department of the Navy.
(vii) Air Force
F Department of the Air Force.
(viii) Other Installations
A
The Bill of Material will be screened to insure that radioactive items restricted for military use are not included.
(l)
Establish property transaction records.
(1) A Property Transaction Record reflecting complete information about each item loaned to the activity will be established and maintained by the Property Book Officer (figure 7-2) and the respective commodity command military department (figure 7-3). Suggested formats for the Property Transaction Records are found in figures 7-2, 7-3, and 7-4, Local reproduction is authorized.
(2) The Property Book Officer will also establish and maintain separate Property Transaction Records for items obtained from supply sources other than Army commodity commands,
i.e.
, other Army installations, Department of the Navy, Department of the Air Force (figure 7-4).
(3) Each entry on the Property Transaction Record will be supported by appropriate documentation (commodity command: copies of shipping documents, copies of return documents and copies of surveillance inspection report—Property Book Officer: Requisition voucher files and hand receipt cards). This is particularly important for reconciliation purposes in order that all property received from each source will be returned to that source upon termination of each encampment.
(m)
Locating and obtaining equipment and supplies.
(1) The respective commodity commands (military departments) will screen the tentative Bill of Material (paragraph (k)(2) of this section) and determine availability and source of supply identified by Routing Identifier Code. They will advise HQ, DARCOM, ATTN: DRCMM—SP of availability, appropriate substitute items when the requested items are not available in sufficient quantity, and the source of supply for requisitioning purposes.
(2) Concurrently, the Bill of Material will be screened within the MACOM to determine those items that can be obtained from assets available in the command.
(3) The Property Book Officer will requisition equipment and supplies from the source of supply as indicated by Commander, DARCOM in accordance with AR 725-50 or other separately furnished instructions. The requisition number, quantity requisitioned, stock number and source of supply will be entered in the Property Transaction
Record. Requisitions will cite the appropriate project code assigned and appropriate activity address code on all requisitions submitted. Project codes will be assigned by Commander, Logistic Systems Support Activity, ATTN: DRXLS-LCC, Chambersburg, PA, 17201 and distributed by message to all interested addressees.
(4) Loan of General Services Administration (GSA) General Supply Fund Material—The Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, authorizes the Administrator, GSA to loan GSA General Supply Fund Material to the Department of Defense and other federal agencies. Loan shall be made to the extent that items are readily available and that such loans will not jeopardize the GSA stock inventory. The loan of GSA General Supply Fund Material shall normally be limited to 90 Calendar days. Requisitions for GSA material should be submitted to the nearest GSA Regional Office by the CINC/CDR MACOM.
(5) Formal accountability for all items shipped to the site of the activity will be retained by the appropriate accountable activity. Property and financial accounting will be in accordance with respective military department regulations governing loans.
(6) The shipping depot or other source will furnish a copy of the shipping document to the respective commodity command (military department) where the quantity charged, date shipped, condition of the property and total value will be posted to the Property Transaction Record.
(7) Upon receipt of the advance copy of the shipping document, the commodity command (military department) will post information to his Transaction Record, by source as in paragraph (l)(1) of this section.
(8) When the shipment is received, the Property Book Officer will inspect the property. A narrative statement of condition will be prepared if condition of the property is other than that indicated on the shipping document and referenced to the condition entry on the Property Transaction Record. The source of supply, as appropriate, will be immediately notified of overages or shortages and verified in condition, as provided in chapter 8, AR 735-11. The Property Book Officer will enter on the shipping document the quantity actually received when it differs from quantity shown as shipped and will post the quantities received to the property book record.
(9) Discrepancies between the quantity shipped by the depot and that received by the Property Book Officer and variance in condition will be reconciled as rapidly as possible and appropriate records will be brought into agreement. When shortage or damage is not attributable to the carrier, the Property Book Officer will immediately contact the responsible source of supply, furnishing the stock number and document number involved, together with an explanation of the discrepancy. Reconciliation is particularly important in order to ensure a common point of departure in determining charges to be assessed upon termination of the activity. Replacement shipments, when required, will be covered by appropriate shipping documents.
(10) Special Instructions for Defense Logistics Agency, Clothing and Textile Items. (See DSAR 4140.27/AR 700-49).
(n)
Transportation.
(1) Transportation of equipment and supplies—The responsibility of coordinating movement of equipment and supplies placed on loan to the Boy Scouts of America during National and World Jamborees is delegated to the Commander, US Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command, ATTN: DRCMM-ST.
(2) All requisitions for items in question, will cite the appropriate project code and will be shipped by commercial bill of lading on a collect basis to all National Jamborees and World Jamborees held in the United States.
(3) Shipments to Boy Scout contingents at World Jamborees in foreign countries will be by Government bills of lading, unless otherwise specified by the Boy Scouts of America.
(4) All shipments directed to Boy Scout Jamborees will be routed by the most feasible means as determined by the shipper. Shipments will be consolidated to the maximum extent possible to assure the lowest charges available to the Boy Scouts of America.
(5) Separate shipping instructions will be provided for each Jamboree to assure that correct consignee and railhead addresses are furnished.
(6) Movement of Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials living in the United States of America to a Jamboree within the United States of America or to a Jamboree in an oversea area shall be the responsibility of the Boy Scouts of America or the individuals concerned.
(7) No authority exists under Pub. L. 92-249 for the movement of Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials via military capabilities other than those of the Military Airlift Command or the Military Sealift Command.
(o)
Transportation by vessels of the Military Sealift Command (MSC).
(1) The MSC does not operate any ships suitable for carriage of passengers on transoceanic routes. Although pertinent directives and Pub. L. 92-249 authorize the movement of Boy Scouts on Military Vessels, the MSC has no capability to provide such transportation.
(2) The MSC is an industrial-funded organization and charges the military service for sealift services provided in accordance with established rates. The host command will be responsible to compensate the MSC for any equipment or material moved on MSC ships. The limitations inherent in Pub. L. 92-249 stipulate that transportation support provided will be at no cost to the Government. Under these directions, Boy Scout equipment or materiel is not authorized movement on a space available basis without prior approval of the Secretary of Defense. Such approval is not anticipated.
(3) All billings for transportation provided by MSC will be forwarded to the appropriate Commander-in-Chief/Commander of the support major Army command (MACOM). Reimbursement will be requested by the MACOM Commander from the Boy Scouts of America.
(p)
Transportation of oversea based scouts, scouters, and other authorized personnel by military airlift to national or international jamborees.
(1) Space required reimbursable transportation by Military Airlift Command (MAC) airlift over established MAC channels is authorized from points outside the Continental United States (OCONUS) to aerial ports within CONUS, or to other oversea locations and return. Such transportation will be provided only to the extent that it does not interfere with the requirements of military operations, and only to those Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials residing overseas and certified by the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) as representing the BSA at the Jamboree. Certification by the BSA will be in the form of a letter identifying each such individual as their authorized representative at the Jamboree. This letter of authorization must be presented to the sponsoring overseas command.
(2) Boy Scouts, Scouters, officials and their equipment will be moved after all space-required traffic, but before any space-available traffic.
(3) Each passenger is authorized the normal accompanying free baggage allowance of 66 pounds while traveling on MAC aircraft. It is not contemplated that any excess baggage allowance will be authorized.
(4) Transportation of Boy Scouts, Scouters, officials, and their equipment provided by MAC controlled aircraft will be reimbursed at the common user tariff rates assessed U.S. Government Traffic, as contained in AFR 76-11.
(5) On the basis of letters of authorization issued by the BSA, the BSA will monitor services provided by the Department of Defense. One copy of each BSA letter of authorization will be forwarded to the Commander, US Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command, ATTN: DRCMM-SP, 5001 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22333, for planning purposes. This letter of authorization should specify whether one way or round trip transportation is requested.
(6) DACROM responsibilities include the following:
(i) Compiling a passenger forecast to be submitted to MAC in accordance with AR 59-8/OPNAVINST 4630.18C/AFR 76-38/MCO 4630.6B.
(ii) Providing Military Traffic Management Command (MTMC) an information copy of the passenger forecast.
(iii) Submitting all passenger requirements for one way and round trip transportation originating overseas to the appropriate overseas command.
(7) The responsibilities of the sponsoring overseas command include:
(i) Verifying that Scout passengers are officially authorized representatives of BSA in accordance with paragraph (p)(1) of this section.
(ii) Making all necessary passenger reservations with MAC, for transportation originating overseas, in accordance with AR 55-6/AFR 76-5/OPNAVINST 4630.23/MCO P4630.11. The oversea command will submit CONUS outbound return passenger requirements to Commander, Military Traffic Management Command, ATTN: MTMC-PTO-P, Washington, DC 20315.
(iii) Issuing each passenger a MAC Transportation Authorization (DD Form 1482) for transportation from the overseas location and return, when round trip transportation has been requested. The customer identification code, item (7) of the DD Form 1482, should be designated—JBWJ—which was approved by MAC as the permanent CIC for direct billing purposes to HQ, Boy Scouts of America, North Brunswick, New Jersey, 08902.
(iv) Ensuring that each Scout passenger has a completed DD Form 1381, signed by a parent, guardian or other legally responsible individual.
(v) Evaluating the use and necessity of military airlift within or between overseas locations. This evaluation will include such factors as reasonable travel time, number of connections required, and assurance of Scout group integrity. Surface transportation will normally be used for travel within an overseas area.
(8) The responsibilities of the MTMC include:
(i) Evaluating the return outbound passenger requirements and making the necessary transportation arrangements so as to maintain Scout group integrity at all times.
(ii) Assisting the BSA in completing required documentation and insuring that passengers are ready prior to the return flight.
(iii) Pub. L. 92-249 does not provide authorization for the use of the Department of Defense transportation by Scouts, Scouters, and Officials of foreign nations. All requests to transport such persons should be forwarded through the unified command channels to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs). However, DOD does not contemplate authorization for the use of MAC aircraft for other than U.S. Scouts, Scouters, and Officials.
(iv) Use of military helicopters in support of medical evacuation, VIP, press and photo-services—The Director of Army Aviation, the Department of the Army Staff Judge Advocate, and the Comptroller of the Army have furnished the general opinion that Pub. L. 92-249 authorizes the use of Military helicopters in support of the above described services to the extent they are reasonably available and permits the use of appropriated funds.
(q)
Determination of charges and settlement.
(1) All property on which repair cost is claimed will be held at the depot or post, camp or station until final charges are determined and a release is given by CDR, DARCOM, Department of the Army.
(2) The commodity command (military department) will prepare the following information and statement, and forward them, to CDR, DARCOM, Department of the Army, for final review:
(i) Complete Property Transaction Record and supporting documents.
(ii) Proper accounts for which reimbursement received for shortages and repairs are to be deposited.
(iii) The following statement: “The losses and/or damages indicated on the Property Transaction Report in the amount of $______ represent the total claim by (appropriate commodity command or military department) relative to commodity command or military department property loaned to (Boy Scouts of America). Upon settlement and deposit to the proper account, the CDR of the commodity command or military department releases the (Boy Scouts of America) from further obligations.”
(iv) Statements as to the general type of repair (e.g., tentage, repair tears, insert new panels, replace grommets) will be reported on separate addendum to the Property Transaction Record for items requiring repair.
(3) The CINC/CDR, MACOM, will prepare the following information and statement for property furnished for
assets in the command and will forward this to CDR, DARCOM:
(i) Same as (q)(2)(i) of this section.
(ii) Same as (q)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iii) The following statement: The losses and/or damages indicated on the Property Transaction Record in the amount of $______ represent the total claim by (appropriate Army) relative to (appropriate Army) property loaned to (Boy Scouts of America). Upon settlement and deposit to the proper account, the CINC/CDR, MACOM releases the (Boy Scouts of America) from further obligations.
(iv) Same as (q)(2)(iv) of this section.
(4) CDR, DARCOM, will review the charges, inspect property to be repaired, if necessary, reconcile any discrepancies and determine final charges to be levied against the supported activity. Approved list of charges will be forwarded to the CINC/CDR, MACOM, for collection, and property being held for repair will be released.
(5) The CINC/CDR, MACOM, will prepare and dispatch a letter to the supporting activity and request payment made payable to the Treasurer of the United States. Upon receipt of payment, collection documents will be prepared and appropriate fiscal accounts, as furnished by the commodity command (military departments) ((q)(2) and (3) of this section) credited. The MACOM Surgeon will take action to reimburse the DLA stock fund for expendable medical supply losses reported. The CINC/CDR, MACOM, will close the Property Transaction Record Account.
(6) The CINC/CDR, MACOM, will advise the CDR, commodity command (military departments and CDR, DARCOM, DA) that settlement has been accomplished. Commodity command (military department) Property Transaction Records will be closed upon receipt of the foregoing advice.
(7) The CDR, DARCOM will advise the CINC/CDR, MACOM, to return the bond to Boy Scouts of America.
(8) In the event of unsatisfactory settlement, the proceeds of the bond will be used to satisy the claim. The Power of Attorney executed in connection with the agreement will be invoked and proceeds collected from the bond (fig. 7-7).
Pt. 623

# PART 623—LOAN OF ARMY MATERIEL
Sec.
623.1
General.
623.2
Loan policies.
623.3
Submission of requests for loan of Army materiel.
623.4
Accounting procedures.
623.5
Loan of arms and accouterments.
623.6
Reimbursement for loan of Army materiel.
623.7
Reports.
Appendix A to Part 623—Explanation of Terms
Appendix B to Part 623—Approving Authority Addresses/Telephone Numbers
Appendix C to Part 623—Agreement for Loan of US Army Materiel (DA Form 4881-R)
Appendix D to Part 623—Certificate for Signature by an Alternate (DA Form 4881-1-R)
Appendix E to Part 623—Surety Bond (DA Form 4881-3-R)
Appendix F to Part 623—Power of Attorney (DA Form 4881-4-R)
Appendix G to Part 623—Continental US Army Boundaries
Appendix H to Part 623—References

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2571; 31 U.S.C. 686; 10 U.S.C. 2667.

# Source:
AR 700-131, 45 FR 62038, Sept. 18, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 623.1
General.
(a)
Purpose.
This part sets forth policies and procedures for loan of Army materiel. As used in this regulation, the term “loan” includes a lease.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) This regulation applies to all Department of the Army (DA) agencies, commands, installations, and activities.
(2) This regulation applies to the Army National Guard (ARNG) only when the procedure for the loan of equipment under the procedure of National Guard Regulation (NGR) 735-12 does not apply.
(3) This regulation does not apply to loans governed by the DOD Military Assistance and Sales Manual, DOD 5105.38-M.
(4) This regulation does not apply to loans governed by the Defense Acquisition Regulation (DAR).
(c)
Scope.
This part outlines when loans of Army materiel may be made. It gives general procedures for requesting and processing loans, and sets forth
responsibilities, including requirements for reimbursement.
(d)
Explanation of terms.
(1) The terms “loan,” “lease” and “bailment” are contractual terms and are frequently used interchangeably. They have no meaning by themselves. It is necessary to study the statute to see what is required. Usually, a “loan” is thought of as a short-term transfer of property, sometimes with reimbursement; a “lease” is a more formal transfer, often long-term and requiring a fair monetary rental; and a “bailment” is a loosely-used term, generally reserved for a delivery of property to another in trust for the purpose of doing something to the property and then returning the property to the owner. The term “issue” is frequently used in the sense of a transfer of property which will be consumed in use. The terms “gift,” meaning a permanent transfer of property without reimbursement, and “sale,” meaning a permanent transfer with reimbursement, are outside the scope of this regulation.
(2) For additional definitions, see appendix A.
(3) The words “he, him, his” when used in this publication represent both the masculine and feminine genders, unless otherwise specifically stated.
(e)
Loan restrictions.
(1) Army materiel is not normally used for other than the Army's primary mission; however, under conditions described herein materiel not immediately needed to support mission requirements may be loaned to—
(i) Army and other Department of Defense (DOD) elements.
(ii) Non-DOD Federal departments and agencies.
(iii) Civil governments (State and local).
(iv) Special activities, agencies, and others.
(2) Table 2-1 lists various circumstances where loan of Army materiel might be requested. It identifies the applicable Federal laws or other authority which would authorize such loans.
(f)
Statutory authorities.
There are three basic federal laws which authorize the loan of Army property. There are also numerous specific statutes which authorize particular types of loans in limited situations. Unless there is a reason to use the specific statute, one of the basic statutes will be used.
(1) The following are the basic statutes:
(i) 10 U.S.C. 2571—Authority for loan of property within DOD.
(ii) 31 U.S.C. 686 (The Economy Act)—Authority for loans to other Federal departments and agencies.
(iii) 10 U.S.C. 2667 (The Leasing Statute)—Authority for loans/leases, including leases to activities outside the Federal Government.
(2) Following are some of the specific authorizing statutes:
(i) 10 U.S.C. 331—Federal aid for State governments as result of insurrection.
(ii) 10 U.S.C. 332—Use of militia and Armed Forces to enforce federal authority.
(iii) 10 U.S.C. 333—Use of militia or Armed Forces to suppress interference with state and federal law.
(iv) 10 U.S.C. 2541—Loan of equipment and barracks to national veterans organizations.
(v) 10 U.S.C. 2542—Loan of equipment to the American National Red Cross for instruction and practice.
(vi) 10 U.S.C. 2543—Loan of equipment to US Presidential Inaugural Committee.
(vii) 10 U.S.C. 2544—Loan of equipment and services to the Boy Scouts of America, for national and world jamborees.
(viii) 10 U.S.C. 2572—(See AR 870-20.) Loan of books, manuscripts, works of art, drawings, plans, models, and condemned or obsolete combat materiel not needed to—
(A) A municipal corporation.
(B) A soldiers monument association.
(C) A state museum.
(D) A nonprofit incorporated museum.
(E) Posts of Veterans of Foreign Wars of the USA.
(F) American Legion Posts.
(G) A local unit of any other recognized war veterans association.
(H) A post of the Sons of Veterans Reserve.
(ix) 10 U.S.C. 4308—Establishment and support of civilian rifle ranges.
(x) 10 U.S.C. 4311—Issue of rifles and ammunition for conducting rifle instruction and practice.
(xi) 10 U.S.C. 4651—Issue of arms, tentage, and equipment to support educational institutions that do not have ROTC but maintain a course in military training prescribed by the Secretary of the Army.
(xii) 10 U.S.C. 4652—Loan of rifles and issue ammunition for target practice to educational institutions having corps of cadets.
(xiii) 10 U.S.C. 4653—Issue of ordnance and ordnance stores to District of Columbia high schools.
(xiv) 10 U.S.C. 4654—Issue of quartermaster supplies at educational institutions that maintain a camp for military instruction of its students.
(xv) 10 U.S.C. 4655—Loan of arms and issue ammunition to other agencies and departments of the US Government.
(xvi) 10 U.S.C. 4656—Loan of aircraft and ancillary equipment to accredited aviation schools at which DA or Air Force personnel pursue courses of instruction.
(xvii) 10 U.S.C. 4683—Loan of obsolete or condemned rifles and accouterments to local units of recognized national veterans organizations for certain ceremonial purposes.
(xviii) 10 U.S.C. 4685—Loan of obsolete ordnance to educational institutions and state soldiers and sailors orphans' homes for purpose of drill and instruction.
(xix) 32 U.S.C. 702—Issue of supplies to State National Guard.
(xx) 33 U.S.C. 701n (Pub. L. 84-99 as amended)—Flood emergency preparation; emergency supplies of drinking water.
(xxi) 33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
(Pub. L. 92-500)—Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
(xxii) 42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.
(Pub. L. 93-288)—Disaster Relief Act.
(3) Other statutory guidance:
(i) 10 U.S.C. 4307—Authorizes the establishment of a Director of Civilian Markmanship (DCM).
(ii) 18 U.S.C. 1385—Unlawful use of Armed Forces in local law enforcement.
(iii) 18 U.S.C. 3056 (as amended by Pub. L. 91-651)—Powers and duties of Secret Service.
(g)
Responsibilities.
(1) The Commanding General (CG), US Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command (DARCOM), through the Materiel Readiness Commands' (MRC) commanders, is responsible for loans of materiel controlled by DARCOM wholesale supply points.
(2) Major Army commands (MACOM) CGs and commanders in chief (CINCs) of unified commands (UCOMs) are responsible for loans of materiel from supporting units and installations.
(3) The Director of Military Support, Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations (ODCSOPS), is the DOD point of contact for the Federal Disaster Assistance Administration (FDAA), other Federal agencies, and the National Red Cross in disaster assistance matters.
§ 623.2
Loan policies.
(a)
Loan and approval policy
—(1)
Basic policies.
(i) Materiel is not loaned to non-DOD activities as a routine procedure. However, materiel in the Army inventory is available for loan for special purposes if approved. Approving authorities are listed in table 2-1; their addresses are in appendix B.
(ii) Loans will be approved or disapproved based on the purpose, duration of the loan, and consideration of the following factors which can take precedence over any loan.
(A) Military requirements and priorities.
(B) Continuity of military operations, troop survival, and the rehabilitation of essential military bases.
(C) Stocks and programed Army requirements. This includes prepositioned mobilization reserve stocks.
(D) Type classification with pending changes.
(E) Minimum diversion of Army stocks.
(F) The adequacy of the borrower's resources. Requesters will be encouraged to use their own resources.
(iii) Loan requests from civilian authorities or activities will normally enter Army channels at the installation or MACOM levels. If on-post or off-
post units receive loan requests, they will refer them to unit's supporting installation commander at once. Emergency loan requests will be relayed by telephone or electrically transmitted message.
(iv) When routine handling of a loan request would result in loss of human life, grave bodily harm, or major destruction of property, and when the lack of communication facilities prevents use of normal procedures, loans otherwise permitted by this regulation can be made with local approval. However, normal policy should be followed to the extent possible. If procedural requirements cannot be fully complied with, they must be met as soon as possible after the loan is made.
(v) Army materiel loaned under this part will be delivered to borrower “as is, where is” available.
(vi) Stocks of the least serviceable condition which are still suitable for the loan's purpose will be used. Logistic control code “C” materiel will be loaned before logistic control code “B” materiel. Logistic control code “B” materiel will be loaned before logistic control code “A” materiel. (Ref chap 9, AR 708-1.)
(vii) Commanders of medical treatment facilities (MTF) are subject to all the requirements of this regulation, including the requirement for reimbursement. However, in accordance with AR 360-61 which implements DOD Instruction 5410.19,
(A) Emergency loans of medical supplies (drugs, vaccines, etc.) may not be made without reimbursement, but the loan may not exceed 30 days and the medical supplies must be replaced in kind by the borrowing agency or activity; and
(B) Emergency loans of medical equipment not to exceed 15 days may be made without reimbursement if it is the practice in the community for other hospitals to make such loans. Equipment loans which exceed 15 days must be approved, in writing, by the MACOM commander and are subject to all the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 2667, including reimbursement.
(viii) Army property loaned to non-DOD activities will not be further loaned without approval of the original approving authority.
(ix) There will be no procurement or redistribution of assets to offset the effects of loans. Material will not be set aside, earmarked, assembled, or stockpiled to be available for use related to loans.
(x) Army materiel may be recalled from the borrower at any time to meet Army requirements.
(xi) Stock record accounting and financial transactions for loans will conform with existing regulations.
(xii) Borrowers are responsible for the care, custody, and proper use of materiel borrowed. Except as stated in this regulation, reimbursement will be required for damage, destruction, loss, fair depreciation in value, and for any Army repair, care, transportation, preservation, and protection of loaned equipment.
(xiii) Care, renovation, and repair of borrowed materiel will conform with the loan agreement.
(xiv) As indicated below, borrowers must provide signed loan agreements, provide surety bonds, and vehicular insurance prior to receipt of materiel. Loan agreements and bonds will be prepared in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
Borrower
Loan agreement required
Surety bond required
Vehicular insurance required
Army or other DOD activities
No
1
No
No.
Non-DOD Federal departments and Agencies
Yes
No
No.
Civil Authorities (State and Local Governments)
Yes
Yes
2
Yes.
2
Civilian Activities (veterans' organizations, youth groups, etc.)
Yes
Yes
Yes.
1
A hand receipt or other document assigning responsibility will suffice.
2
In emergency disaster relief cases, bonds and insurance may be provided after receipt of the materiel. (See paragraph (a)(4) of this section.)
(2)
Loans to DOD organizations.
Army materiel may be loaned to DOD activities for projects, programs, and mission requirements that support basic functions of the borrowing activity. Examples are field exercises, maneuvers, training exercises, including annual training (AT) of Reserve Components, and research development, test, and evaluation (RDTE).
(i) Loans of major end items belonging to MACOMs are approved by MACOM or UCOM commanders. Loans of materiel other than major end items are approved at commander/installation level.
(ii) Loans of materiel belonging to DARCOM (wholesale level) are approved as follows:
(A)
Materiels other than major end items.
By the director or deputy director of an MRC.
(B)
All other items.
By HQ DARCOM or commanders of MRCs unless loan would interfere with issue against DA Master Priority List (DAMPL) priorities, then by HQDA ODCSLOG (DALO-SMD).
(3)
Loans to federal departments/agencies.
Loans to Federal activities outside the DOD are usually provided under provisions of the Economy Act, 31 U.S.C. 686. Federal agencies borrowing DOD materiel using the provisions of this act are responsible for reimbursing the DOD for all DOD costs incident to the delivery, return, and repair of the materiel. The borrower is also responsible for reimbursing the DOD for depreciation if the depreciation cost is significant.
(4)
Disaster relief.
(i) CONUS/OCONUS. (A) In disaster situations local civil authorities must provide relief from their own resources. If this is not sufficient, and the American National Red Cross has a team at the disaster, requests for further assistance should be made to them. If the President has declared a major disaster or emergency, requests should be made to the regional director of the Federal Disaster Assistance Administration (FDAA). (See AR 500-60 for guidance.)
(B) The commanding General, US Army Forces Command (FORSCOM), acting for the Secretary of the Army (SA), is responsible for Army materiel support of disaster relief operations within the United States and the District of Columbia. UCOMs are responsible for disaster relief operations in US possessions and trust territories. These commanders are authorized to task DOD agencies and commands, consistent with defense priorities, to provide materiel in support of operations. A military representative will be appointed by the appropriate command to act as the DOD point of contact with the Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO) when military assistance is required during a Presidential declared disaster or emergency. When a disaster or emergency is of such magnitude, the disaster area may be geographically subdivided. A military representative will then be appointed for each FCO. All requests for military assistance will be passed through the FCO to the DOD military representative at the disaster area.
(C) The Director of Military Support (ODCSOPS), HQDA, acts at the DOD point of contact for the Administrator, FDAA, other Federal agencies, and the American National Red Cross in all disaster assistance matters.
(ii) Foreign. (A) The Department of State is responsible for deciding when emergency foreign disaster relief operations will be undertaken. This authority is delegated to Chiefs of Diplomatic Missions for disaster relief operations whose total costs will not exceed $25,000.
(B) Send queries on foreign disaster relief to HQDA (DAMO-ODS) (para 4, app B).
(5)
Civil disturbances.
The maintenance of law and order is primarily the responsibility of local and state authorities. In civil disturbance situations, a basic goal of the Federal Government is to minimize the involvement of active military forces. One of the most effective means of keeping Federal forces off the streets is to loan US Army civil disturbance type equipment to Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies and also to the National Guard. (For specific guidance see AR 500-50.)
(i) Requests for loan of Army materiel during or for expected civil disturbances are of three types with approval authority as follows:
(A)
Group one.
Arms, ammunition, tank-automotive equipment, and aircraft. Loans will be approved by the SA or his designee.
(B)
Group two.
Riot control agents, concertina wire, and similar military equipment which is not included in group one. Loans will be approved by the SA (or his designee), or by an Army task force commander employed at an
objective are during a civil disturbance.
(C)
Group three.
Protective equipment such as masks and helmets; body armor vests; other equipment not included in group one or two such as clothing, communications equipment, and searchlights; and the use of DOD facilities. Such loans will be approved by the SA (or his designee); by MACOMs; by the CGs of CONUS armies, MDW, and by commanders of UCOMs outside CONUS as applicable. (NOTE: Firefighting equipment will not be used for riot control).
(ii) Queries concerning loans in support of civil disturbances will be forwarded to the Director of Military Support, HQDA(DAMO-ODS), WASH DC 20310. (See app B.)
(6)
Terrorism.
(i) The Department of the Army is the DOD Executive Agent for support to the FBI in combating terrorism. Existing civil disturbance loan procedures, including categories of equipment, apply to equipment loans to the FBI for combating terrorism. Military resources will be provided only upon request of the Director, FBI, or the Senior FBI official present at the scene of a terrorist incident. It may be difficult in some situations to determine whether a practical incident fits the definition of terrorism. In these cases, commanders are authorized to accept the judgment of the FBI official making the request if it is supported by the available facts. (See para 3, table 2-1.)
(ii) For requests from the FBI in connection with terrorist incidents, any commander in the chain of command down to and including commanders of military installations are authorized to approve loans of group two and group three resources. (See paragraphs (a)(4)(1) (B) and (C) of this section.) Requests for equipment which involve technical/operating personnel, excluding fire-fighting equipment and explosive ordnance disposal, will be processed as a group one resource. For example, approval authority is retained by the DOD Executive Agent.
(7)
Aircraft piracy.
Assistance to other federal agencies in the protection of airways is provided through loans under guidance in paragraph 3, table 2-1. Specific limitations on such support are covered in AR 500-1.
(8)
Loan/lease to activities outside the Federal Government.
Title 10, U.S.C. 2667, authorizes the lease of Army materiel to non-DOD departments, agencies, activities, or individuals when it is determined that the materiel is not, for the period of the lease, needed for public use, is not excess property, and that the loan will promote the national defense or be in the public interest, (See AR 360-61.) Such a lease must not be for more than 1 year (or be renewed/extended for a total period of more than 5 years); it must provide that the lessee will pay a fair monetary rental. The fair monetary rental will be determined on the basis of prevailing commercial rates or computed according to sound commercial accounting practices for the fixing of rental on such property. This will include a return on capital investment and administrative cost as well as depreciation. The delegation of authority to lease is SAOSA-71-6, paragraph 1-5103, ADARS, the prescribed lease agreement is at paragraph 16-553, ADARS.
(b)
Loan agreements.
(1) Upon approval of a loan request and before shipment or issue of the materiel, the approving authority will complete a written loan agreement, DA Form 4881-R. In all cases, the statutory basis for the loan will be cited. The approving authority is acting for the DOD on loans to other Federal agencies, and for the United States on loans to civil authorities and special activities. The agreement will be signed by the approving authority and the borrowing activity. When emergency loans have been made as authorized by this AR, follow-up action will be taken at once to formalize the loan by completing a loan agreement.
(2) Loan agreements are mutually developed by the approving authority and the chief of the borrowing activity (or their designees). The agreements identify the responsibilities of all parties. They include terms and conditions of the loan. Appendix C illustrates a sample loan agreement, DA Form 4881-R (Agreement for the Loan of US Army Materiel), and specifies what the loan agreements will stipulate and contain. Also illustrated at appendix C is DA
Form 4881-2-R, which will be completed and appended to the loan agreement as “Exhibit I.”
(3) Loan agreements will be held by the approving authority until termination and final settlement of each loan.
(4) If the loan agreement is signed by someone other than the chief borrowing official, than a Certificate for Signature by an Alternate will be completed. (See appendix D for DA Form 4881-1-R.) It will be attached to the signed (by the borrower) copy of the agreement that is retained by the approving authority. DA Forms 4881-R, 4881-1-R, and 4881-2-R are reproduced locally on 8
1/2
by 11-inch paper.
(c)
Surety bonds.
(1) Some borrowers of Army materiel must post a surety bond. (See table 2-1 and DA Form 4881-3-R at app E.) Bonds ensure safe return of the borrowed materiel or reimbursement for any loss of or damage to the materiel. The bond will consist of—
(i) A properly executed surety bond with a certified bank check, cash, or negotiable US Treasury bonds, or
(ii) Notice of bond by a reputable bonding company deposited with the approving authority for the loan. Bonds will equal the total price of the borrowed items as shown in exhibit I to the loan agreement (app C, DA Form 4881-R). A “double” bond (bond equal to twice the value of the borrowed item(s)) will be required—
(A) For Army materiel loaned to the Red Cross for instruction and practice to aid the Army, Navy, or Air Force in time of war (10 U.S.C. 2542).
(B) For ordnance and ordnance stores loaned to high schools in the District of Columbia (10 U.S.C. 4653).
(2) The bond need not be posted by the borrowing agency itself. The source or originating agency for the bond is immaterial if the bond is valid. For example, to secure a loan, a State may post bond on behalf of a city, county, or other governmental body or authority within the State.
(3) In an emergency, when posting a bond would delay approval of an urgent loan request and when the total price is less than $1,000, the approval authority may approve the request. The approval is on the condition that the bond be posted within 5 days.
(4) Bond forfeitures or exceptions to mandatory forfeitures can only be made with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Army. Forfeitures will be based on actual expense incurred. Forfeitures do not release the borrowing agency from returning borrowed materiel or affect ownership. Bonds are normally forfeited under the following conditions:
(i) Materiel is not returned at the termination of a loan period or when return has been directed by the Army.
(ii) The borrowing agent refuses to pay for damages or other Army expenses.
(5) Surety bonds will be held by the approving authority until the loan is terminated and final settlement is made. At that time, the bond will be returned to the borrower.
(6) If US treasury bonds are posted as surety bond, the borrower must execute a power of attorney (DA Form 4481-4-R, app F). This will enable cashing of the treasury bonds if some forfeiture is required. DA Form 4881-3-R (Surety Bond) and DA Form 4881-4-R (Power of Attorney) will be reproduced locally on 8
1/2
by 11-inch paper.
(d)
Loan duration.
(1) Loan periods and extensions will be shown in table 2-2.
(2) Materiel will be loaned only for the number of days needed for the specific purpose for which borrowed. Loan extensions must be justified. The reason(s) why other means or other than Army materiel cannot be used must be included. Approval of loan extensions will be based on the merit of the reasons given.
(3) Loan extensions authorized beyond 1 year will not be approved unless the lender of the loaned materiel has inspected and inventoried the materiel to insure completeness and serviceability.
(e)
Types of DA materiel available for loan.
Examples of types of items that may be loaned, and examples of the types of organizations that may borrow Army materiel, are listed in table 2-1. Most loans will be nonexpendable items or expendable items not forecast to be consumed (durable items). Expendable items (e.g., expendability code X) will not be loaned unless approved as an exception.
Table 2-1—Loan Authority and Purpose
[See footnotes at end of table]
Requester
Authority and guidance
Normal approving authority
Examples of materiel authorized
1. DOD Activities
10 U.S.C. 2571
Secretary of the Army (or designee)
Materiel, supplies, and equipment.
2. Department of Agriculture (U.S. Forest Service) protection against wildfire
2
(see AR 500-60 for guidance)
3
31 U.S.C. 686; Memo of Understanding (MOU), Apr. 24, 1975; AR 500-60
Secretary of the Army (or designee)
Communications, earthmoving, and vehicular equipment.
Avalanche Control
3
10 U.S.C. 4655; 31 U.S.C. 686; AR 735-5; MOU Nov. 29, 1973
Secretary of the Army (or designee)
Communications, howitzers, etc.
3. Department of Justice (FBI)
10 U.S.C. 331; 10 U.S.C. 332; 10 U.S.C. 333
Transport aircraft,
1
helicopters, flares, parachutes, communications equipment, arms, vehicles, etc.
Aircraft Piracy
1
(see AR 500-1 for guidance)
10 U.S.C. 4655; 18 U.S.C. 1385; 31 U.S.C. 686; DODD 3025.12; AR 500-1
DOD General Counsel
1
or designee; in urgent cases, Deputy Director for Operations, NMCC
Terrorism
2
AR 500-50
See item 7 below for
2
approval authority by equipment classification
See item 8 below for
2
classification equipment.
Drug Enforcement Agency
1
31 U.S.C. 686; AR 735-5, par. 1-16; CSR 1-25
Asst SECDEF (or designee)
Same as above.
4. Treasury Department (U.S. Custom Service) (U.S. Secret Service)
1
18 U.S.C. 3056; 31 U.S.C. 686; AR 735-5, par. 1-16; DODD 3025.13; DODI 5030.34; AR 1-4
Asst SECDEF (or designee); Mil Asst to the President; followed by the Spec Asst to the SECDEF; (overseas) CINC, UCOM's
Same as above.
5. National Guard Equipment (loan to NG)
AR 735-5; 10 U.S.C. 2571
Secretary of the Army HQDA; CG FORSCOM; DARCOM
Material, supplies, and equipment.
6. Other Federal agencies emergency support
1
to Federal agencies (see AR 1-35 and AR 500-60 for guidance)
31 U.S.C. 686; AR 735-5; AR 1-35; AR 500-60; DODD 4000.19
Spec Asst SECDEF; Secretary of the Army
Material, supplies, and equipment for flood fighting, rescue operations, repair/restoration of flood control works, or hurricane flood protection works.
Support to FPA/GSA Regional Field Boards
2
(see AR 15-17 for guidance)
AR 15-17; DODD 5100.74; OEP Civ 8500.6
HQDA; CG FORSCOM; CG CONUSA
Transportation, emergency power and fuel.
Support to Inaugural Committee
10 U.S.C. 2543
SECDEF
Tents, flags, litters, ambulances, drivers, hospital furniture, camp appliances.
7. Support for Search and Rescue
AR 500-2; FM 20-150; AR 525-90
CG FORSCOM; GC CONUSA
Search craft and crews.
8. Civil Authorities Civil Disturbance
2
(see AR 500-50 for guidance)
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.;
10 U.S.C. 331; DODD 3025.12; AR 500-50; AR 350-7; DACD Plan; Garden Plot
Group One: DOD Executive Agent or designee
Group One: Arms, ammunition, tank-automotive equipment, and aircraft.
Group Two: DOD Executive Agent or designee, or task force command at objective area during the civil disturbance
Group Two: Riot control agents, concertina wire, and other like military equipment to be employed in control of civil disturbances.
Group Three: DOD Executive Agent or designee; CG MDW; CG CONUSA; and CINC's UCOM's, OCONUS
Group Three: Firefighting resources, equipment of a protective nature (masks, helmets, body armor vests) and use of Army facilities.
Disaster Relief
2
42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.;
DODD 3025.1; AR 500-60 and AR 930-5; DODD 5100.46
CG FORSCOM; CG DARCOM for DARCOM stocks; and CINC's, UCOM's, OCONUS
Same as 6 above.
Civil Defense
DODD 3025.10; AR 500-70
CG FORSCOM
Personnel, facilities, equipment, supplies, and services.
American National Red Cross for support of Army units in support of local civil government disaster relief
MOU between DOD and ANRC, June 24, 1975
HQDA; The Adjutant General (DAAG-ASO-R)
Personnel, equipment, office space, equipment, supplies; and custodial, utility, maintenance, and communication services.
9. Environmental Protection Agency and U.S. Coast Guard (oil and hazardous substances pollution spills)
33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.;
DODD 5030-41; AR 500-60
Same as disaster relief
Personnel, facilities, supplies, equipment, and transportation.
10. Boy and Girl Scouts of America (world or national jamborees)
3
10 U.S.C. 2544; AR 725-1, ch. 7
MACOM CG on behalf of CG DARCOM
Bedding, cots, chairs, vehicles, buildings, etc.
11. Civilian Marksmanship Program (Clubs and Schools)
3
10 U.S.C. 4308, 4311, 4651, 4652, 4653, 4685; AR 920-15; AR 920-20
Secretary of the Army (or designee)
Arms and accouterments.
12. Community Relations and Domestic Action Programs
1
(Youth Conservation Corps)
AR 28-19; AR 360-61; 42 U.S.C. 2701
Installation commanders
Equipment or buildings which may aid in instruction to the disadvantaged.
13. Veterans Organizations (State and National Conventions)
3
10 U.S.C. 2541
MACOM CG and CG CONUSA
Cots, bedding, chairs, tents, mattresses, pillows, unoccupied barracks, etc.
Burial Ceremonies
10 U.S.C. 4683
Secretary of the Army
Obsolete rifles.
14. Armies of the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia (Standardization Program)
10 U.S.C. 2667; AR 34-1
CG DARCOM (those for equip valued over $100,000 and those not favorably considered by DARCOM will be referred to the DCSRDA, HQDA, for approval)
Equipment.
15. Aid to District of Columbia Government in Combating Crime
2
DODD 5030.46; CSR 500-4
Secretary of the Army (or designee)
Communications, vehicles, aircraft, arms, etc.
16. Departments, agencies, municipalities, organizations, activities, and individuals
10 U.S.C. 2667; SAOSA-71-6, par. 1-5103, ADARS
Heads of Procuring Activity
Army property, not excess requirements, but not needed for period of lease. (See delegation of authority.)
17. Red Cross (Aid to DOD in time of war)
10 U.S.C. 2602; AR 930-5
DAAG
Office space, supplies and equipment; uniforms.
18. Army Flying Clubs
AR 230-1; DODD 1330.2
DAAG; CG FORSCOM
Army aircraft.
19. Civilian Activities
10 U.S.C. 2572; AR 870-15; AR 870-20
Chief, Military History
Historical properties and military art.
20. Civilian Educational Institutions
10 U.S.C. 4654
Secretary of the Army
Quartermaster supplies.
1
DA DCSOPS, Director of Military Support, has responsibility for these staff functions.
2
DA DCSOPS, Director of Military Support, has responsibility for these executive agent functions. (See app. A for definition of this term.)
3
DA DCSLOG, Director of Supply and Maintenance, has responsibility for these staff functions.
Table 2-2—Loan Periods
Borrower/purpose
Initial
Loan periods
1
extension
1. DOD Activities
As needed for mission accomplishment
As needed for mission accomplishment.
2. Army National Guard (loan of equipment)
For minimum essential period as determined by requirements
For minimum essential period as determined by requirements.
3. Department of Agriculture (U.S. Forest Service) (protection against wildfire)
90 days
90 days.
4. Department of Justice (FBI) (Aircraft piracy)
For minimum essential period
For minimum essential period.
(Drug Enforcement Agency)
1 year or less as determined by requirements
1 year or less.
5. Treasury Department (U.S. Customs Service)
1 year or less as determined by requirements
1 year or less.
(U.S. Secret Service)
For minimum essential period as determined by requirements
For minimum essential period as determined by requirements.
6. Environmental Protection Agency/U.S. Coast Guard
For duration of requirements
7. Other Federal Agencies
For minimum essential period
1 year.
8. Civil Agencies (Civil disturbances) Type I
15 days during actual disorder
15 days.
Type II
90 days in anticipation of a disorder
90 days.
(Disaster relief)
For minimum essential period, no extension for use during rehabilitation unless requested by the FDAA
9. Boy and Girl Scouts of America (World or National Jamborees)
For duration of “Jamboree” plus period en route to or return from Jamborees
10. Civilian Marksmanship (Clubs and Schools)
1 year
1 year.
11. Civilian Community (Relations and Domestic Action Programs)
As justified by local requesters
12. American National Red Cross for support of Army units in support of local civil Government disaster relief
Same as above for duration of requirements (office equipment)
Same as above.
13. Veterans' Organizations
15 days
15 days.
14. To Armies of the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia (Standardization Program)
1 year or less as determined by requirements
As negotiated.
15. Civilian Organizations:
a. Arms and accouterments
1 year or less as determined by requirements
1 year.
b. DLA stock fund items
120 days
30 days.
c. Medical equipment
15 days
As negotiated.
d. Medical supplies (drugs, vaccines, etc. must be replaced in kind)
30 days
As negotiated.
e. All other items
Requester justification
As negotiated.
16. DA materiel provided under 10 U.S.C. 2667
1 year
1 year.
1
All extensions or loan renewals which extends the overall loan period beyond 1 year must be approved by the Secretary of the Army (or designee).
§ 623.3
Submission of requests for loan of Army materiel.
(a)
General.
(1) Loan requests will be expedited according to the situation's urgency. A situation may be so serious that waiting for instructions or approval from a higher authority is unwarranted. Commanders will then take action as required to save human life, prevent human suffering, or reduce property damage or destruction. (See § 623.2(b)(1).) Such emergency actions will be reported at once to higher authority according to § 623.7.
(2) Requests to the US Army for loan, or loan extension, will be promptly sent by the Army element that received the request through channels to the approving authority shown in table 2-1 or as specified in appropriate regulations.
(3) Loan requests will be made by the head of the Federal agency, civil authority, or civilian activity desiring the materiel. An exception is that requests from the Federal Disaster Assistance Administration (FDAA) will normally be initiated by an FDAA regional director rather than by the administrator. The requests should be made directly to the approving authorities shown in table 2-1.
(b)
The Army National Guard (ARNG).
Loan requests for property belonging to ARNG will be made under National Guard Regulation 735-12. (See para 5, table 2-1.)
(c)
General procedures
—(1)
DOD activities.
DOD activities will borrow Army materiel as follows:
(i) Requests will be made in writing citing—
(A) Detailed justification for loan to include urgency of need.
(B) Duration of loan.
(C) Funds to defray transportation and handling.
(D) Serviceability requirements.
(ii) Approving authority involved will—
(A) Forward a loan agreement to requester. Loan agreements within DOD will often consist of letter requests, approving endorsements, and materiel issue document (DD 1348-1) transferring temporary accountability. Between units and activities, a hand receipt may be used as the loan agreement.
(B) Furnish positive identification of item to be loaned.
(C) Provide instructions for delivery of equipment.
(iii) DOD recipient of loaned Army materiel will—
(A) Forward accepted loan agreement to approving authority (all actions can be accomplished by electrically transmitted messages).
(B) Provide geographic location of equipment and specific activity that is responsible for care and preservation of loaned equipment.
(C) Return equipment to Army in condition received with normal allowance for fair wear and tear.
(2)
Non-DOD activities.
Non-DOD activities, including Federal agencies will request loan of Army materiel as follows:
(i) Non-DOD activities, and agencies, will send routine requests by letter 45 days before the materiel is required. Federal agencies may use Standard Form 344 (Multiuse Standard Requisitioning/Issue System Document). Requests will include the following:
(A) The DA approving authority. See table 2-1.
(B) Date request is submitted.
(C) Title of requesting agency and/or person authorized to receive or pick up the borrowed materiel. Be specific; e.g., Special Agent in Charge John Doe, FBI, Anytown, USA, (telephone number with area code) 123-456-7890.
(D) Type of loan; e.g., Boy Scout National Jamboree, American Legion Convention, etc. (with a short summary of circumstances).
(E) Statement that none of the requested materiel is internally available to the requesting activity.
(F) Statement that this support is not reasonably available from local government or commercial sources.
(G) Authority for the loan (if known); e.g., public law, US code, executive order, etc. See table 2-1.
(H) Positive identification of the type and quantity of items required. If national stock numbers and nomenclature are not available, identify the items needed by type, model, size, capacity, caliber, etc.
(I) Geographic location where the materiel will be located and used.
(J) Proposed duration of the loan.
(K) Statement that the agency has, or will ensure capability to properly operate, maintain, secure, and care for the borrowed materiel.
(L) If firearms are requested, a statement that adequate facilities are available to secure the arms. See § 623.5(a)(4).
(M) A statement that the borrowing activity will assume all responsibilities, liabilities, and costs related to the movement, use, care, security, loss, damage, and repair of the loaned materiel.
(N) Citation of funds to cover reimbursable costs. Also, a statement that an adequate bond will be provided, if required.
(O) A statement that the loan agreement prepared by the Army will be signed by the “responsible official” of the borrowing activity (or designee).
(P) Name, address, and telephone number of the person who will serve as the point of contact for the requesting agency, authority, or activity.
(Q) Complete instructions for delivery of the equipment to ensure that shipping instructions in the request are consistent with the urgency of the situation. State whether a small quantity shipped by air, express, or other fast means will satisfy immediate needs until bulk shipments can arrive. Also state quantity immediately required.
(R) If applicable, the number of persons to be accommodated.
(ii) Urgent requests may be made to meet expected or actual emergencies. Such requests may be made by telephone or by electrically transmitted message. Include information required in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (A) through (R) of this section to the extent possible. The request will be presented to the approving authority. The borrower will then send a complete written request to formalize the emergency request.
(iii) If approval of the loan is granted, approving authorities will contact accountable property officers at CONUS installations (equivalent level overseas), or MRC item managers to determine which items are available. Installation requests to MRCs will state that the installation resources could not meet the loan requirements. Availability decisions will be based on normal management criteria including
past and anticipated demand, asset balances, order-ship time, repair rate and repair cycles, and procurement schedules. If requested items are available and approved for issue, the approving authority (or designee) will—
(A) Negotiate and agreement;
(B) Obtain surety bond from the borrower when required;
(C) Provide reproduced copies of the signed documents to the appropriate accountable property office along with authorization to make the loan.
(iv) Approving authorities will maintain a system of numerical control for all loans. The accountable property officer will enter this number on all transaction documents related to each specific loan to include requisition, issue, shipping, turn-in, and financial documents.
(3)
The US Secret Service (USSS).
(i) Army regulation 1-4 provides policies and procedures for Army support to the Secret Service. Support will be provided only on the request of the Director, United States Secret Service or his authorized representative. It will be provided only to assist the United State Secret Service in performance of its statutory protective functions.
(ii) Routine requests are sent by the United States Secret Service direct to the Office of the Special Assistant to the SECDEF for approval. Approved requests involving Army resources are tasked through HQDA (DAMO-ODS) to the proper command. Approved requests for resources of other Services are tasked direct to the proper Service.
(iii) Approved requests for resources to be used in oversea areas (regardless of Service) will be passed from the Office of the Special Assistant to the SECDEF to the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) for tasking of the proper unified command.
(iv) In urgent situations, the United States Secret Service may request military resources from the nearest military commander who is authorized to take action consistent with the urgency. As soon as possible, they will seek guidance/approval through command channels to the approval authority (Spec Asst to the SECDEF).
(4)
Drug and narcotics interdiction activities.
All non-DOD Federal agencies requesting DOD resource in support of drug or narcotics interdiction activities should send requests through their headquarters to DOD, ATTN: Deputy Assistant SECDEF (Program Management), WASH DC 20314. Concurrently, information pertaining to the request should be sent to HQDA (DAMO-ODS) (para 4, app B), or relayed by telephone (AUTOVON 225-2003 or the Army Operations Center 851-1800 during nonduty hours). The Deputy Assistant SECDEF will pass approved request to HQDA (DAMO-ODS), through the Office, Under Secretary of the Army, for determination of availability and readiness impact. If approved by the Under Secretary of the Army, ODCSOPS (DAMO-ODS) will task the proper MACOM to provide support. Requests for extension or changes to agreements will be processed as noted in tables 2-1, 2-2 and paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(5)
The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(i) Requests for aircraft piracy assistance, received from Federal authorities by Army field commands or activities, will be forwarded through command channels by telephone (confirmed by electrically transmitted message) to the Military Support Division, ODCSOPS (DAMO-ODS), AUTOVON 255-3848/7433/2003 (WATS 202-695-2003). These requests will be approved by the DOD General Counsel (or designee).
(ii) The requests will then be sent to the National Military Command Center (NMCC). It will coordinate between the lending accountable property officer and the borrower.
(iii) In urgent cases, the Deputy Director for Operations, NMCC, may approve requests upon his or her own responsibility. This is subject to a later report to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the DOD General Counsel.
(iv) Approved requirements will be passed to the Secretary of the Army by telephone and confirmed by electrically transmitted message. The Secretary of the Army will then assign the requirement to the proper command (or staff agency) which will contact the designated Federal civil official and confirm the details of the request.
Modification of the requirement to better perform the mission is authorized if the Federal official agrees.
(6)
Enviromental Protection Agency (EPA), US Coast Guard (USCG), or National Response Team (NRT).
Non-DOD Federal agency requests for loan of materiel to combat oil and hazardous substance pollution spills will be made directly to the Commanding General, FORSCOM. Requests will be made by an “On Scene Coordinator” (OSC) of the EPA, or by the USCG acting for the Department of Transportation. The pollution spill NRT may also initiate requests. Approval authority is shown in table 2-1.
(d)
Civil authorities.
Loans of materiel to civil authorities for use during civil disturbances and disasters will be made as follows:
(1)
Civil disturbances.
Requests for Army materiel in anticipation of (or during) civil disturbances will be promptly sent through command channels to the approving authority (UCOM commanders will coordinate requests originating from areas outside CONUS) as follows:
(i) Requests for resources that require Secretary of the Army approval will be sent through channels to HQDA (DAMO-ODS) (para 4, app B).
(ii) Requests for group three resources (§ 623.2(a)(5)) that are not available to commanders having the approval authority will be sent through channels to HQDA (DAMO-ODS). Intermediate commands may approve and make available the requested resources.
(iii) Requests received by other DOD agencies will be referred to local Army installation commanders for processing.
(2)
Disaster relief.
Requests for loan of materiel to support disaster relief will be handled as follows:
(i) Valid requests for disaster relief assistance (see § 623.2(a)(4) for decisionmaking process) will be given to the DOD liaison (a military officer) assigned to the disaster; or forwarded to the CONUS Army commander in which the disaster occurs. (See appendix G.) If no Federal Disaster Assistance Administration (FDAA) official (HUD Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO)) is present at the disaster scene, requests may be received from the Red Cross.
(ii) HUD Regional Directors for FDAA, or FCOs, will send requests for loan of materiel to the Commanding General, FORSCOM, or to the proper CONUS Army commander. (Requests for Defense Civil Preparedness Agency (DCPA) resources will be sent to DCPA regional offices.)
(e)
Civilian activities
—(1)
Veterans' Organizations.
Loan requests by authorized veterans' organizations (as listed in VA Bulletin 23A) will be sent to the commander of the CONUS Army area (or Commander, MDW), for the area where the materiel will be required. (See appendix G.)
(2)
Scouting loans.
National and regional scout executives will send requests (restricted to DOD support of national and world jamborees) according to chapter 7, AR 725-1. (See § 621.4 of this title.)
(3)
Loans/Leases under the provisions of Title 10 U.S.C. 2667.
Requests for loans from other civil activities and organizations may come into the DOD through various channels; e.g., telephone call to local installation commander, letter to Congressmen, or directly to the Secretary of Defense or Army. Each request will be forwarded to the authority having the item and having the authority to approve the request. (See appendix B and table 2-1.) In cases where approval is questionable, the request may be submitted through channels to HQDA (DALO-SMD) WASH DC 20310 (para 2, app B) recommending approval/disapproval action.
(f)
Loans to the United Kingdom (UK), Canada, and Australia.
All requests for loans (restricted to materiel for use in the “Standardization Program”) to the UK, Canada, or Australia will be sent to Commander, DARCOM, ATTN DRC-IRD for approval. AR 795-204 addresses loans to other allied governments. (See DOD Military Assistance and Sales Manual, DOD 5105.38-M.)
(g)
Special materiel requests
—(1)
Loan of Communications Security (COMSEC) Equipment.
Subject to provisions of this regulation, requests for loan of COMSEC equipment will be sent to the Commander, US Army Communications Security Logistics Agency (para
24, app B) for approval, loan action, and establishment of loan records. All loans of Army COMSEC equipment to civilian authorities or activities will be according to Technical Bulletin 380-41. Standard Form 153 will be annotated to show purpose of the loan, expected date of return, and authority for the loan. A copy will be sent to the Director, National Security Agency (NSA), ATTN: S3, Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755.
(2)
Loan of arms and accouterments.
Requests for loan of arms and accouterments will be sent by requesting agencies directly to the Secretary of the Army, Military Support Division, HQDA (DAMO-ODS) (para 4, app B). Requests received out of this channel will be returned to the originator for resubmission. The Secretary of the Army (or designee) is the approval authority. See § 623.5 for procedures.
(3)
War reserves and operational project stocks.
Regulatory guidance with respect to loan of war reserves and operational project stocks to DOD organizations is found in chapter 8, AR 710-1. Loans of war reserves and operational project stocks to non-DOD activities will be according to this regulation and must be approved by HQDA (DALO-SMW) (para 3, app B).
(4)
Loan of historical property and art.
Requests for loans of Army historical property and military art will be sent to the Commander, US Army Center of Military History (para 4, app B). Specific information on such loans is found in AR 870-15 and AR 870-20.
§ 623.4
Accounting procedures.
(a)
Loan document format.
(1) When the lending accountable property officer receives copies of the loan request, loan agreement, surety bond (if required), and written loan authorization from the approving authority, the loan request will be converted to Military Standard Requisitioning and Issue Procedures requisition formal (DD Form 1348) as follows: (NOTE: In emergencies, authorization may be made by telephone. The format request, agreement, bond, and authorization will follow. Informal records should be also maintained.)
Card columns
Code or data
1-3
“AOE”.
4-6
RIC of NICP (lender).
7
Media and status code.
8-22
National stock number.
23-24
Unit of issue.
25-29
Quantity.
30-43
Document number.
(30-35)
DODAAC of the requisitioner, if applicable, otherwise DODAAC of accountable property officer (lender).
(36-39)
Julian date.
(40-43)
Serial number.
44
“N” for nonrecurring demand.
45-50
Supplemental address (loanee DODAAC) for DOD units. For non-DOD activities enter the shipping destination.
(45)
“Y”.
(46-49)
Julian date of receipt of loan request.
(50)
Alphabetic (except I or O) indicating which loan of the day is first; e.g., A-first, B-second, etc.
51
“M”.
52-53
“G4” for loans to nonresearch and development activities. “G6” for loans to research and development activities.
54-56
Blank.
57-59
Project code if applicable. Note: This will be the same for all loans. Project codes will be assigned by Chief, Logistic Systems Support Activity, ATTN: DRXLS-LCC, Chambersburg, PA 17201. It will be sent by message to all interested addresses.
60-61
Priority.
62-64
RDD.
65-66
Blank.
67-69
Depot RIC.
70
Purpose code.
71
Condition code.
72
Management code.
73-80
Blank.
(2) Loaned property will be kept on the accountable records of the owning property account. The entry showing the quantities loaned will be supported by DD Form 1348-1 (receipt document), and copies of the loan agreement and surety bond (if required). The receipt document must be signed by the responsible official of the borrowing activity. It is then returned to the accountable property officer as a valid hand receipt for property accounting purposes.
(3) Loans will be processed by accountable property officers according to normal supply procedures except as modified by this regulation.
(4) Accountable property officers will keep loan files with enough documentation to provide an audit trail for loan transactions and a single source of accounting and billing for reimbursement. No separate property book accounts will be set up for these loans.
Items, with dates shipped, will be identified by use of “loan control numbers” in loan jacket files and in supporting documentation. The files will include copies of—
(i) The loan request. If the request was made by telephone (urgent), a copy of the Memorandum for Record prepared to summarize the call will be used.
(ii) The loan agreement.
(iii) The surety bond (with cash, certified check, US treasury bonds, or adequate bond from a bonding company).
(iv) The approving authorization to make the loan.
(v) DD Form 1348-1 used for shipping the items.
(vi) A master loan register with the loan control number and shipping document number.
(b)
Shipment of loaned materiel.
(1) Loaned Army materiel will be shipped only to the chief of the borrowing activity or to a designee authorized to receive and sign for the materiel. To keep the materiel out of unauthorized hands, consignees (receivers) will be advised of the items and quantities to be loaned; the source of supply; whether the items are to be picked up or shipped; and of shipments made.
(2) All shipments of loaned equipment will be documented on DOD single line item “release or receipt” document (DD Form 1348-1). These will be initiated by the lending accountable property officer. Packing, crating, handling, estimated transportation costs, and serial numbers (if applicable) of items shipped will be shown on all copies. The consignee will be given advance copies of the DD Form 1348-1 as notice of shipment, and a list of DD Form 1348-1 document numbers. For loans to non-DOD activities two copies of the certificate below will be prepared by the accountable property officer (see fig. 1). It will accompany the DD Forms 1348-1.
“I certify receipt of and assume responsibility for the Army materiel listed on DD Form 1348-1. Control numbers on DD Form 1348-1 follow. The items were received in good condition except as noted on the DD Form 1348-1. Serial numbers have been verified (omit if not applicable).”
Signature of responsible officer
Typed name of responsible officer
Address of responsible officer
Date certificate was signed

# Figure 1. Sample receipt certificate
(3) One copy of each signed DD Form 1348-1 (for non-DOD activities, one copy of the signed certificate) will be returned to the accountable property officer. Also, one copy of each will be kept in the borrower's file.
(4) The installation or depot transportation officer is responsible for coordinating movement of the items that must be shipped.
(5) Shipments, including those to foreign countries, will be made on commercial bills of lading (CBL). Freight charges will be paid by the borrower. The CBL will cite proper project codes. NOTE: In emergencies where use of CBL would delay shipment, government bills of lading (GBL) may be used subject to later reimbursement. Shipments to Boy Scout World Jamborees in foreign countries will be by GBL unless otherwise specified by the Boy Scouts.
(6) Shipments will be consolidated to the maximum to get the lowest charges available.
(7) Separate shipping instructions will be provided for each recipient, convention, jamboree, etc., to ensure correct consignee and railhead addresses.
(8) Transportation will be at no expense to the government. The Defense Transportation Services (Military Sealift Command, Military Airlift Command, and Military Traffic Management Command) will send all billings for such transportation costs to the US Army Finance and Accounting Center (USAFAC). The USAFAC will then bill the fiscal station servicing the accountable property office that made the loan. This fiscal station will then bill the borrower for these transportation costs. Army materiel loaned to non-DOD activities is not authorized for oversea movement on a space available basis by MSC or MAC without their prior approval.
(c)
Receipt of borrowed property.
(1) The person authorized to receive the materiel (whether shipped or picked
up) will check the quantities received against the quantities shown on the DD Form 1348-1. This person will also verify the condition of the materiel. Any variation in quantity or condition must be resolved at once. If the shortage or damage is not due to a common carrier, the borrower will give the accountable property officer the National Stock Number, document number, and an explanation of the variation at once. This establishes a basis for assessing charges on termination of the loan. Replacement shipments, when required, will be covered by a DD Form 1348-1. All variations will be noted on the reverse side of the bill of lading.
(2) When a DD Form 1348-1 has not been received by the borrower and does not accompany the shipment, an informal report will be made to the accountable property officer at once. It will include the nomenclature, quantities, condition, and if applicable, the model numbers and serial number of all material received.
(3) When shipment has been verified, the borrower (or designee) will enter the quantity received on two copies of the DD Form 1348-1. Serial numbers will also be entered for serial numbered items. The completed copies of the DD Form 1348-1 will be signed by the authorized person. One copy of the DD Form 1348-1 and one copy of the signed certificate (receipt of the materiel) will be returned to the accountable property officer.
(4) If shipments are received damaged or short, take action described in § 623.4(g).
(d)
Accounting by borrower.
Non-DOD borrowing activities should maintain a system of jacket files. This should include copies of all documents that authorize the loan of materiel and relate to loan transactions. Such files will insure return of materiel within the approved loan period. Files should be retained for audit or any other purpose as required. These files may be destroyed upon turn in of the borrowed materiel, final completion of accounting, and reimbursement for Army costs related to the loan. DOD borrowers will conform to the requirements contained in existing regulations.
(e)
Return of borrowed materiel
—(1)
General.
(i) Borrowed materiel will be returned to the Army in the condition received, less fair wear and tear, unless the terms of agreement specify otherwise.
(ii) Property for which repair cost is claimed will be held at the Army depot or installation until final charges are determined and a release is given by respective property officers.
(iii) Return of materiel loaned to rifle clubs and schools will conform with § 623.5.
(2)
Accountable property officer actions.
(i) At the end of a loan period, recall, or upon notice by the borrower that the loaned materiel is no longer needed, the accountable property officer will send a letter of instruction to the borrower for return of the materiel. He will verify or modify the turn-in instructions provided in the loan agreement.
(ii) These procedures will be used by accountable property officers to terminate loans:
(A) For loans up to 30 days no specific termination action is necessary except when materiel is not returned by the loan due date. Then, a written loan termination notice will be sent to the borrower. A follow-up notice will be sent every 15 days until the materiel is returned or other settlement is made.
(B) For all other loans 15 days before the loan is due, a loan termination notice will be sent by the lending activity to the borrower verifying (or modifying) the turn-in instructions.
(C) Follow-up of loan termination notice will be made every 15 days until the materiel is returned or other settlement is made.
(iii) After receiving inspection reports (§ 623.4(e)(3)) and final shipment receipts, the accountable property officer will clear the loan records.
(iv) The accountable property officer will then advise the borrower of the transaction completion by furnishing receipted copies of the receiving document(s).
(v) The accountable property officer will notify the servicing finance and accounting office (FAO) of any reimbursement required.
(3)
Actions by the receiving installation, depot, or arsenal.
(i) The installation,
depot, or arsenal receiving activities will inspect returned materiel.
(A) If the quantity received differs from the quantity shipped, the actual quantity received will be entered on the DD Form 1348-1.
(B) If the condition of the property differs from that noted on the DD Form 1348-1, the variation will be stated.
(ii) Loaned materiel returned in an unserviceable condition will be inspected by qualified technical inspectors at installation level and by quality assurance activities at depots to determine condition code.
(A) If the condition of returned materiel is the same as noted on the receipt document or the prepositioned materiel receipt card, the item will be processed as a normal receipt.
(B) If there is a discrepancy in the actual condition of the item or in the assigned code on the receipt document, obtain an estimate of repair cost and continue normal receipt documentation processing.
(C) The receiving depot or installation will prepare an Inspection and Surveillance Report for each returned item that needs repair. Cards will also be prepared for shortages. The cards will include the cost of equipment repair or the value of shortage. A minimum of two copies of each report will be sent to the proper acountable property officer.
(f)
Loan inventories.
(1) If a loan has been approved or extended (by the SA) for a period longer than 1 year, the accountable property officer will inspect and reconcile loan accounts with the borrower at the end of each 12-month period.
(2) If no discrepancies are noted, the accountable property officer will file the signed annual inventory form in the borrower's memorandum receipt jacket file.
(3) If the inventory shows that amounts and kinds of Army materiel for which the borrower is responsible differ from that actually in his possession, the accountable property officer will—
(i) For overages, assume accountability for the overages noted on the annual inventory form. Use a copy of the annual inventory form as a debit voucher to the account. No approval of this voucher is needed.
(ii) For shortages, act to obtain reimbursement for the value of the missing property or to adjust the discrepancy by report of survey.
(g)
Lost, damaged, and destroyed materiel.
(1) When loss or damage occurs during shipment, DOD and Federal agencies will refer to AR 55-38 for specific instructions.
(2) Damage or loss which is the fault of the carrier will be billed to the carrier after reconciliation.
(3) Army materiel lost, damaged, or destroyed while in the possession of rifle clubs or schools will be handled as described in § 623.5.
(4) Any Army materiel loaned at the request of an FDAA Regional Director which is not returned according to instructions in this chapter will be reported to the borrower and to the FDAA Regional Director. The latter will arrange for proper reconciliation and reimbursement.
§ 623.5
Loan of arms and accouterments.
(a)
General.
(1) Loan of arms and accouterments requires special processing and handling. Loans to DOD and non-DOD activities will be handled as a normal loan according to instructions in this section with the added requirement of maintaining serial number visibility. Loans of arms and accouterments as included herein are not applicable to Army National Guard (ARNG).
(2) The Commanding General, Armament Readiness Command (ARRCOM) (ATTN: DRSAR-MMS) has been designated by Commanding General, Materiel Development and Readiness Command (DARCOM), as being responsible for keeping a centralized serial number visibility record for all small arms made for the Army. ARRCOM maintains accountable property records for loans to organizations such as the Director of Civilian Marksmanship (DCM); and for loans to non-DOD activities such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United States Secret Service (USSS), United States Customer Service (USCS); or rifle clubs, educational institutions, and veterans' organizations.
(3) Requests for loan of arms which are type classified standard (logistics control code A or B) will be filled with the lowest type classified items available.
(4) Borrowers of Army arms will be fully responsible for the care, custody, and proper use of loaned materiel. Physical security measures must be equal to or greater than the minimum requirements set forth in Army Regulation 190-11 and Army Regulation 190-49.
(5) If borrowed arms are lost, stolen, or unaccounted for, the borrower must inform the lender (accountable property officer), the local police, and the FBI within 24 hours after discovery.
(6) This regulation does not apply to arms issued to Reserve Officers Training Corps units under the National Defense Act. Army Regulation 710-2 is applicable.
(b)
Loans to civilian activities (other than rifle clubs and educational institutions).
(1) Arms and accouterments may be loaned by the Army to civilian authorities and to civilian activities as follows: (§ 623.5(c) covers rifle clubs and institutions.)
(i) For use in protection of public money and property (10 U.S.C. 4655).
(ii) Obsolete or condemed rifles (not more than 10), slings, and cartridge belts may be loaned to local units of any national veteran's organization for use by that unit in ceremonies. (For example, a funeral for a former member of the armed forces.) The organization must be recognized by the Veterans' Administration (VA) (10 U.S.C. 4683).
(iii) Arms and accouterments loaned to organizations listed in § 623.5(c)(1) for a period of 1 year or less will be accounted for by ARRCOM. Loans of items that exceed 1 year will be accounted for by the DCM under § 623.5(c).
(2) Requests for loan (or extension of loan) of Army arms and accouterments will be sent by requesting agencies through HQDA (DALO-SMD), (para 2, app B) to the Secretary of the Army. Requests received outside of this channel will be returned to the originator for direct submission to the address above.
(3) Requests approved by the Secretary of the Army (or Under Secretary) will be sent to ARRCOM, (para 12 app B) Rock Island, IL 61299, for completion of a formal loan agreement and issue of items.
(4) Requisitioning, accounting, and reimbursement procedures are given in § 623.4. However, upon receipt of signed copies of DD Form 1348-1 with the listing of verified serial numbers from the consignee, the ARRCOM Arms and Accouterments Property Officer will send the required transaction data to the DOD Small Arms Serialization Program (DODSASP) at ARRCOM. These data will indicate that the small arms on loan to other Government agencies are accounted for under DOD Activity Address Code W52P41.
(5) Shipment and returns are described in § 623.4 except as follows:
(i) The responsible property officer for materiel or loan will request disposition instructions from the accountable property officer when loaned materiel is no longer needed or at the end of the loan period. Loaned materiel may be withdrawn from the borrowing activity at any time to satisfy military requirements.
(ii) The accountable property officer will:
(A) Issue shipping instructions for the return of property to a designated installation. The letter of instruction will contain a MILSTRIP document number (AR 725-50) for each line item scheduled for return to be used for the shipment. The shipper will be directed to cite this document number on the shipping document.
(B) Prepare and submit to the receiving installation a prepositioned materiel receipt card (DOD Materiel Receipt Document (DD Form 1486)) (Document Identifier DWC) as advance notice of the shipment.
(
1
) Exception data will be annotated as follows: “Return of Loan from Other Government Agency—Report Receipt of Arms and Accouterments Accountable Property Officer, ATTN: DRSAR-MMD.”
(
2
) A copy of the letter of shipping instructions (paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section) will be inclosed with the prepositioned materiel receipt card for information.
(iii) Upon receipt at the receiving installation, property will be inspected
immediately. Cost of repairing unserviceable items and cost of replacement, if irreparable, will be determined at time of inspection. The MILSTRIP receipt card will be mailed to the accountable property officer with estimated damage cost and detailed materiel condition as exception data.
(iv) Upon notification of materiel receipt, the accountable property officer will:
(A) Clear the loan record with a credit entry and process the receipt to the inventory records as an increase on hand to asset balance.
(B) Furnish receipted copies of the receiving document to the consignor and the responsible property officer closing the transaction.
(c)
Loans to rifle clubs and educational institutions
—(1)
Authorization.
Arms and accouterments may be loaned to rifle clubs and educational institutions for periods established in table 2-2 under the following conditions:
(i) Rifled arms may be loaned to civilian rifle clubs for promotion of marksmanship training among able-bodied US citizens (10 U.S.C. 4308).
(ii) Arms, tentage, and equipment, as the Secretary of the Army deems necessary, may be loaned to an educational institution to provide proper military training where there is no ROTC, but there is a course in military training prescribed by the Secretary of the Army and there are at least 100 physically fit males over 14 years of age (10 U.S.C. 4651).
(iii) Magazine rifles and appendages may be loaned to schools having a uniformed corps of cadets of sufficient number for target practice. Models loaned must not be in use at the time, or needed for a proper reserve supply (10 U.S.C. 4652).
(iv) Ordnance and ordnance stores may be loaned to Washington, DC, high schools for military instruction and practice (10 U.S.C. 4653).
(v) Obsolete ordnance and ordnance stores may be loaned to educational institutions and to State soldiers', sailors', and orphans' homes for drill and instruction if recommended by the Governor of the state or territory concerned (10 U.S.C. 4685).
(2)
Director of Civilian Marksmanship (DCM).
The President may detail an officer of the Army or Marine Corps as Director of Civilian Marksmanship (10 U.S.C. 4307). The DCM is responsible for—
(i) Control and accountability of Army materiel issued to civilian rifle clubs;
(ii) Policies and procedures for the issue of arms and ammunition to civilian rifle clubs; and
(iii) Ensuring proper bonding of clubs before issue of Army materiel. The Secretary of the Army has further made the DCM similarly responsible for loans to institutions (schools).
(3)
Property transactions.
US Army Armament Materiel Readiness Command (ARRCOM) will transfer accountability for materiel shipped to civilian rifle clubs and institutions to the DCM. The DCM will keep a mission stock record account for these items as shown in Army Regulation 710-2. In addition, the account will note all property transactions between the DCM and civilian rifle clubs and institutions as follows:
(i) Loan and return of arms and accouterments to (from) civilian rifle clubs and institutions will not be posted to the accountable record as loss or gain vouchers. They will be posted as “loan transactions” with the DCM retaining accountability. In addition to debit, credit, and adjustment voucher files, the DCM accountable property officer will keep a “loan voucher” file in two sections; e.g., “active” and “terminated.”
(A) The active section (suspense for items on loan) will contain DD Form 1348-1 or a letter acknowledging receipt of the items. (The signature of the borrower will be according to paragraph (4) (v) or (vi) of this section.) This section will contain a folder for each activity serviced by the DCM. The active loan vouchers will be filed in National Stock Number and voucher number sequence. This section serves as the DCM loan record.
(B) The terminated section (for items no longer on loan) will contain the original loan shipping document (loan voucher). The return receipt document which terminates the loan will be attached. The receipt document will contain the original shipping document number and the return advice code “IQ.”
(ii) Shipments of expendable items (e.g., ammunition, targets, etc.) will be posted as a credit to the accountable record. Accountability will be dropped (These items are deemed to have been consumed at the time of issue).
(iii) Expendable items returned by rifle clubs and institutions will be posted to the accountable record as a debit voucher. The DCM will determine disposition of these items.
(4)
Requisition procedures.
(i) The DCM will prepare requisitions based on information from the rifle clubs or institutions. DA Form 1273 (Requisition for Articles Authorized for Issue to Civilian Rifle Clubs) will be used. Two completed copies of the requisition will be sent to the requester.
(ii) The rifle club or institution will complete the form and return one signed copy to the DCM, HQDA, Secretary Field Directorate Marksmanship (SFDM), (para 7, app B) and keep one copy for file.
(iii) On receipt of the signed copy of DA Form 1273, the DCM will take proper issue action. When more arms are required by the DCM, a DD Form 1348 will be prepared and sent to the Secretary of the Army for approval (AR 725-50).
(iv) The supply source responsible for the loan will ship the materiel directly to the rifle club or school.
(v) DD Forms 1348-1 received with the shipment or by mail, will be annotated and signed by the person authorized to receive and sign for property for the rifle club or school. The quantity and condition of the items received will be entered thereon. This entry will be based on a physical check and inspection of the materiel. Serial numbers of items received (if applicable and not noted) will also be entered. Two of the completed copies will be signed by the person authorized to sign for the club or institution. They will be mailed to the DCM, HQDA Secretary Field Directorate Marksmanship (SFDM). The third completed copy will be kept in the unit's file.
(vi) If a DD Form 1348-1 is not received with the shipment or is not received by mail, a receipt letter will be sent to the DCM. It will set forth the nomenclature, quantities, condition, and serial numbers (of serial-numbered items) of all property received. This letter will be sent as soon as possible after receipt of the property. The receipt letter will be used by the DCM as a loan voucher. One copy will be recorded in the voucher register and placed in the voucher file. The loan action will be posted to the DCM stock record account.
(5)
Property returns.
When property is returned by civilian rifle clubs or institutions, the DCM will prepare seven copies of the DD Form 1348-1. Five copies will be mailed to the rifle club or institution; one will be kept in suspense in the club's or institution's jacket file; and one will be sent to the US Army Management Systems Support Agency (USAMSSA), Wash., DC 20310, to update the “rifles intransit program.” The rifle club or institution will enter on the five copies the shipment date, how shipped, the quantity shipped, and other necessary data not entered by the DCM and distribute the five copies as follows:
(i) Two copies to the consignee (receiving depot, arsenal, or installation). One copy of the DD Form 1348-1 received by the consignee will be used to tally the shipment and to account for property received. The other copy will be signed by the accountable property officer (or representative) and will be sent to the DCM to terminate the open receipt in the loan voucher file.
(ii) One copy with the shipment.
(iii) One copy to the DCM, HQDA (SFDM), accompanied by the bill of lading (where available).
(iv) One copy retained by the rifle club or institution.
(6)
Lost, damaged, or destroyed property.
Loss, damage, or destruction of property in the possession of a rifle club or institution will be reported within 24 hours by telephone to the DCM (202-693-6460), the local police, and the FBI. All public and local laws must be complied with. Rifles and other equipment (except ammunition) that becomes unserviceable will be reported to the DCM by the club or institution. The DCM will give instructions for return of the equipment without expense to the government. Any equipment damage or loss that is the fault of the club or institution will be determined by a report of survey (AR 735-
11). The club or institution must then reimburse the DCM. The DCM may replace damaged equipment after reimbursement. Government property lost or destroyed without fault or neglect on the club's part will be replaced, if replacements are available. The club will pay only shipping and handling charges.
[AR 700-131, 45 FR 62038, Sept. 18, 1980; AR 700-131, 61 FR 45890, Aug. 30, 1996]
§ 623.6
Reimbursement for loan of Army materiel.
(a)
Reimbursement policies and procedures
—(1)
Policies.
(i) DA elements do not program for costs related to loan of Army materiel.
(ii) Loans to non-DOD Federal activities are made on the basis that there will be no extra cost to the Army. Costs that are in addition to normal Army operating expenses will be reimbursed by the borrower. This provision will be a part of the loan agreement.
(iii) In cases of aircraft piracy, civil disturbance, disaster relief, or protection of the President or visiting dignitaries, emergency support will not be withheld for lack of a formal reimbursement agreement. In these cases, the supporting Army element will absorb initial costs (within existing fund availability). Reimbursement will be coordinated later.
(iv) Loans made under the provisions of Title 10 U.S.C. 2667 will provide that the borrower must pay a fair monetary rental. The fair monetary rental will be determined on the basis of prevailing commercial rates or computed by sound commercial accounting practices including a return on capital investment and administrative cost as well as depreciation. Leases made under this code section will include a provision establishing the rental cost of the materiel and method of payment.
(v) The Army National Guard (ARNG) is responsible for reimbursement of costs, over and above normal DA operating expenses, related to the borrowed Army materiel.
(vi) Support to the United States Secret Service (USSS) will be on a reimbursable basis except for costs directly related to protection of the President or Vice President. Requests for reimbursement for all other support for USSS will be according to AR 37-27.
(vii) The cost of emergency support will be billed directly to the recipient.
(2)
Procedures.
(i) The Army accountable property officer handling the loan of DLA stock fund items will coordinate DLA billings and borrower reimbursement. The borrower can make payment directly to the Defense Stock Fund.
(ii) Installation financial accounting for “accounts receivable” will conform with Army Regulation 37-108.
(iii) The finance and accounting office (FAO) supporting the supplying accountable property officer will record all charges, including accounts receivable of Army Stock Fund offices (or branch offices), in separate ledger accounts for each borrower.
(iv) Charges and collections recorded in each loan account will be reported per Army regulations and directives prescribing the reporting of the fund status in any current fiscal year.
(v) Billing will be initiated on Standard Form 1080, and sent to the borrower within 30 days of turn-in of materiel and loan termination. For loans of arms and accouterments and issue of ammunition pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 4655, the Standard Form 1080 will be annotated to show that collections are to reimburse DA appropriations.
(vi) Special appropriations established to support disaster relief will be used promptly by Army commanders concerned to ensure that all direct expenses are charged to the special appropriation. Exclude those charges subject to reimbursement by the American National Red Cross (ANRC). ANRC reimburses for supplies, materiel, and services for which they are responsible in the disaster area.
(b)
Reimbursable costs.
Unless specifically stated, borrowing agencies, authorities, and activities will reimburse the Army for all costs related to loan of Army materiel to include but not limited to the following:
(1) Any overtime pay and pay of additional civilian personnel required to accompany, operate, maintain, or safeguard borrowed equipment.
(2) Travel and per diem expenses of Army personnel (military and civilian).
(3) Packing, crating, handling, and shipping from supply source to destination and return. This includes port loading and off loading.
(4) All transportation including return for repair or renovation.
(5) Hourly rate for the use of Army aircraft.
(6) Petroleum, oil, and lubricants (POL) (including aviation fuel).
(7) The cost of materiel lost, destroyed, or damaged beyond economical repair except for Army aircraft, motor vehicles, or motor craft used in connection with aircraft piracy.
(8) Utilities (gas, water, heat, and electricity). Charges will be based on meter readings or other fair method.
(9) Any modification or rehabilitation of Army real property which affects its future use by DA. In such cases the borrower will also bear the cost of restoring the facility to its original form.
(10) Repair/overhaul of returned materiel. Renovation and repair will conform with agreement between the Army and the borrower. (See paragraph (e)(1) of this section.)
(11) Repair parts used in maintenance or renovation.
(12) Price decline of borrowed stock fund materiel at which returned property can be sold.
(c)
Nonreimbursable costs.
The following costs are normal operating expenses of the Army for which no reimbursement is required:
(1) Regular pay and allowances of Army personnel (except travel) and per diem costs.
(2) Administrative overhead costs.
(3) Annual and sick leave, retirement, and other military or civilian benefits except as provided in certain cases; e.g., Army Industrial Fund regulations.
(4) Telephone, telegram, or other electrical means used to requisition items, replenish depot stocks, or coordinate the loan.
(5) Charges for the use of Army motor vehicles and watercraft except POL and per diem costs (paragraph (b) of this section).
(6) The use of real property (except as required for utilities, modification, etc.).
(d)
Funding records.
(1) Records of all costs (other than normal operating expenses), related to loans of Army materiel, will be kept at the accountable property officer level by the supporting finance and accounting office. This will be done within existing Army financial accounting systems.
(2) Separate subsidiary general ledger accounts and/or files of documents showing the total value of all issues and materiel returned for credit, and supporting documentation will be set up by the finance and accounting office. The accounts will be kept current for each loan action so reports may be made as prescribed; and so that accounts receivable can be processed for billing and collection action.
(e)
Determination of charges and settlement.
(1) Returned materiel will be promptly classified by a qualified inspector with action as follows:
(i) Materiel classified as unserviceable, uneconomically reparable will be billed at 100 percent of value.
(ii) Materiel classified as unserviceable, economically reparable will be billed for reduced utility (if appropriate) as well as for repair/overhaul costs.
(iii) The depreciation of borrowed materiel will be determined by technical inspectors according to Army Regulation 735-11. When qualified inspectors are not available, returned property will be received with “condition” shown as “subject to final classification by DA.” Accountable property officers will complete classification promptly so charges and billing can be made within 30 days of return of materiel.
(2) All returned property which needs repair will be examined by a technical inspector to find cost of repair. Then the accountable property officer will prepare a property transaction record with supporting documents. These records will be sent to the proper MACOM commander or CINC of UCOM for final review. They will include—
(i) A statement on the transaction record identifying the financial account to which the reimbursement money is to be deposited.
(ii) A statement on the transaction record (if appropriate) as follows: “The losses and/or damages shown on the
Property Transaction Record in the amount of $______ represent the total claim by the US Army for property loaned to ________________. Upon settlement and deposit to the proper account, lender releases the ________________ from further obligations.”
(iii) A description of the type and degree of repair (separate addendum).
(3) After the final review, an approved list of charges will be sent to the servicing finance office for collection. The property will be released for repair and returned to stock.
(4) The finance office will send a letter to the borrower requesting payment (payable to the Treasurer of the United States). Upon payment, collection documents will be prepared and fiscal accounts credited. The MACOM or UCOM Surgeon will ensure the stock fund is reimbursed for expendable medical supply losses reported.
(5) The finance office will advise the loaning accountable property officer that settlement has been made. Property transaction records will be closed.
(6) The approving authority will then return the bond to the borrower.
(7) The value of supplies and equipment returned to the Army will be credited to the account originally debited at the time of issue. FDAA Regional Directors may find that it is not in the public interest to return borrowed materiel that has not been consumed, lost, or damaged. They will negotiate with the CONUS Army concerned for proper reimbursement for the borrowed materiel not returned.
(f)
Delinquent and uncoolectible accounts.
(1) In cases of unsatisfactory settlement, bond proceeds will be used to satisfy the claim.
(2) If this does not settle the account, then 6 months after the final report and after all collection efforts have failed—
(i) Servicing finance offices will send delinquent “accounts receivable” reports to commanders of CONUS Armies and DARCOM readiness commands, and to CINCs of UCOMs, by forwarding—
(A) Duplicate copies of Standard Form 1080 billing documents showing complete accounting classification to which reimbursement is to be credited.
(B) Duplicate copies of all supporting documents.
(C) One copy of any correspondence showing the reason(s) for nonpayment of the account.
(ii) The CONUS Army Commanding General, CINC of UCOM, or Commanding Generals of DARCOM Materiel Readiness Commands, will also try to collect for these delinquent accounts. If all efforts fail, these accounts, (with any delinquent accounts applicable to billings initiated within their own headquarters) will be sent to the Director of Comproller Systems, HQDA (DACA-BUS). (Para 1, app B). The letter of transmittal will state that the accounts are transferred according to this regulation. A copy will be sent to the FAO handling the accounts. The FAO will then transfer the account to inactive status. A Standard Form 1017G (Journal Voucher) will be prepared showing a debit to account 3052 (Transfer of Accounts Receivable) and a credit to the proper accounts receivable.
(iii) Appropriations available to the accountable property officer or installation will be used for reimbursing; e.g., the Army Stock Fund or Army Industrial Fund accounts. Any later reimbursements received will be credited to the Army appropriation from which payment was made.
(3) Upon receipt of the accounts included in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the Comptroller, HQDA (DACA-BUS), will take further collection action under normal operating procedures. All later collection action is the responsibility of the Comptroller. Accounting records and reports will conform with normal procedures. When further collection effort by the Comptroller fails, these accounts will be dropped from receivable balances of the Army. They will be referred to the General Accounting Office (GAO).
§ 623.7
Reports.
(a)
General.
Reports of Army materiel loaned to non-DOD activities must be forwarded as described below.
(b)
Aircraft piracy.
(1) Commands and agencies providing aircraft piracy support will initially report through command channels by telephone to the HQDA, (DAMO-ODS). (Para 4, app B.)
Confirmation will be made by electrically transmitted message to HQDA, ATTN: DAMO-ODS. These reports are exempt from reports control under Army Regulation 335-15. Initial reports will include all available details. Following is a guide for content of reports.
(i) Supporting unit.
(ii) Home station of supporting unit.
(iii) Support provided and duration of requirement.
(iv) Changes, if any, in support requested or duration of requirement as made by the Federal civil official in charge.
(v) Additional remarks.
(2) A final report noting termination of support will be made.
(c)
Civilian rifle clubs and schools.
(1) Each affiliated club and institution (schools) must file an annual report (DA Form 1277, Annual Statistical Report of Civilian Rifle Club) on the anniversary date of the loan with the DCM.
(2) A roster of club members will list each member required to fire annually. It will include the full name, address, and age; the DCM course; score; and the date the member fired for record.
(3) A description of the club's procedures and facilities for safekeeping arms and ammunition will be appended to the roster of club members.
(d)
Civil disturbances.
(1) Requests to meet civil disturbances are of two types:
(i) Type I—Requests to meet an urgent need during an actual disorder.
(ii) Type II—Requests in anticipation of an imminent civil disorder.
(2) Approving authorities, other than the Secretary of the Army, will prepare reports (RCS DD-A(AR)1112) on all requests for loan of Army materiel to support civil disturbances. The reports will be sent within 2 working days after receipt of the request. They will be prepared in the format shown in Army Regulation 500-60. They will also serve as “the request” when no other written request is available.
(3) The reports will be sent to the (HQDA (DAMO-ODS)). When reports are received from unified or specified commands, ODCSOPS will send an information copy to the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) National Military Command Center (NMCC).
(4) The Secretary of the Army will send information copies of civil disorder reports to the DOD General Counsel and the US Deputy Attorney General.
(5) Reports of civil disturbance operation costs (RCS DD-A(AR)1112) also will be prepared as shown in Army Regulation 500-60.
(e)
Disaster assistance.
When Army materiel is loaned in support of disaster assistance, CONUS Army Commanding Generals and UCOM CINCs will send reports as follows:
(1)
Initial reports.
Initial reports will be made by telephone to the Commanding General, FORSCOM (AUTOVON 588-3912), who will, in turn, telephone the report to the Military Support Division, ODCSOPS, AUTOVON 225-2003 or 7045). This will be followed within 12 hours by a Tempest Rapid Materiel Report in message form and sent electrically. The message report will be prepared according to Army Regulation 500-60.
(2)
Daily message reports.
Tempest Rapid Daily Materiel Reports of Army materiel loaned to support disaster relief will also be sent by electrically transmitted message. The reports will cover the 24-hour period from 0601Z to 0600Z. The reports must arrive at the HQDA (DAMO-ODS), no later than 1100Z the same day. Daily reports will be sent according to the format in Army Regulation 500-60 except that part III will not be included. Also, “no change reports” may be made by telephone. On the day of the last daily message report include the words FINAL DAILY REPORT in the subject line.
(3)
Final reports.
In addition to the final Tempest Rapid Daily Materiel Report, a final report on military assistance provided will be sent within 45 working days of termination of disaster assistance. The CONUS Army Commanding General will send the report by 1st Class Mail through the Commanding General, FORSCOM, to the HQDA (DAMO-ODS). The final report will include—
(i) An historic account of the disaster.
(ii) Cumulative totals of support given.
(iii) A statement of accomplishments.
(iv) Actual or estimated expenses excluding costs incurred by the Corps of Engineers under Pub. L. 84-99. Costs will be reported by Service by appropriation, using three columns to identify normal costs, incremental costs, and total costs.
(v) The status of reimbursements requested from borrowing Federal agencies, and civilian authorities and activities. If reimbursement has not been completed by the date of the final report, a separate cost report will be sent upon final reimbursement payment.
(vi) Lessons learned.
(4)
Information copies.
Information copies of all reports will be sent to the proper HUD Regional Directors for FDAA and DCPA Regional Offices.
(5)
Additional information.
Additional information may be needed by Federal officials. Normally, such requests will be telephoned by ODC SOPS Military Support Division to the Commanding General, FORSCOM.
(6)
Pollution spills.
The Commanding General, FORSCOM, will report committal of Army resources to the HQDA (DAMO-ODS), by the fastest means. Daily and final Tempest Rapid Materiel Reports will be sent with “not applicable” shown in paragraphs 8, 9, and 10 of the report.
(f)
Drugs and Narcotics Interdiction Program.
(1) Army staff agencies will submit monthly status reports of actions that support this program. The reports will be as of the last day of June and December, respectively. Reports will be sent to HQDA (DAMO-ODS), 4 working days after the end of the designated months. Reports will summarize all support during the period to include pending or terminated support plus estimated cost of items.
(2) Based on information received in these reports, ODCSOPS will prepare a report of the drug and narcotics interdiction assistance given by the Army. This report will be sent through the Army Chief of Staff to the Secretary of the Army.
(g)
United States Secret Service (USSS).
Army commands and agencies providing materiel support (routine or urgent) to the USSS will report any significant problems or deviation from the approved request at once. Reports will be telephoned through command channels.
(h)
Other reports.
Active Army accountable property officers will make semiannual reports on open loans. The reports will be prepared as of the last day of July and December. They will be sent by the 15th day of the following month. These reports will include the items on loan, quantity, dollar value, and duration of the loans. The reports will be sent to the approving authority.
Pt. 623, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 623—Explanation of Terms
As used in this regulation, the following explanation of terms apply:
Accouterments.
Equipment that is associated with small arms characterized as personal and individual that is available from Army stocks.
Approving authority.
The person (or designee) authorized to approve specific types of loans of Army materiel. (See table 2-1 and app B.)
Arms.
Weapons for use in war.
Civil authorities.
Those elected and appointed public officials and employees who govern the 50 States, District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, US possessions and territories, and governmental subdivisions thereof.
Civil defense.
All those activities and measures designed or undertaken to:
a.
Minimize the effects upon the civilian population caused, or which would be caused, by an enemy attack upon the United States.
b.
Deal with immediate emergency conditions which would be created by any such attack.
c.
Effect emergency repairs to, or the emergency restoration of, vital utilities and facilities destroyed or damaged by any such attack (JCS Pub 1).
Community relations program.
A program of action, to earn public understanding and acceptance, conducted at all levels of military command wherever stationed. The program includes participation in public events, humane acts, and cooperation with public officials and civil leaders (AR 360-61).
Defense Civil Preparedness Agency (DCPA).
A defense department agency responsible for plans and preparations for civil defense and assistance to local governments in disaster relief planning.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
The Federal department responsible for directing and coordinating Federal assistance for major disasters on behalf of the President.
Domestic action program.
A program of assistance to local, State, and Federal agencies for the continued improvement and development of society (AR 28-19 and para 4-10, AR 360-61).
Emergency.
Any catastrophe in any of the United States which in the determination of the President requires Federal supplementary emergency assistance.
Emergency medical treatment.
The immediate application of medical procedures to wounded, injured, or sick, by trained professional medical personnel.
Executive agent.
That individual or his designee authorized to act as the US Government's agent in making certain loans of government materiel. The President of the United States has delegated to the Secretary of the Army (or to his designee, the Under Secretary of the Army) authority, as Executive Agent, to approve certain loans of DOD materiel to non-DOD activities. (See table 2-1.) Other “approving authorities” act as “Executive Agents” for the US Government, but do not have that title.
Federal agency.
Any department, independent establishment, government corporation, or other agency of the executive branch of the Federal Government, except the ANRC.
Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO).
The person appointed by the President to operate under the HUD Regional Director for Federal Disaster Assistance Administration to coordinate Federal assistance in Presidentially declared emergency or major disaster.
Federal Disaster Assistance Administration (FDAA).
The agency within HUD delegated the disaster relief responsibilities previously assigned to the Office of Emergency Preparedness.
Federal function.
Any function, operation, or action carried out under the laws of the United States by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or by an officer or employee thereof.
Federal property.
That property which is owned, leased, possessed, or occupied by the Federal Government.
Imminent serious condition.
Any disaster or civil disturbance which is of such severity that immediate assistance is required to save human life, prevent immediate human suffering, or reduce destruction or damage to property.
Local government.
Any county, parish, city, village, town, district, Indian tribe or authorized tribal organization, Alaska native village or organization, or other political subdivision of any State.
Major disaster.
Any hurricane, tornado, storm, flood, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, earth-quake, drought, fire, or other catastrophe which, in the determination of the President, is or threatens to be off sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant disaster assistance by the Federal Government. This assistance supplements the efforts and available resources of States, local governments, and relief organization in alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering caused thereby.
Objective area.
A specific geographical location where a civil disturbance or disaster is occurring or is anticipated.
Routine requests.
Requests resulting from situations which are reasonably predictable or do not require immediate action to prevent or reduce loss of life, property, or essential services. Reduced efficiency of the requester's operation is not in itself grounds for classifying a request higher than routine.
Small arms.
Hand and shoulder weapons for use in war.
Surety bond.
A bond, including dollar deposit, guaranteeing performance of a contract or obligations.
Terrorist incident.
A form of civil disturbance which is a distinct criminal act committed or threatened to be committed by a group or single individual in order to advance a political or other objective, thus endangering safety of individuals or property. This definition does not include aircraft piracy emergencies.
Threatened major disaster.
Any hurricane, tornado, storm, flood, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, earthquake, drought, fire, or other catastrophe which, in the determination of the Administrator, FDAA, threatens to be of severity and magnitude sufficient to warrant disaster assistance by the Federal Government. This assistance will be used to avert or lessen the effects of such disaster before its actual occurrence.
Urgent requests.
Those resulting from unforeseeable circumstances, civil disturbances, civil defense needs, aircraft piracy, secret service requirements, and disasters when immediate action is necessary to prevent loss of life, physical injury, destruction of property, or disruption of essential functions.
Youth groups.
Youth groups are groups such as the Boy Scouts of America; Girl Scouts of the United States of America; Civil Air Patrol; Camp Fire Girls, Incorporated; The Boy's Club of America; Young Men's Christian Association; Young Women's Christian Association; Four H Clubs; and similar groups.
Pt. 623, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 623—Approving Authority Addresses/Telephone Numbers *
B-1.
HQDA (DACA-BUS), WASH DC 20310, Telephone: AUTOVON 225-6336, WATS 202-695-6336;
* Telephone numbers are provided for principal loan approving authorities and agencies responsible for specific loans IAW table 2-1.
B-2. HQDA (DALO-SMD), WASH DC 20310, Telephone: AUTOVON 227-5960, WATS 202-697-5960;
B-3. HQDA (DALO-SMW), WASH DC 20310, Telephone: AUTOVON 227-3159, WATS 202-697-3159;
B-4. HQDA (DAMO-ODS), WASH DC 20310, Telephone: AUTOVON 225-2003, WATS 202-695-2003;
B-5. HQDA (NGB-ZA), WASH DC 20310, Telephone: AUTOVON 227-2430, WATS 202-697-2430;
B-6. HQDA (DASG-HCL), WASH DC 20310, Telephone: AUTOVON 227-8286, WATS 202-697-8286;
B-7. Director, Civilian Marksmanship (SFNB) Room 1E-OM3, West Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Telephone: AUTOVON 223-6460, WATS 202-693-6460;
B-8. Commander in Chief, US Army, Europe and Seventh Army, APO New York 09403;
B-9. Commander, First US Army, Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755, Telephone: AUTOVON 923-7500, WATS 301-677-7500;
B-10. Commander, Fifth US Army, Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234, Telephone: AUTOVON 471-4707, WATS 512-221-4707;
B-11. Commander, Sixth US Army, Presidio of San Francisco, CA 94129, Telephone: AUTOVON 486-4110, WATS 415-561-4110;
B-12. Commander, US Army Armament Materiel Readiness Command, ATTN: DRSAR-MMS, Rock Island, IL 61229;
B-13. Commander, US Army Armament Research and Development Command, Dover, NJ 07801;
B-14. Commander, US Army Aviation Research and Development Command, PO Box 209, St. Louis, MO 63177;
B-15. Commander, US Army Communications and Electronics Materiel Readiness Command, Fort Monmouth, NJ 07703;
B-16. Commander, US Army Communications Research and Development Command, Fort Monmouth, NJ 07703;
B-17. Commander, US Army Communications Security, Logistics Agency, ATTN: SELCL-NICP-IM, Fort Huachuca, AZ 86513;
B-18. Commander, US Army Forces Command, Fort McPherson, GA 30330, Telephone: AUTOVON 588-2694, WATS 404-752-2694;
B-19. Commander, US Army Health Services Command, Fort Sam Houston, TX 78234;
B-20. HQDA (DAMH-HS), WASH DC 20314;
B-21. Commander, US Army Military District of Washington, Fort Leslie J. McNair, Washington, DC 20319;
B-22. Commander, US Army Missile Materiel Readiness Command, Redstone Arsenal, AL 35809;
B-23. Commander, US Army Missile Research and Development Command, Redstone Arsenal, AL 35809;
B-24. Commander, US Army Security Assistance Center, ATTN: DRSAC, 5001 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22333, Telephone: AUTOVON 284-9638, WATS 202-274-9638;
B-25. Commander, US Army Tank-Automotive Materiel Readiness Command, Warren, MI 48090;
B-26. Commander, US Army Tank-Automotive Research and Development Command, Warren, MI 48090;
B-27. Commander, US Army Test and Evaluation Command, Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 21005;
B-28. Commander, US Army Training and Doctrine Command, Fort Monroe, VA 23651, Telephone: AUTOVON 680-3112, WATS 804-727-3112;
B-29. Commander, US Army Troop Support and Aviation, Materiel Readiness Command, 4300 Goodfellow Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63120.
Pt. 623, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 623—Agreement for Loan of US Army Materiel (DA Form 4881-R)
EC24OC91.013
EC24OC91.014
EC24OC91.015
EC24OC91.016
EC24OC91.017
EC24OC91.018
Pt. 623, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 623—Certificate for Signature by an Alternate (DA Form 4881-1-R)
EC24OC91.019
EC24OC91.020
Pt. 623, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 623—Surety Bond (DA Form 4881-3-R)
EC24OC91.021
EC24OC91.022
EC24OC91.023
Pt. 623, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 623—Power of Attorney (DA Form 4881-4-R)
EC24OC91.024
EC24OC91.025
Pt. 623, App. G

# Appendix G to Part 623—Continental US Army Boundaries
EC24OC91.026
Pt. 623, App. H

# Appendix H to Part 623—References
AR 1-4 Deployment of DA Resources in Support of the US Secret Service.
AR 15-17 Army Representation on Office of Preparedness; General Service Administration (OP/GSA) Regional Field Boards in Crisis Management Operations.
AR 28-19 Department of the Army Domestic Action Program.
AR 34-1 United States Army Participation in International Military Rationalization/Standardization/Interoperability (RSI) Programs.
AR 37-27 Accounting Policy and Procedures for Intragovernment, Intradefense; and Intra-Army Transactions.
AR 37-44 Accounting Procedures for Guaranteed Loans.
AR 37-48 Accounting and Reporting for Materiel, Services, and Facilities Furnished Allied Governments and International Organizations Under Emergency or Combat Conditions.
AR 37-60 Pricing for Materiel and Services.
AR 37-111 Working Capital Funds—Army Stock Fund; Uniform Policies, Principles, and Procedures Governing Army Stock Fund Operations.
AR 58-1 Management acquisition and use of administration use motor vehicles.
AR 130-44 Logistical Policies for Support.
AR 190-11 Physical Security of Weapons, Ammunition, and Explosives.
AR 190-49 Physical Security of Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives In-Transit.
AR 210-55 Funding Support for Morale, Welfare and Recreational Programs, and Facilities.
AR 230-1 The Nonappropriated Fund System.
AR 350-7 Training and Evaluation of Forces for Civil Disturbances.
AR 360-61 Army Information—Community Relations.
AR 500-1 Aircraft Piracy Emergencies.
AR 500-2 Search and Rescue (SAR) Operations.
AR 500-50 Civil Disturbances.
AR 500-60 Disaster Relief.
AR 500-70 Military Support of Civil Defense.
AR 525-90 Wartime Search and Rescue (SAR) Procedures.
AR 700-32 Logistic Support of US Nongovernmental, Nonmilitary Agencies, and Individuals in Oversea Military Commands.
AR 700-49 Loan of DSA Stock Fund Materiel.
AR 700-83 Army Support of United Seamen's Service.
AR 710-1 Centralized Inventory Management of the Army Supply System.
AR 710-2 Materiel Management for Using Units, Support Units, and Installations.
AR 725-1 Requisition and Issue of Supplies and Equipment—Special Authorization and Procedures for Issues, Sales, and Loans.
AR 725-50 Requisitioning, Receipt, and Issue System.
AR 735-5 Property Accountability—General Principles, Policies, and Basic Procedures.
AR 735-11 Accounting for Lost, Damaged, and Destroyed Property.
AR 795-25 Policies, Responsibilities, and Principles for Supply Support Arrangements.
AR 795-204 Policies and Procedures for Furnishing Defense Articles and Services on a Sale or Loan Basis.
AR 870-15 Historical Activities, Army Art Collection.
AR 870-20 Historical Activities, Historical Properties and Museums.
AR 920-15 National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Office of Director of Civilian Marksmanship.
AR 920-20 Civilian Marksmanship—Promotion of Practice with Rifled Arms.
AR 920-25 Rifles M14M and M14N for Civilian Marksmanship Use.
AR 930-5 Service Organizations—American National Red Cross Service Program and Army Utilization.
FM 20-150 Combatives.
MOU, 25 Apr 75, between DOD and Department of Agriculture and the Interior.
MOU, 24 Jun 75, between DOD and the American National Red Cross for Military Support.
PARTS 626-629 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2023)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Grants and Agreements
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
[Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Department of Education (Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99).
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Enforcement (Child Support Enforcement Program), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2023)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Enforcement, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, III, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Enforcement, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, III, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
32 CFR (7-1-23 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2018 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2018
32 CFR
83 FR
Page
Chapter V
508 Removed
43525
518 Removed
17295
538 Removed
26841
571 Removed
47284
2019
32 CFR
84 FR
Page
Chapter V
Chapter V
504 Removed
59723
505 Removed
46682
542 Removed
9962
552.16 (Subpart A) Removed
16402
552.140—552.145 (Subpart K) Removed
16402
552.180—552.185 (Subpart N) Removed
16402
553 Heading and authority citation revised
45408
553.1—553.35 Designated as Subpart A; heading added
45408
553.10 (c) amended
45408
553.12 (b)(4)(iv) and (v) amended; (b)(5) added
45408
553.28 (a) amended
45408
553.36—553.49 (Subpart B) Added
45408
562 Removed
9962
584 Removed
60916
2020
32 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter V
589 Removed
64966
625 Policy statement
51645
2021
32 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter V
507 Revised
54616
575 Removed
15408
2022
(No regulations published)
2023
(Regulations published from January 1, 2023, through July 1, 2023)
32 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter V
555 Removed
24480
○
