Each applicant proposing a noise or access restriction on Stage 3 operations shall prepare and make available for public comment an analysis that supports, by substantial evidence, that the six statutory conditions for approval have been met for each restriction and any alternatives submitted. The statutory conditions are set forth in 49 U.S.C. App. 2153(d)(2) and paragraph (e) of this section. Any proposed restriction (including alternatives) on Stage 3 aircraft operations that also affects the operation of Stage 2 aircraft must include analysis of the proposals in a manner that permits the proposal to be understood in its entirety. (Nothing in this section is intended to add a requirement for the issuance of restrictions on Stage 2 aircraft to those of subpart C of this part.) The applicant shall provide:
(a) The complete text of the proposed restriction and any submitted alternatives, including the proposed wording in a city ordinance, airport rule, lease, or other document, and any sanctions for noncompliance;
(b) Maps denoting the airport geographic boundary, and the geographic boundaries and names of each jurisdiction that controls land use within the airport noise study area;
(c) An adequate environmental assessment of the proposed restriction or
adequate information supporting a categorical exclusion in accordance with FAA orders and procedures regarding compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321);
(d) A summary of the evidence in the submission supporting the six statutory conditions for approval; and
(e) An analysis of the restriction, demonstrating by substantial evidence that the statutory conditions are met. The analysis must:
(1) Be sufficiently detailed to allow the FAA to evaluate the merits of the proposed restriction; and
(2) Contain the following essential elements needed to provide substantial evidence supporting each condition for approval:
(i)
Condition 1: The restriction is reasonable, nonarbitrary, and nondiscriminatory.
(A) Essential information needed to demonstrate this condition includes the following:
(
1
) Evidence that a current or projected noise or access problem exists, and that the proposed action(s) could relieve the problem, including:
(
i
) A detailed description of the problem precipitating the proposed restriction with relevant background information on factors contributing to the proposal and any court-ordered action or estimated liability concerns; a description of any noise agreements or noise or access restrictions currently in effect at the airport; and measures taken to achieve land-use compatibility, such as controls or restrictions on land use in the vicinity of the airport and measures carried out in response to 14 CFR part 150; and actions taken to comply with grant assurances requiring that:
(
A
) Airport development projects be reasonably consistent with plans of public agencies that are authorized to plan for the development of the area around the airport; and
(
B
) The sponsor give fair consideration to the interests of communities in or near where the project may be located; take appropriate action, including the adoption of zoning laws, to the extent reasonable, to restrict the use of land near the airport to activities and purposes compatible with normal airport operations; and not cause or permit any change in land use, within its jurisdiction, that will reduce the compatibility (with respect to the airport) of any noise compatibility program measures upon which federal funds have been expended.
(
ii
) An analysis of the estimated noise impact of aircraft operations with and without the proposed restriction for the year the restriction is expected to be implemented, for a forecast timeframe after implementation, and for any other years critical to understanding the noise impact of the proposed restriction. The analysis of noise impact with and without the proposed restriction including:
(
A
) Maps of the airport noise study area overlaid with noise contours as specified in §§ 161.9 and 161.11 of this part;
(
B
) The number of people and the noncompatible land uses within the airport noise study area with and without the proposed restriction for each year the noise restriction is analyzed;
(
C
) Technical data supporting the noise impact analysis, including the classes of aircraft, fleet mix, runway use percentage, and day/night breakout of operations; and
(
D
) Data on current and projected airport activity that would exist in the absence of the proposed restriction.
(
2
) Evidence that other available remedies are infeasible or would be less cost-effective, including descriptions of any alternative aircraft restrictions that have been considered and rejected, and the reasons for the rejection; and of any land use or other nonaircraft controls or restrictions that have been considered and rejected, including those proposed under 14 CFR part 150 and not implemented, and the reasons for the rejection or failure to implement.
(
3
) Evidence that the noise or access standards are the same for all aviation user classes or that the differences are justified, such as:
(
i
) A description of the relationship of the effect of the proposed restriction on airport users (by aviation user class); and
(
ii
) The noise attributable to these users in the absence of the proposed restriction.
(B) At the applicant's discretion, information may also be submitted as follows:
(
1
) Evidence not submitted under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section (Condition 2) that there is a reasonable chance that expected benefits will equal or exceed expected cost; for example, comparative economic analyses of the costs and benefits of the proposed restriction and aircraft and nonaircraft alternative measures. For detailed elements of analysis, see paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(
2
) Evidence not submitted under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section that the level of any noise-based fees that may be imposed reflects the cost of mitigating noise impacts produced by the aircraft, or that the fees are reasonably related to the intended level of noise impact mitigation.
(ii)
Condition 2: The restriction does not create an undue burden on interstate or foreign commerce.
(A) Essential information needed to demonstrate this statutory condition includes:
(
1
) Evidence, based on a cost-benefit analysis, that the estimated potential benefits of the restriction have a reasonable chance to exceed the estimated potential cost of the adverse effects on interstate and foreign commerce. In preparing the economic analysis required by this section, the applicant shall use currently accepted economic methodology, specify the methods used and assumptions underlying the analysis, and consider:
(
i
) The effect of the proposed restriction on operations of aircraft by aviation user class (and for air carriers, the number of operations of aircraft by carrier), and on the volume of passengers and cargo for the year the restriction is expected to be implemented and for the forecast timeframe.
(
ii
) The estimated costs of the proposed restriction and alternative nonaircraft restrictions including the following, as appropriate:
(
A
) Any additional cost of continuing aircraft operations under the restriction, including reasonably available information concerning any net capital costs of acquiring or retrofitting aircraft (net of salvage value and operating efficiencies) by aviation user class; and any incremental recurring costs;
(
B
) Costs associated with altered or discontinued aircraft operations, such as reasonably available information concerning loss to carriers of operating profits; decreases in passenger and shipper consumer surplus by aviation user class; loss in profits associated with other airport services or other entities: and/or any significant economic effect on parties other than aviation users.
(
C
) Costs associated with implementing nonaircraft restrictions or nonaircraft components of restrictions, such as reasonably available information concerning estimates of capital costs for real property, including redevelopment, soundproofing, noise easements, and purchase of property interests; and estimates of associated incremental recurring costs; or an explanation of the legal or other impediments to implementing such restrictions.
(
D
) Estimated benefits of the proposed restriction and alternative restrictions that consider, as appropriate, anticipated increase in real estate values and future construction cost (such as sound insulation) savings; anticipated increase in airport revenues; quantification of the noise benefits, such as number of people removed from noise contours and improved work force and/or educational productivity, if any; valuation of positive safety effects, if any; and/or other qualitative benefits, including improvements in quality of life.
(B) At the applicant's discretion, information may also be submitted as follows:
(
1
) Evidence that the affected carriers have a reasonable chance to continue service at the airport or at other points in the national airport system.
(
2
) Evidence that other air carriers are able to provide adequate service to the airport and other points in the system without diminishing competition.
(
3
) Evidence that comparable services or facilities are available at another airport controlled by the airport operator in the market area, including services available at other airports.
(
4
) Evidence that alternative transportation service can be attained through other means of transportation.
(
5
) Information on the absence of adverse evidence or adverse comments with respect to undue burden in the notice process required in § 161.303, or alternatively in § 161.321, of this part as evidence that there is no undue burden.
(iii)
Condition 3: The proposed restriction maintains safe and efficient use of the navigable airspace.
Essential information needed to demonstrate this statutory condition includes evidence that the proposed restriction maintains safe and efficient use of the navigable airspace based upon:
(A) Identification of airspace and obstacles to navigation in the vicinity of the airport; and
(B) An analysis of the effects of the proposed restriction with respect to use of airspace in the vicinity of the airport, substantiating that the restriction maintains or enhances safe and efficient use of the navigable airspace. The analysis shall include a description of the methods and data used.
(iv)
Condition 4: The proposed restriction does not conflict with any existing Federal statute or regulation.
Essential information needed to demonstrate this condition includes evidence demonstrating that no conflict is presented between the proposed restriction and any existing Federal statute or regulation, including those governing:
(A) Exclusive rights;
(B) Control of aircraft operations; and
(C) Existing Federal grant agreements.
(v)
Condition 5: The applicant has provided adequate opportunity for public comment on the proposed restriction.
Essential information needed to demonstrate this condition includes evidence that there has been adequate opportunity for public comment on the restriction as specified in § 161.303 or § 161.321 of this part.
(vi)
Condition 6: The proposed restriction does not create an undue burden on the national aviation system.
Essential information needed to demonstrate this condition includes evidence that the proposed restriction does not create an undue burden on the national aviation system such as:
(A) An analysis demonstrating that the proposed restriction does not have a substantial adverse effect on existing or planned airport system capacity, on observed or forecast airport system congestion and aircraft delay, and on airspace system capacity or workload;
(B) An analysis demonstrating that nonaircraft alternative measures to achieve the same goals as the proposed subject restrictions are inappropriate;
(C) The absence of comments with respect to imposition of an undue burden on the national aviation system in response to the notice required in § 161.303 or § 161.321.
§ 161.307
Comment by interested parties.
(a) Each applicant proposing a restriction shall establish a public docket or similar method for receiving and considering comments, and shall make comments available for inspection by interested parties upon request. Comments must be retained as long as the restriction is in effect.
(b) Each applicant shall submit to the FAA a summary of any comments received. Upon request by the FAA, the applicant shall submit copies of the comments.
§ 161.309
Requirements for proposal changes.
(a) Each applicant shall promptly advise interested parties of any changes to a proposed restriction or alternative restriction that are not encompassed in the proposals submitted, including changes that affect noncompatible land uses or that take place before the effective date of the restriction, and make available these changes to the proposed restriction and its analysis. For the purpose of this paragraph, interested parties include those who received direct notice under § 161.303(b) of this part, or those who were required to be consulted in accordance with the procedures in § 161.321 of this part, and those who commented on the proposed restriction.
(b) If there are substantial changes to a proposed restriction or the analysis made available prior to the effective date of the restriction, the applicant proposing the restriction shall initiate
new notice in accordance with the procedures in § 161.303 or, alternatively, the procedures in § 161.321. These requirements apply to substantial changes that are not encompassed in submitted alternative restriction proposals and their analyses. A substantial change to a restriction includes, but is not limited to, any proposal that would increase the burden on any aviation user class.
(c) In addition to the information in § 161.303(c), a new notice must indicate that the applicant is revising a previous notice, provide the reason for making the revision, and provide a new effective date (if any) for the restriction.
(d) If substantial changes requiring a new notice are made during the FAA's 180-day review of the proposed restriction, the applicant submitting the proposed restriction shall notify the FAA in writing that it is withdrawing its proposal from the review process until it has completed additional analysis, public review, and documentation of the public review. Resubmission to the FAA will restart the 180-day review.
§ 161.311
Application procedure for approval of proposed restriction.
Each applicant proposing a Stage 3 restriction shall submit to the FAA the following information for each restriction and alternative restriction submitted, with a request that the FAA review and approve the proposed Stage 3 noise or access restriction:
(a) A summary of evidence of the fulfillment of conditions for approval, as specified in § 161.305;
(b) An analysis as specified in § 161.305, as appropriate to the proposed restriction;
(c) A statement that the entity submitting the proposal is the party empowered to implement the restriction, or is submitting the proposal on behalf of such party; and
(d) A statement as to whether the airport requests, in the event of disapproval of the proposed restriction or any alternatives, that the FAA approve any portion of the restriction or any alternative that meets the statutory requirements for approval. An applicant requesting partial approval of any proposal should indicate its priorities as to portions of the proposal to be approved.
§ 161.313
Review of application.
(a)
Determination of completeness.
The FAA, within 30 days of receipt of an application, will determine whether the application is complete in accordance with § 161.311. Determinations of completeness will be made on all proposed restrictions and alternatives. This completeness determination is not an approval or disapproval of the proposed restriction.
(b)
Process for complete application.
When the FAA determines that a complete application has been submitted, the following procedures apply:
(1) The FAA notifies the applicant that it intends to act on the proposed restriction and publishes notice of the proposed restriction in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 161.315. The 180-day period for approving or disapproving the proposed restriction will start on the date of original FAA receipt of the application.
(2) Following review of the application, public comments, and any other information obtained under § 161.317(b), the FAA will issue a decision approving or disapproving the proposed restriction. This decision is a final decision of the Administrator for purpose of judicial review.
(c)
Process for incomplete application.
If the FAA determines that an application is not complete with respect to any submitted restriction or alternative restriction, the following procedures apply:
(1) The FAA shall notify the applicant in writing, returning the application and setting forth the type of information and analysis needed to complete the application in accordance with § 161.311.
(2) Within 30 days after the receipt of this notice, the applicant shall advise the FAA in writing whether or not it intends to resubmit and supplement its application.
(3) If the applicant does not respond in 30 days, or advises the FAA that it does not intend to resubmit and/or supplement the application, the application will be denied. This closes the
matter without prejudice to later application and does not constitute disapproval of the proposed restriction.
(4) If the applicant chooses to resubmit and supplement the application, the following procedures apply:
(i) Upon receipt of the resubmitted application, the FAA determines whether the application, as supplemented, is complete as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) If the application is complete, the procedures set forth in § 161.315 shall be followed. The 180-day review period starts on the date of receipt of the last supplement to the application.
(iii) If the application is still not complete with respect to the proposed restriction or at least one submitted alternative, the FAA so advises the applicant as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and provides the applicant with an additional opportunity to supplement the application as set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(iv) If the environmental documentation (either an environmental assessment or information supporting a categorical exclusion) is incomplete, the FAA will so notify the applicant in writing, returning the application and setting forth the types of information and analysis needed to complete the documentation. The FAA will continue to return an application until adequate environmental documentation is provided. When the application is determined to be complete, including the environmental documentation, the 180-day period for approval or disapproval will begin upon receipt of the last supplement to the application.
(v) Following review of the application and its supplements, public comments, and any other information obtained under § 161.317(b), the FAA will issue a decision approving or disapproving the application. This decision is a final decision of the Administrator for the purpose of judicial review.
(5) The FAA will deny the application and return it to the applicant if:
(i) None of the proposals submitted are found to be complete;
(ii) The application has been returned twice to the applicant for reasons other than completion of the environmental documentation; and
(iii) The applicant declines to complete the application. This closes the matter without prejudice to later application, and does not constitute disapproval of the proposed restriction.
§ 161.315
Receipt of complete application.
(a) When a complete application has been received, the FAA will notify the applicant by letter that the FAA intends to act on the application.
(b) The FAA will publish notice of the proposed restriction in the
Federal Register,
inviting interested parties to file comments on the application within 30 days after publication of the
Federal Register
notice.
§ 161.317
Approval or disapproval of proposed restriction.
(a) Upon determination that an application is complete with respect to at least one of the proposals submitted by the applicant, the FAA will act upon the complete proposals in the application. The FAA will not act on any proposal for which the applicant has declined to submit additional necessary information.
(b) The FAA will review the applicant's proposals in the preference order specified by the applicant. The FAA may request additional information from aircraft operators, or any other party, and may convene an informal meeting to gather facts relevant to its determination.
(c) The FAA will evaluate the proposal and issue an order approving or disapproving the proposed restriction and any submitted alternatives, in whole or in part, in the order of preference indicated by the applicant. Once the FAA approves a proposed restriction, the FAA will not consider any proposals of lower applicant-stated preference. Approval or disapproval will be given by the FAA within 180 days after receipt of the application or last supplement thereto under § 161.313. The FAA will publish its decision in the
Federal Register
and notify the applicant in writing.
(d) The applicant's failure to provide substantial evidence supporting the statutory conditions for approval of a particular proposal is grounds for disapproval of that proposed restriction.
(e) The FAA will approve or disapprove only the Stage 3 aspects of a restriction if the restriction applies to both Stage 2 and Stage 3 aircraft operations.
(f) An order approving a restriction may be subject to requirements that the applicant:
(1) Comply with factual representations and commitments in support of the restriction; and
(2) Ensure that any environmental mitigation actions or commitments by any party that are set forth in the environmental documentation provided in support of the restriction are implemented.
§ 161.319
Withdrawal or revision of restriction.
(a) The applicant may withdraw or revise a proposed restriction at any time prior to FAA approval or disapproval, and must do so if substantial changes are made as described in § 161.309. The applicant shall notify the FAA in writing of a decision to withdraw the proposed restriction for any reason. The FAA will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that it has terminated its review without prejudice to resubmission. A resubmission will be considered a new application.
(b) A subsequent amendment to a Stage 3 restriction that was in effect after October 1, 1990, or an amendment to a Stage 3 restriction previously approved by the FAA, is subject to the procedures in this subpart if the amendment will further reduce or limit aircraft operations or affect aircraft safety. The applicant may, at its option, revise or amend a restriction previously disapproved by the FAA and resubmit it for approval. Amendments are subject to the same requirements and procedures as initial submissions.
§ 161.321
Optional use of 14 CFR part 150 procedures.
(a) An airport operator may use the procedures in part 150 of this chapter, instead of the procedures described in §§ 161.303(b) and 161.309(b) of this part, as a means of providing an adequate public notice and opportunity to comment on proposed Stage 3 restrictions, including submitted alternatives.
(b) If the airport operator elects to use 14 CFR part 150 procedures to comply with this subpart, the operator shall:
(1) Ensure that all parties identified for direct notice under § 161.303(b) are notified that the airport's 14 CFR part 150 program submission will include a proposed Stage 3 restriction under part 161, and that these parties are offered the opportunity to participate as consulted parties during the development of the 14 CFR part 150 program;
(2) Include the information required in § 161.303(c) (2) through (5) and § 161.305 in the analysis of the proposed restriction in the 14 CFR part 150 program submission; and
(3) Include in its 14 CFR part 150 submission to the FAA evidence of compliance with the notice requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and include the information required for a part 161 application in § 161.311, together with a clear identification that the 14 CFR part 150 submission includes a proposed Stage 3 restriction for FAA review and approval under §§ 161.313, 161.315, and 161.317.
(c) The FAA will evaluate the proposed part 161 restriction on Stage 3 aircraft operations included in the 14 CFR part 150 submission in accordance with the procedures and standards of this part, and will review the total 14 CFR part 150 submission in accordance with the procedures and standards of 14 CFR part 150.
(d) An amendment of a restriction, as specified in § 161.319(b) of this part, may also be processed under 14 CFR part 150 procedures.
§ 161.323
Notification of a decision not to implement a restriction.
If a Stage 3 restriction has been approved by the FAA and the restriction is not subsequently implemented, the applicant shall so advise the interested parties specified in § 161.309(a) of this part.
§ 161.325
Availability of data and comments on an implemented restriction.
The applicant shall retain all relevant supporting data and all comments relating to an approved restriction for as long as the restriction is in
effect and shall make these materials available for inspection upon request by the FAA. This information shall be made available for inspection by any person during the pendency of any petition for reevaluation found justified by the FAA.

# Subpart E—Reevaluation of Stage 3 Restrictions
§ 161.401
Scope.
This subpart applies to an airport imposing a noise or access restriction on the operation of Stage 3 aircraft that first became effective after October 1, 1990, and had either been agreed to in compliance with the procedures in subpart B of this part or approved by the FAA in accordance with the procedures in subpart D of this part. This subpart does not apply to Stage 2 restrictions imposed by airports. This subpart does not apply to Stage 3 restrictions specifically exempted in § 161.7.
§ 161.403
Criteria for reevaluation.
(a) A request for reevaluation must be submitted by an aircraft operator.
(b) An aircraft operator must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FAA that there has been a change in the noise environment of the affected airport and that a review and reevaluation pursuant to the criteria in § 161.305 is therefore justified.
(1) A change in the noise environment sufficient to justify reevaluation is either a DNL change of 1.5 dB or greater (from the restriction's anticipated target noise level result) over noncompatible land uses, or a change of 17 percent or greater in the noncompatible land uses, within an airport noise study area. For approved restrictions, calculation of change shall be based on the divergence of actual noise impact of the restriction from the estimated noise impact of the restriction predicted in the analysis required in § 161.305(e)(2)(i)(A)(
1
)(
ii
). The change in the noise environment or in the noncompatible land uses may be either an increase or decrease in noise or in noncompatible land uses. An aircraft operator may submit to the FAA reasons why a change that does not fall within either of these parameters justifies reevaluation, and the FAA will consider such arguments on a case-by-case basis.
(2) A change in the noise environment justifies reevaluation if the change is likely to result in the restriction not meeting one or more of the conditions for approval set forth in § 161.305 of this part for approval. The aircraft operator must demonstrate that such a result is likely to occur.
(c) A reevaluation may not occur less than 2 years after the date of the FAA approval. The FAA will normally apply the same 2-year requirement to agreements under subpart B of this part that affect Stage 3 aircraft operations. An aircraft operator may submit to the FAA reasons why an agreement under subpart B of this part should be reevaluated in less than 2 years, and the FAA will consider such arguments on a case-by-case basis.
(d) An aircraft operator must demonstrate that it has made a good faith attempt to resolve locally any dispute over a restriction with the affected parties, including the airport operator, before requesting reevaluation by the FAA. Such demonstration and certification shall document all attempts of local dispute resolution.
[Docket 26432, 56 FR 48698, Sept. 25, 1991; 56 FR 51258, Oct. 10, 1991]
§ 161.405
Request for reevaluation.
(a) A request for reevaluation submitted to the FAA by an aircraft operator must include the following information:
(1) The name of the airport and associated cities and states;
(2) A clear, concise description of the restriction and any sanctions for noncompliance, whether the restriction was approved by the FAA or agreed to by the airport operator and aircraft operators, the date of the approval or agreement, and a copy of the restriction as incorporated in a local ordinance, airport rule, lease, or other document;
(3) The quantified change in the noise environment using methodology specified in this part;
(4) Evidence of the relationship between this change and the likelihood that the restriction does not meet one or more of the conditions in § 161.305;
(5) The aircraft operator's status under the restriction (e.g., currently affected operator, potential new entrant) and an explanation of the aircraft operator's specific objection; and
(6) A description and evidence of the aircraft operator's attempt to resolve the dispute locally with the affected parties, including the airport operator.
(b) The FAA will evaluate the aircraft operator's submission and determine whether or not a reevaluation is justified. The FAA may request additional information from the airport operator or any other party and may convene an informal meeting to gather facts relevant to its determination.
(c) The FAA will notify the aircraft operator in writing, with a copy to the affected airport operator, of its determination.
(1) If the FAA determines that a reevaluation is not justified, it will indicate the reasons for this decision.
(2) If the FAA determines that a reevaluation is justified, the aircraft operator will be notified to complete its analysis and to begin the public notice procedure, as set forth in this subpart.
§ 161.407
Notice of reevaluation.
(a) After receiving an FAA determination that a reevaluation is justified, an aircraft operator desiring continuation of the reevaluation process shall publish a notice of request for reevaluation in an areawide newspaper or newspapers that either singly or together has general circulation throughout the airport noise study area (or the airport vicinity for agreements where an airport noise study area has not been delineated); post a notice in the airport in a prominent location accessible to airport users and the public; and directly notify in writing the following parties:
(1) The airport operator, other aircraft operators providing scheduled passenger or cargo service at the airport, operators of aircraft based at the airport, potential new entrants that are known to be interested in serving the airport, and aircraft operators known to be routinely providing nonscheduled service;
(2) The Federal Aviation Administration;
(3) Each Federal, State, and local agency with land-use control jurisdiction within the airport noise study area (or the airport vicinity for agreements where an airport noise study area has not been delineated);
(4) Fixed-base operators and other airport tenants whose operations may be affected by the agreement or the restriction;
(5) Community groups and business organizations that are known to be interested in the restriction; and
(6) Any other party that commented on the original restriction.
(b) Each notice provided in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall include:
(1) The name of the airport and associated cities and states;
(2) A clear, concise description of the restriction, including whether the restriction was approved by the FAA or agreed to by the airport operator and aircraft operators, and the date of the approval or agreement;
(3) The name of the aircraft operator requesting a reevaluation, and a statement that a reevaluation has been requested and that the FAA has determined that a reevaluation is justified;
(4) A brief discussion of the reasons why a reevaluation is justified;
(5) An analysis prepared in accordance with § 161.409 of this part supporting the aircraft operator's reevaluation request, or an announcement of where the analysis is available for public inspection;
(6) An invitation to comment on the analysis supporting the proposed reevaluation, with a minimum 45-day comment period;
(7) Information on how to request a copy of the analysis (if not in the notice); and
(8) The address for submitting comments to the aircraft operator, including identification of a contact person.
§ 161.409
Required analysis by reevaluation petitioner.
(a) An aircraft operator that has petitioned the FAA to reevaluate a restriction shall assume the burden of analysis for the reevaluation.
(b) The aircraft operator's analysis shall be made available for public review under the procedures in § 161.407 and shall include the following:
(1) A copy of the restriction or the language of the agreement as incorporated in a local ordinance, airport rule, lease, or other document;
(2) The aircraft operator's status under the restriction (e.g., currently affected operator, potential new entrant) and an explanation of the aircraft operator's specific objection to the restriction;
(3) The quantified change in the noise environment using methodology specified in this part;
(4) Evidence of the relationship between this change and the likelihood that the restriction does not meet one or more of the conditions in § 161.305; and
(5) Sufficient data and analysis selected from § 161.305, as applicable to the restriction at issue, to support the contention made in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. This is to include either an adequate environmental assessment of the impacts of discontinuing all or part of a restriction in accordance with the aircraft operator's petition, or adequate information supporting a categorical exclusion under FAA orders implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321).
(c) The amount of analysis may vary with the complexity of the restriction, the number and nature of the conditions in § 161.305 that are alleged to be unsupported, and the amount of previous analysis developed in support of the restriction. The aircraft operator may incorporate analysis previously developed in support of the restriction, including previous environmental documentation to the extent applicable. The applicant is responsible for providing substantial evidence, as described in § 161.305, that one or more of the conditions are not supported.
§ 161.411
Comment by interested parties.
(a) Each aircraft operator requesting a reevaluation shall establish a docket or similar method for receiving and considering comments and shall make comments available for inspection to interested parties specified in paragraph (b) of this section upon request. Comments must be retained for two years.
(b) Each aircraft operator shall promptly notify interested parties if it makes a substantial change in its analysis that affects either the costs or benefits analyzed, or the criteria in § 161.305, differently from the analysis made available for comment in accordance with § 161.407. Interested parties include those who received direct notice under paragraph (a) of § 161.407 and those who have commented on the reevaluation. If an aircraft operator revises its analysis, it shall make the revised analysis available to an interested party upon request and shall extend the comment period at least 45 days from the date the revised analysis is made available.
§ 161.413
Reevaluation procedure.
(a) Each aircraft operator requesting a reevaluation shall submit to the FAA:
(1) The analysis described in § 161.409;
(2) Evidence that the public review process was carried out in accordance with §§ 161.407 and 161.411, including the aircraft operator's summary of the comments received; and
(3) A request that the FAA complete a reevaluation of the restriction and issue findings.
(b) Following confirmation by the FAA that the aircraft operator's documentation is complete according to the requirements of this subpart, the FAA will publish a notice of reevaluation in the
Federal Register
and provide for a 45-day comment period during which interested parties may submit comments to the FAA. The FAA will specifically solicit comments from the affected airport operator and affected local governments. A submission that is not complete will be returned to the aircraft operator with a letter indicating the deficiency, and no notice will be published. No further action will be taken by the FAA until a complete submission is received.
(c) The FAA will review all submitted documentation and comments pursuant to the conditions of § 161.305. To the extent necessary, the FAA may request additional information from
the aircraft operator, airport operator, and others known to have information material to the reevaluation, and may convene an informal meeting to gather facts relevant to a reevaluation finding.
§ 161.415
Reevaluation action.
(a) Upon completing the reevaluation, the FAA will issue appropriate orders regarding whether or not there is substantial evidence that the restriction meets the criteria in § 161.305 of this part.
(b) If the FAA's reevaluation confirms that the restriction meets the criteria, the restriction may remain as previously agreed to or approved. If the FAA's reevaluation concludes that the restriction does not meet the criteria, the FAA will withdraw a previous approval of the restriction issued under subpart D of this part to the extent necessary to bring the restriction into compliance with this part or, with respect to a restriction agreed to under subpart B of this part, the FAA will specify which criteria are not met.
(c) The FAA will publish a notice of its reevaluation findings in the
Federal Register
and notify in writing the aircraft operator that petitioned the FAA for reevaluation and the affected airport operator.
§ 161.417
Notification of status of restrictions and agreements not meeting conditions-of-approval criteria.
If the FAA has withdrawn all or part of a previous approval made under subpart D of this part, the relevant portion of the Stage 3 restriction must be rescinded. The operator of the affected airport shall notify the FAA of the operator's action with regard to a restriction affecting Stage 3 aircraft operations that has been found not to meet the criteria of § 161.305. Restrictions in agreements determined by the FAA not to meet conditions for approval may not be enforced with respect to Stage 3 aircraft operations.

# Subpart F—Failure To Comply With This Part
§ 161.501
Scope.
(a) This subpart describes the procedures to terminate eligibility for airport grant funds and authority to impose or collect passenger facility charges for an airport operator's failure to comply with the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (49 U.S.C. App. 2151
et seq.
) or this part. These procedures may be used with or in addition to any judicial proceedings initiated by the FAA to protect the national aviation system and related Federal interests.
(b) Under no conditions shall any airport operator receive revenues under the provisions of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 or impose or collect a passenger facility charge under section 1113(e) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 if the FAA determines that the airport is imposing any noise or access restriction not in compliance with the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part. Recision of, or a commitment in writing signed by an authorized official of the airport operator to rescind or permanently not enforce, a noncomplying restriction will be treated by the FAA as action restoring compliance with the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part with respect to that restriction.
§ 161.503
Informal resolution; notice of apparent violation.
Prior to the initiation of formal action to terminate eligibility for airport grant funds or authority to impose or collect passenger facility charges under this subpart, the FAA shall undertake informal resolution with the airport operator to assure compliance with the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part upon receipt of a complaint or other evidence that an airport operator has taken action to impose a noise or access restriction that appears to be in violation. This shall not preclude a FAA application for expedited judicial action for other than termination of airport grants and passenger facility charges to protect the national aviation system and violated federal interests. If informal resolution is not successful, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing of the apparent violation. The airport operator shall respond to the notice in writing not later than 20 days after receipt of the notice, and also state whether the airport operator will agree
to defer implementation or enforcement of its noise or access restriction until completion of the process under this subpart to determine compliance.
§ 161.505
Notice of proposed termination of airport grant funds and passenger facility charges.
(a) The FAA begins proceedings under this section to terminate an airport operator's eligibility for airport grant funds and authority to impose or collect passenger facility charges only if the FAA determines that informal resolution is not successful.
(b) The following procedures shall apply if an airport operator agrees in writing, within 20 days of receipt of the FAA's notice of apparent violation under § 161.503, to defer implementation or enforcement of a noise or access restriction until completion of the process under this subpart to determine compliance.
(1) The FAA will issue a notice of proposed termination to the airport operator and publish notice of the proposed action in the
Federal Register.
This notice will state the scope of the proposed termination, the basis for the proposed action, and the date for filing written comments or objections by all interested parties. This notice will also identify any corrective action the airport operator can take to avoid further proceedings. The due date for comments and corrective action by the airport operator shall be specified in the notice of proposed termination and shall not be less than 60 days after publication of the notice.
(2) The FAA will review the comments, statements, and data supplied by the airport operator, and any other available information, to determine if the airport operator has provided satisfactory evidence of compliance or has taken satisfactory corrective action. The FAA will consult with the airport operator to attempt resolution and may request additional information from other parties to determine compliance. The review and consultation process shall take not less than 30 days. If the FAA finds satisfactory evidence of compliance, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing and publish notice of compliance in the
Federal Register.
(3) If the FAA determines that the airport operator has taken action to impose a noise or access restriction in violation of the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing of such determination. Where appropriate, the FAA may prescribe corrective action, including corrective action the airport operator may still need to take. Within 10 days of receipt of the FAA's determination, the airport operator shall—
(i) Advise the FAA in writing that it will complete any corrective action prescribed by the FAA within 30 days; or
(ii) Provide the FAA with a list of the domestic air carriers and foreign air carriers operating at the airport and all other issuing carriers, as defined in § 158.3 of this chapter, that have remitted passenger facility charge revenue to the airport in the preceding 12 months.
(4) If the FAA finds that the airport operator has taken satisfactory corrective action, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing and publish notice of compliance in the
Federal Register.
If the FAA has determined that the airport operator has imposed a noise or access restriction in violation of the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part and satisfactory corrective action has not been taken, the FAA will issue an order that—
(i) Terminates eligibility for new airport grant agreements and discontinues payments of airport grant funds, including payments of costs incurred prior to the notice; and
(ii) Terminates authority to impose or collect a passenger facility charge or, if the airport operator has not received approval to impose a passenger facility charge, advises the airport operator that future applications for such approval will be denied in accordance with § 158.29(a)(1)(v) of this chapter.
(5) The FAA will publish notice of the order in the
Federal Register
and notify air carriers of the FAA's order and actions to be taken to terminate or modify collection of passenger facility charges in accordance with § 158.85(f) of this chapter.
(c) The following procedures shall apply if an airport operator does not
agree in writing, within 20 days of receipt of the FAA's notice of apparent violation under § 161.503, to defer implementation or enforcement of its noise or access restriction until completion of the process under this subpart to determine compliance.
(1) The FAA will issue a notice of proposed termination to the airport operator and publish notice of the proposed action in the
Federal Register.
This notice will state the scope of the proposed termination, the basis for the proposed action, and the date for filing written comments or objections by all interested parties. This notice will also identify any corrective action the airport operator can take to avoid further proceedings. The due date for comments and corrective action by the airport operator shall be specified in the notice of proposed termination and shall not be less than 30 days after publication of the notice.
(2) The FAA will review the comments, statements, and data supplied by the airport operator, and any other available information, to determine if the airport operator has provided satisfactory evidence of compliance or has taken satisfactory corrective action. If the FAA finds satisfactory evidence of compliance, the FAA will notify the airport operator in writing and publish notice of compliance in the
Federal Register.
(3) If the FAA determines that the airport operator has taken action to impose a noise or access restriction in violation of the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 or this part, the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section will be followed.
Pt. 169

# PART 169—EXPENDITURE OF FEDERAL FUNDS FOR NONMILITARY AIRPORTS OR AIR NAVIGATION FACILITIES THEREON
Sec.
169.1
Applicability.
169.3
Application for recommendation and certification.
169.5
FAA determination.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40101-40107, 40113-40114, 44501-44502, 46104, 47122, 47151-47153, 47302-47306.
§ 169.1
Applicability.
(a) This part prescribes the requirements for issuing a written recommendation and certification that a proposed project is reasonably necessary for use in air commerce or in the interests of national defense. The first two sentences of section 308(a) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1349(a)): (1) Require such a recommendation and certification where Federal funds are to be expended for nonmilitary purposes for airports or air navigation facilities thereon; and (2) provide that any interested person may apply to the Administrator, under regulations prescribed by him, for a recommendation and certification.
(b) This part does not apply to projects for the expenditure of Federal funds for military purposes or for airports, or air navigation facilities thereon, operated by the Federal Aviation Administration.
[Docket 9256, 34 FR 5718, Mar. 27, 1969]
§ 169.3
Application for recommendation and certification.
(a) Any interested person may apply to the Administrator for a recommendation and certification with respect to a proposed project for the acquisition, establishment, construction, alteration, repair, maintenance, or operation of an airport or an air navigation facility thereon by or in his interests, on which Federal funds are proposed to be expended for nonmilitary purposes. The application shall be filed with the Regional Airports Division or Airports District Office, whichever is appropriate, in whose geographical area the airport is located. The application must state—
(1) The name and address of the applicant, the owner of the airport, and the individual responsible for its operation and maintenance, and the interest of the applicant in the matter;
(2) The location of the airport, and of any air navigation facilities thereon;
(3) A technical description of the project;
(4) The information contained in the notice required by § 157.3 of this chapter; and
(5) All available pertinent data relating to the necessity of the airport or
air navigation facility for use in air commerce including where applicable—
(i) The number and type of aircraft that use or would use the airport or facility;
(ii) The present and expected level of activity;
(iii) Any special use of the airport or facility such as its providing access to places of recreation as national forests or parks or to isolated communities where access by other means is not available or is curtailed by climatic condition; and
(iv) In the case of an airport or air navigation facility owned, operated, or maintained by a Federal agency other than the FAA, the relationship of the airport or facility to the performance of that agency's functions.
(b) Each of the following has the effect of a recommendation and certification, and a separate application under this part with respect thereto is not required:
(1) Approval of a project under section 16 of the Airport and Airway Development Act of 1970 (49 U.S.C. 1701).
(2) Inclusion of an airport in the National Airport System Plan, if—
(i) Notice of construction or alteration required by § 157.3 of this chapter has been given; and
(ii) The Administrator has determined that there is no objection to the proposed construction or alteration.
[Docket 9256, 34 FR 5718, Mar. 27, 1969, as amended by Amdt. 169-1, 37 FR 21322, Oct. 7, 1972; Amdt. 169-2, 54 FR 39295, Sept. 25, 1989]
§ 169.5
FAA determination.
(a) The Administrator issues a recommendation and certification if he finds that the airport or facility is reasonably necessary for use in air commerce or in the interests of national defense; that it conforms to all applicable plans and policies for, and allocations of, airspace; and that it otherwise complies with requirements of Federal law properly considered by the Administrator. The Administrator may grant the recommendation and certification subject to conditions that ensure conformity of the airport or facility with these standards.
(b) A recommendation and certification under this part, express or implied, does not extend to a modified version of an airport or facility to which it applies, or to an additional area or facility at the same airport.
(c) If the application is denied the Administrator notifies the applicant of the grounds for the denial. The Administrator may revoke a recommendation and certification for proper cause.
(d) The authority of the Administrator under this part is exercised by Regional Airports Division Managers as to airports or facilities within their respective regions.
[Docket 9256, 34 FR 5718, Mar. 27, 1969, as amended by Amdt. 169-1, 37 FR 21322, Oct. 7, 1972; Amdt. 169-2, 54 FR 39295, Sept. 25, 1989]

# SUBCHAPTER J—NAVIGATIONAL FACILITIES
Pt. 170

# PART 170—ESTABLISHMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE CRITERIA FOR AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL SERVICES AND NAVIGATIONAL FACILITIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
170.1
Scope.
170.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Airport Traffic Control Towers
170.11
Scope.
170.13
Airport Traffic Control Tower (ATCT) establishment criteria.
170.15
ATCT discontinuance criteria.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40103-40107, 40113, 44502, 44701-44702, 44708-44709, 44719, 44721-44722, 46308.

# Source:
56 FR 341, Jan. 3, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 170.1
Scope.
This subpart sets forth establishment and discontinuance criteria for navigation aids operated and maintained by the United States.
§ 170.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart—
Air navigation facility
(NAVAID) means any facility used, available for use, or designated for use in the aid of air navigation. Included are landing areas; lights; signaling, radio direction-finding, or radio or other electronic communication; and any other structure or mechanism having a similar purpose of guiding or controlling flight or the landing or takeoff of aircraft.
Air traffic clearance
means an authorization by air traffic control for an aircraft to proceed under specified traffic conditions within controlled airspace for the purpose of preventing collision between known aircraft.
Air traffic control
(ATC) means a service that promotes the safe, orderly, and expeditious flow of air traffic, including airport, approach, departure, and en route air traffic control.
Air traffic controller
means a person authorized to provide air traffic service, specifically en route and terminal control personnel.
Aircraft operations
means the airborne movement of aircraft in controlled or noncontrolled airport terminal areas, and counts at en route fixes or other points where counts can be made. There are two types of operations: local and itinerant.
(1)
Local operations
mean operations performed by aircraft which:
(i) Operate in the local traffic pattern or within sight of the airport;
(ii) Are known to be departing for, or arriving from flight in local practice areas located within a 20-mile radius of the airport; or
(iii) Execute simulated instrument approaches or low passes at the airport.
(2)
Itinerant operations
mean all aircraft operations other than local operations.
Airport traffic control tower
means a terminal facility, which through the use of air/ground communications, visual signaling, and other devices, provides ATC services to airborne aircraft operating in the vicinity of an airport and to aircraft operating on the airport area.
Alternate airport
means an airport, specified on a flight plan, to which a flight may proceed when a landing at the point of first intended landing becomes inadvisable.
Approach
means the flight path established by the FAA to be used by aircraft landing on a runway.
Approach control facility
means a terminal air traffic control facility providing approach control service.
Arrival
means any aircraft arriving at an airport.
Benefit-cost ratio
means the quotient of the discounted life cycle benefits of an air traffic control service or navigation aid facility (
i.e.
, ATCT) divided by the discounted life cycle costs.
Ceiling
means the vertical distance between the ground or water and the lowest layer of clouds or obscuring phenomena that is reported as “broken,” “overcast,” or “obstruction.”
Control Tower
—See Airport Traffic Control Tower.
Criteria
means the standards used by the FAA for the determination of establishment or discontinuance of a service or facility at an airport.
Departure
means any aircraft taking off from an airport.
Discontinuance
means the withdrawal of a service and/or facility from an airport.
Establishment
means the provision of a service or facility at a candidate airport.
Instrument approach
means a series of predetermined maneuvers for the orderly transfer of an aircraft under instrument flight conditions from the beginning of the initial approach to a landing, or to a point from which a landing may be made visually. It is prescribed and approved for a specific airport by competent authority.
Instrument flight rules
(IFR) means rules governing the procedures for conducting flight under instrument meteorological conditions (IMC) instrument flight.
Instrument landing system
(ILS) means an instrument landing system whereby the pilot guides his approach to a runway solely by reference to instruments in the cockpit. In some instances, the signals received from the ground can be fed into the automatic pilot for automatically controlled approaches.
Instrument meteorological conditions
(IMC) means weather conditions below the minimums prescribed for flight under Visual Flight Rules (VFR).
Instrument operation
means an aircraft operation in accordance with an IFT flight plan or an operation where IFR separation between aircraft is provided by a terminal control facility or air route traffic control center (ARTCC).
Life cycle benefits
means the value of services provided to aviation users over the life span of a facility or service.
Life cycle costs
means the value of research and development costs, investment costs, operation costs, maintenance costs, and termination costs over the life span of a facility or service.
Maintenance costs
means the costs incurred in servicing and maintaining a facility after establishment.
Mean sea level
(MSL) means the base commonly used in measuring altitudes.
Microwave landing system
(MLS) means a landing system which enables equipped aircraft to make curved and closely spaced approaches to properly instrumented airports.
Noncommercial traffic
means all aircraft operations that are conducted free of compensation.
Nonprecision approach procedure
means an FAA standard for approaching an IFR runway where no electronic glide slope is available.
Nonscheduled commercial service
means the carriage by aircraft in air commerce of persons or property for compensation or hire that are not operated in regularly scheduled service such as charter flights.
Present value
(PV) means the value of a stream of future benefits or costs that are discounted to the present.
PVB
or
BPV
means the discounted value of life cycle benefits.
PVC
or
CPV
means the discounted value of life cycle benefits.
PVCM
or
CMPV
means the discounted value of operations and maintenance costs less termination costs over a facility's remaining life cycle.
Runway
means a defined rectangular area on a land airport prepared for the landing and takeoff of aircraft along its length.
Runway visual range
means an instrumentally derived value based on standard calibrations that represent the horizontal distance a pilot will see down the runway from the approach end.
Scheduled commercial service
means the carriage by aircraft in air commerce under parts 121 and 135 of persons or property for compensation or hire based on published flight schedules.
Separation
means the spacing of aircraft in flight and while landing and taking off to achieve their safe and orderly movement.
Takeoff clearance
means authorization by an airport traffic control tower for an aircraft to take off.
Tower cab
means an ATC facility located at an airport. Controllers at these facilities direct ground traffic, takeoffs, and landings.
Traffic advisories
means advisories issued to alert pilots to other known or
observed air traffic which may be in such proximity to the position or intended route of flight of their aircraft to warrant attention.
Traffic pattern
means the flow of aircraft operating on and in the vicinity of an airport during specified wind conditions as established by appropriate authority.
VFR traffic
means aircraft operated solely in accordance with Visual Flight Rules.
Visual flight rules
(VFR) means rules that govern the procedures for conducting flight under visual conditions. The term “VFR” is also used in the United States to indicate weather conditions that are equal to or greater than minimum VFR requirements. In addition, “VFR” is used by pilots and controllers to indicate the type of flight plan.
Visual meteorological conditions
(VMC) means meteorological conditions expressed in terms of visibility, distance from clouds, and ceiling equal to or better than specified minima.
[56 FR 341, Jan. 3, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 170-3, 66 FR 21067, Apr. 27, 2001; Docket FAA-2017-0733, Amdt. 170-4, 82 FR 34400, July 25, 2017]

# Subpart B—Airport Traffic Control Towers
§ 170.11
Scope.
This subpart sets forth establishment and discontinuance criteria for Airport Traffic Control Towers.
§ 170.13
Airport Traffic Control Tower (ATCT) establishment criteria.
(a) The following criteria along with general facility establishment standards must be met before an airport can qualify for an ATCT:
(1) The airport, whether publicly or privately owned, must be open to and available for use by the public as defined in the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982;
(2) The airport must be recognized by and contained within the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems;
(3) The airport owners/authorities must have entered into appropriate assurances and covenants to guarantee that the airport will continue in operation for a long enough period to permit the amortization of the ATCT investment;
(4) The FAA must be furnished appropriate land without cost for construction of the ATCT; and
(5) The airport must meet the benefit-cost ratio criteria specified herein utilizing three consecutive FAA annual counts and projections of future traffic during the expected life of the tower facility. (An FAA annual count is a fiscal year or a calendar year activity summary. Where actual traffic counts are unavailable or not recorded, adequately documented FAA estimates of the scheduled and nonscheduled activity may be used.)
(b) An airport meets the establishment criteria when it satisfies paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section and its benefit-cost ratio equals or exceeds one. As defined in § 170.3 of this part, the benefit-cost ratio is the ratio of the present value of the ATCT life cycle benefits (BPV) to the present value of ATCT life cycle costs (CPV).
BPV/CPV≥1.0
(c) The satisfaction of all the criteria listed in this section does not guarantee that the airport will receive an ATCT.
§ 170.15
ATCT discontinuance criteria.
An ATCT will be subject to discontinuance when the continued operation and maintenance costs less termination costs (CMPV) of the ATCT exceed the present value of its remaining life-cycle benefits (BPV):
BPV/CMPV
1.0
Subpart C [Reserved]
Pt. 171

# PART 171—NON-FEDERAL NAVIGATION FACILITIES

# Subpart A—VOR Facilities
Sec.
171.1
Scope.
171.3
Requests for IFR procedure.
171.5
Minimum requirements for approval.
171.7
Performance requirements.
171.9
Installation requirements.
171.11
Maintenance and operations requirements.
171.13
Reports.

# Subpart B—Nondirectional Radio Beacon Facilities
171.21
Scope.
171.23
Requests for IFR procedure.
171.25
Minimum requirements for approval.
171.27
Performance requirements.
171.29
Installation requirements.
171.31
Maintenance and operations requirements.
171.33
Reports.

# Subpart C—Instrument Landing System (ILS) Facilities
171.41
Scope.
171.43
Requests for IFR procedure.
171.45
Minimum requirements for approval.
171.47
Performance requirements.
171.49
Installation requirements.
171.51
Maintenance and operations requirements.
171.53
Reports.

# Subpart D—True Lights
171.61
Air navigation certificate: Revocation and termination.

# Subpart E—General
171.71
Materials incorporated by reference.
171.73
Alternative forms of reports.
171.75
Submission of requests.

# Subpart F—Simplified Directional Facility (SDF)
171.101
Scope.
171.103
Requests for IFR procedure.
171.105
Minimum requirements for approval.
171.107
Definition.
171.109
Performance requirements.
171.111
Ground standards and tolerances.
171.113
Installation requirements.
171.115
Maintenance and operations requirements.
171.117
Reports.

# Subpart G—Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)
171.151
Scope.
171.153
Requests for IFR procedure.
171.155
Minimum requirements for approval.
171.157
Performance requirements.
171.159
Installation requirements.
171.161
Maintenance and operations requirements.
171.163
Reports.

# Subpart H—VHF Marker Beacons
171.201
Scope.
171.203
Requests for IFR procedure.
171.205
Minimum requirements for approval.
171.207
Performance requirements.
171.209
Installation requirements.
171.211
Maintenance and operations requirements.
171.213
Reports.

# Subpart I—Interim Standard Microwave Landing System (ISMLS)
171.251
Scope.
171.253
Definitions.
171.255
Requests for IFR procedures.
171.257
Minimum requirements for approval.
171.259
Performance requirements: General.
171.261
Localizer performance requirements.
171.263
Localizer automatic monitor system.
171.265
Glide path performance requirements.
171.267
Glide path automatic monitor system.
171.269
Marker beacon performance requirements.
171.271
Installation requirements.
171.273
Maintenance and operations requirements.
171.275
Reports.

# Subpart J—Microwave Landing System (MLS)
171.301
Scope.
171.303
Definitions.
171.305
Requests for IFR procedure.
171.307
Minimum requirements for approval.
171.309
General requirements.
171.311
Signal format requirements.
171.313
Azimuth performance requirements.
171.315
Azimuth monitor system requirements.
171.317
Approach elevation performance requirements.
171.319
Approach elevation monitor system requirements.
171.321
DME and marker beacon performance requirements.
171.323
Fabrication and installation requirements.
171.325
Maintenance and operations requirements.
171.327
Operational records.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40103-40107, 40109, 40113, 44502, 44701-44702, 44708-44709, 44711, 44719-44721, 45303, 46308.

# Source:
Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—VOR Facilities
§ 171.1
Scope.
This subpart sets forth minimum requirements for the approval and operation on non-Federal VOR facilities that are to be involved in the approval
of instrument flight rules and air traffic control procedures related to those facilities.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-2, 31 FR 5408, Apr. 6, 1966; Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970]
§ 171.3
Requests for IFR procedure.
(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on a VOR facility that he owns must submit the following information with that request:
(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of § 171.7 and is installed in accordance with § 171.9.
(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.
(3) A proposed maintenance organization and maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.11.
(4) A statement of intention to meet the requirements of this subpart.
(5) A showing that the facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability and an acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this paragraph.
(b) After the FAA inspects and evaluates the facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the facility or the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the facility for an in-service evaluation by the FAA.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970]
§ 171.5
Minimum requirements for approval.
(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the FAA will approve an IFR procedure for a non-Federal VOR:
(1) The facility's performance, as determined by air and ground inspection, must meet the requirements of § 171.7.
(2) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.9.
(3) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the facility in accord- ance with § 171.11.
(4) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports, as set forth in § 171.13, and must agree to allow the FAA to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.
(5) The owner must assure the FAA that he will not withdraw the facility from service without the permission of the FAA.
(6) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspections made before the facility is commissioned, except that the Federal Aviation Administration may bear certain of these costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.
(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the FAA commissions the facility as a prerequisite to its approval for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time the facility does not continue to meet those requirements.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-6, 35 FR 10288, June 24, 1970]
§ 171.7
Performance requirements.
(a) The VOR must perform in accordance with the “International Standards and Recommended Practices, Aeronautical Telecommunications,” Part I, paragraph 3.3 (Annex 10 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation), except that part of paragraph 3.3.2.1 specifying a radio frequency tolerance of 0.005 percent, and that part of paragraph 3.3.7 requiring removal of only the bearing information. In place thereof, the frequency tolerance of the radio frequency carrier must not exceed plus or minus 0.002 percent, and all radiation must be removed during the specified deviations from established conditions and during periods of monitor failure.
(b) Ground inspection consists of an examination of the design features of the equipment to determine that there will not be conditions that will allow unsafe operations because of component failure or deterioration.
(c) The monitor is checked periodi- cally, during the in-service test evaluation period, for calibration and stability The tests are made with a standard “Reference and variable phase signal generator” and associated test equipment, including an oscilloscope and portable field detector. In general, the ground check is conducted in accord- ance with section 8.4 of FAA Handbook AF P 6790.9 “Maintenance Instruction for VHF Omniranges”, adapted for the facility concerned.
(d) Flight tests to determine the facility's adequacy for operational requirements and compliance with applicable “Standards and Recommended Practices” are conducted in accordance with the “U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual”, particularly section 201.
(e) After January 1, 1975, the owner of the VOR shall modify the facility to perform in accordance with paragraph 3.3.5.7 of Annex 10 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation within 180 days after receipt of notice from the Administrator that 50 kHz channel spacing is to be implemented in the area and that a requirement exists for suppression of 9960 Hz subcarrier harmonics.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970; Amdt. 171-9, 38 FR 28557, Oct. 15, 1973]
§ 171.9
Installation requirements.
(a) The facility must be installed according to accepted good engineering practices, applicable electric and safety codes, and the installation must meet at least the Federal Communication Commission's licensing requirements.
(b) The facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power, either from a power distribution system or locally generated, with a supplemental standby system, if needed.
(c) Dual transmitting equipment with automatic changeover is preferred and may be required to support certain IFR procedures.
(d) There must be a means for determining, from the ground, the performance of the equipment, including the antenna, initially and periodically.
(e) A facility intended for use as an instrument approach aid for an airport must have or be supplemented by (depending on circumstances) the following ground-air or landline communications services:
(1) At facilities outside of and not immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be ground-air communications from the airport served by the facility. Separate communications channels are acceptable.
(2) At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be the ground-air communications required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section and reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest FAA air traffic control or communication facility.
Paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section are not mandatory at airports where an adjacent FAA facility can communicate with aircraft on the ground at the airport and during the entire proposed instrument approach procedure. In addition, at low traffic density airports within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace and where extensive delays are not a factor, the requirements of paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section may be reduced to reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest FAA air traffic control or communication facility, if an adjacent FAA facility can communicate with aircraft during the proposed instrument approach procedure, at least down to the minimum en route altitude for the controlled airspace area.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970; Amdt. 171-16, 56 FR 65664, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 171.11
Maintenance and operations requirements.
(a) The owner of the facility must establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility must meet at least the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills
needed to maintain the facility including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.
(b) The owner must prepare, and obtain FAA approval of, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth mandatory procedures for operations, preventive maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:
(1) Physical security of the facility.
(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.
(3) FCC licensing requirements for operating and maintenance personnel.
(4) Posting of licenses and signs.
(5) Relations between the facility and FAA air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information (if applicable), and instructions for the operation of an air traffic advisory service if the VOR is located outside of controlled airspace.
(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.
(7) Detailed and specific maintenance procedures and servicing guides stating the frequency of servicing.
(8) Air-ground communications, if provided, expressly written or incorporating appropriate sections of FAA manuals by reference.
(9) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by § 171.13.
(10) Monitoring of the facility.
(11) Inspections by United States personnel.
(12) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.
(13) Shutdowns for routine maintenance and issue of “Notices to Airmen” for routine or emergency shutdowns (private use facilities may omit the “Notices to Airmen”).
(14) An explanation of the kinds of activity (such as construction or grading) in the vicinity of the facility that may require shutdown or recertification of the facility by FAA flight check.
(15) Procedures for conducting a ground check of course accuracy.
(16) Commissioning of the facility.
(17) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.
(18) The following information concerning the facility:
(i) Location by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, and its position with respect to airport layouts.
(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that will provide the service.
(iii) The station power emission and frequency.
(iv) The hours of operation.
(v) Station identification call letters and method of station identification, whether by Morse code or recorded voice announcement, and the time spacing of the identification.
(vi) A description of the critical parts that may not be changed, adjusted, or repaired without an FAA flight check to confirm published operations.
(c) The owner shall make a ground check of course accuracy each month in accordance with procedures approved by the FAA at the time of commissioning, and shall report the results of the checks as provided in § 171.13.
(d) If the owner desires to modify the facility, he must submit the proposal to the FAA and may not allow any modifications to be made without specific approval.
(e) The owner's maintenance personnel must participate in initial inspections made by the FAA. In the case of subsequent inspections, the owner or his representative shall participate.
(f) Whenever it is required by the FAA, the owner shall incorporate improvements in VOR maintenance brought about by progress in the state of the art. In addition, he shall provide a stock of spare parts, including vacuum tubes, of such a quantity to make possible the prompt replacement of components that fail or deteriorate in service.
(g) The owner shall provide all approved test instruments needed for maintenance of the facility.
(h) The owner shall close the facility upon receiving two successive pilot reports of its malfunctioning.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-2, 31 FR 5408, Apr. 6, 1966]
§ 171.13
Reports.
The owner of each facility to which this subpart applies shall make the following reports on forms furnished by the FAA, at the times indicated, to the FAA Regional office for the area in which the facility is located:
(a)
Record of meter readings and adjustments
(
Form FAA-198
). To be filled out by the owner with the equipment adjustments and meter readings as of the time of commissioning, with one copy to be kept in the permanent records of the facility and two copies to the appropriate Regional office of the FAA. The owner shall revise the form after any major repair, modernization, or returning, to reflect an accurate record of facility operation and adjustment.
(b)
Facility maintenance log
(
FAA Form 6003-1
). This form is a permanent record of all equipment malfunctioning met in maintaining the facility, including information on the kind of work and adjustments made, equipment failures, causes (if determined), and corrective action taken. The owner shall keep the original of each report at the facility and send a copy to the appropriate Regional office of the FAA at the end of the month in which it is prepared.
(c)
Radio equipment operation record
(
Form FAA-418
). To contain a complete record of meter readings, recorded on each scheduled visit to the facility. The owner shall keep the original of each month's record at the facility and send a copy of it to the appropriate Regional office of the FAA.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
VOR ground check error data
(
Forms FAA-2396 and 2397
). To contain results of the monthly course accuracy ground check in accordance with FAA Handbook AF P 6790.9 “Maintenance Instructions for VHF Omniranges”. The owner shall keep the originals in the facility and send a copy of each form to the appropriate Regional office of the FAA on a monthly basis.
(49 U.S.C. 1348)
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-5, 34 FR 15245, Sept. 30, 1969; Amdt. 171-10, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975]

# Subpart B—Nondirectional Radio Beacon Facilities
§ 171.21
Scope.
(a) This subpart sets forth minimum requirements for the approval and operation of non-Federal, nondirectional radio beacon facilities that are to be involved in the approval of instrument flight rules and air traffic control procedures related to those facilities.
(b) A nondirectional radio beacon (“H” facilities domestically—NDB facilities internationally) radiates a continuous carrier of approximately equal intensity at all azimuths. The carrier is modulated at 1020 cycles per second for station identification purposes.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-2, 31 FR 5408, Apr. 6, 1966; Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970]
§ 171.23
Requests for IFR procedure.
(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on a nondirectional radio beacon facility that he owns must submit the following information with that request:
(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of § 171.27 and is installed in accordance with § 171.29.
(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.
(3) A proposed maintenance arrangement and a maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.31.
(4) A statement of intention to meet the requirements of this subpart.
(5) A showing that the facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability and an acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this subparagraph.
(b) After the FAA inspects and evaluates the facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the facility or the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the
facility for an in-service evaluation by the FAA.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970]
§ 171.25
Minimum requirements for approval.
(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the FAA will approve an IFR procedure for a non-Federal, nondirectional radio beacon facility under this subpart:
(1) The facility's performances, as determined by air and ground inspection, must meet the requirements of § 171.27.
(2) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.29.
(3) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the facility in accord- ance with § 171.31.
(4) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports, as set forth in § 171.33, and agree to allow the FAA to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.
(5) The owner must assure the FAA that he will not withdraw the facility from service without the permission of the FAA.
(6) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspections made before the facility is commissioned, except that the Federal Aviation Administration may bear certain of these costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.
(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the FAA commissions the facility as a prerequisite to its approval for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time the facility does not continue to meet those requirements. In addition, the facility may be de-commissioned whenever the frequency channel is needed for higher priority common system service.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-6, 35 FR 10288, June 24, 1970]
§ 171.27
Performance requirements.
(a) The facility must meet the performance requirements set forth in the “International Standards and Recommended Practices, Aeronautical Telecommunications, Part I, paragraph 3.4” (Annex 10 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation), except that identification by on-off keying of a second carrier frequency, separated from the main carrier by 1020 Hz plus or minus 50 Hz, is also acceptable.
(b) The facility must perform in accordance with recognized and accepted good electronic engineering practices for the desired service.
(c) Ground inspection consists of an examination of the design features of the equipment to determine (based on recognized and accepted good engineering practices) that there will not be conditions that will allow unsafe operations because of component failure or deterioration.
(d) Flight tests to determine the facility's adequacy for operational requirements and compliance with applicable “Standards and Recommended Practices” are conducted in accord- ance with the “U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual”, particularly section 207. The original test is made by the FAA and later tests shall be made under arrangements, satisfactory to the FAA, that are made by the owner.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970]
§ 171.29
Installation requirements.
(a) The facility must be installed according to accepted good engineering practices, applicable electric and safety codes, and FCC licensing requirements.
(b) The facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power.
(c) Dual transmitting equipment may be required to support some IFR procedures.
(d) A facility intended for use as an instrument approach aid for an airport must have or be supplemented by (depending on the circumstances) the following ground-air or landline communications services:
(1) At facilities outside of and not immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be ground-air communications from the airport served by the facility. Voice on the aid controlled from the airport is acceptable.
(2) At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be the ground-air communications required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest FAA air traffic control or communication facility.
Paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section are not mandatory at airports where an adjacent FAA facility can communicate with aircraft on the ground at the airport and during the entire proposed instrument approach procedure. In addition, at low traffic density airports within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, and where extensive delays are not a factor, the requirements of paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section may be reduced to reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest FAA air traffic control or communications facility, if an adjacent FAA facility can communicate with aircraft during the proposed instrument approach procedure, at least down to the minimum en route altitude for the controlled airspace area.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-16, 56 FR 65664, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 171.31
Maintenance and operations requirements.
(a) The owner of the facility must establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility must meet at least the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain the facility including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.
(b) The owner must prepare, and obtain approval of, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth mandatory procedures for operations, preventive maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:
(1) Physical security of the facility.
(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.
(3) FCC licensing requirements for operating and maintenance personnel.
(4) Posting of licenses and signs.
(5) Relations between the facility and FAA air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information (if applicable), and instructions for the operation of an air traffic advisory service if the facility is located outside of controlled airspace.
(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.
(7) Detailed arrangements for maintenance flight inspection and servicing stating the frequency of servicing.
(8) Air-ground communications, if provided, expressly written or incorporating appropriate sections of FAA manuals by reference.
(9) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by § 171.33.
(10) Monitoring of the facility, at least once each half hour, to assure continuous operation.
(11) Inspections by United States personnel.
(12) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.
(13) Shutdowns for routine maintenance and issue of “Notices to Airmen” for routine or emergency shutdowns (private use facilities may omit the “Notices to Airmen”).
(14) Commissioning of the facility.
(15) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.
(16) The following information concerning the facility:
(i) Location by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, and its position with respect to airport layouts.
(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that will provide the service.
(iii) The station power emission and frequency.
(iv) The hours of operation.
(v) Station identification call letters and method of station identification, whether by Morse code or recorded
voice announcement, and the time spacing of the identification.
(c) If the owner desires to modify the facility, he must submit the proposal to the FAA and meet applicable requirements of the FCC.
(d) The owner's maintenance personnel must participate in initial inspections made by the FAA. In the case of subsequent inspections, the owner or his representative shall participate.
(e) The owner shall provide a stock of spare parts, including vacuum tubes, of such a quantity to make possible the prompt replacement of components that fail or deteriorate in service.
(f) The owner shall close the facility upon receiving two successive pilot reports of its malfunctioning.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-2, 31 FR 5408, Apr. 6, 1966]
§ 171.33
Reports.
The owner of each facility to which this subpart applies shall make the following reports, at the times indicated, to the FAA Regional office for the area in which the facility is located:
(a)
Record of meter readings and adjustments
(
Form FAA-198
). To be filled out by the owner or his maintenance representative with the equipment adjustments and meter readings as of the time of commissioning, with one copy to be kept in the permanent records of the facility and two copies to the appropriate Regional Office of the FAA. The owner shall revise the form after any major repair, modernization, or returning, to reflect an accurate record of facility operation and adjustment.
(b)
Facility maintenance log
(
FAA Form 6030-1
). This form is a permanent record of all equipment malfunctioning met in maintaining the facility, including information on the kind of work and adjustments made, equipment failures, causes (if determined), and corrective action taken. The owner shall keep the original of each report at the facility and send a copy to the appropriate Regional Office of the FAA at the end of the month in which it is prepared.
(c)
Radio equipment operation record
(
Form FAA-418
). To contain a complete record of meter readings, recorded on each scheduled visit to the facility. The owner shall keep the original of each month's record at the facility and send a copy of it to the appropriate Regional Office of the FAA.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-10, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975]

# Subpart C—Instrument Landing System (ILS) Facilities
§ 171.41
Scope.
This subpart sets forth minimum requirements for the approval and operation of non-Federal Instrument Landing System (ILS) Facilities that are to be involved in the approval of instrument flight rules and air traffic control procedures related to those facilities.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-2, 31 FR 5408, Apr. 6, 1966; Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970]
§ 171.43
Requests for IFR procedure.
(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on an ILS facility that he owns must submit the following information with that request:
(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of § 171.47 and is installed in accordance with § 171.49.
(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.
(3) A proposed maintenance organization and a maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.51.
(4) A statement of intent to meet the requirements of this subpart.
(5) A showing that the facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability and an acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this subparagraph.
(b) After the FAA inspects and evaluates the facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the facility or the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the
facility for an in-service evaluation by the FAA.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970]
§ 171.45
Minimum requirements for approval.
(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the FAA will approve an IFR procedure for a non-Federal Instrument Landing System:
(1) The facility's performance, as determined by air and ground inspection, must meet the requirements of § 171.47.
(2) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.49.
(3) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the facility in accord- ance with § 171.51.
(4) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports, as set forth in § 171.53 and agree to allow the FAA to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.
(5) The owner must assure the FAA that he will not withdraw the facility from service without the permission of the FAA.
(6) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspections made before the facility is commissioned, except that the Federal Aviation Administration may bear certain of these costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.
(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the FAA commissions the facility as a prerequisite to its approval for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time the facility does not continue to meet those requirements. In addition, the facility may be de-commissioned whenever the frequency channel is needed for higher priority common system service.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-6, 35 FR 10288, June 24, 1970]
§ 171.47
Performance requirements.
(a) The Instrument Landing System must perform in accordance with the “International Standards and Recommended Practices, Aeronautical Telecommunications, Part I, Paragraph 3.1” (Annex 10 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation) except as follows:
(1) The first part of paragraph 3.1.3, relating to suppression of radiation wholly or in part in any or all directions outside the 20-degree sector centered on the course line to reduce localizer does not apply.
(2) Radiation patterns must conform to limits specified in 3.1.3.3 and 3.1.3.4, but this does not mean that suppression of radiation to the rear of the antenna array to satisfy difficult siting positions (as per 3.1.3.1.4) is not allowed. For example, if a reflector screen for the antenna array is required to overcome a siting problem, the area to the rear of the localizer may be made unusable and should be so advertised.
(3) A third marker beacon (inner marker) is not required.
(4) The frequency tolerance of the radio frequency carrier must not exceed plus or minus 0.002 percent.
(b) Ground inspection consists of an examination of the design features of the equipment to determine that there will not be conditions that will allow unsafe operations because of component failure or deterioration.
(c) The monitor is checked periodically, during the in-service test evaluation period, for calibration and stability. These tests, and ground checks of glide slope and localizer radiation characteristics, are conducted in accordance with FAA Handbooks AF P 6750.1 and AF P 6750.2 “Maintenance Instructions for ILS Localizer Equipment” and “Maintenance Instructions for ILS Glide Slope Equipment”.
(d) Flight tests to determine the facility's adequacy for operational requirements and compliance with applicable “Standards and Recommended Practices” are conducted in accord- ance with the “U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual”, particularly section 217.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 171-9, 38 FR 28557, Oct. 15, 1973]
§ 171.49
Installation requirements.
(a) The facility must be of a permanent nature, located, constructed, and installed according to ICAO Standards (Annex 10), accepted good engineering practices, applicable electric and safety codes, and FCC licensing requirements.
(b) The facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power, either from a power distribution system or locally generated. A determination by the Administrator as to whether a facility will be required to have stand-by power for the localizer, glide slope and monitor accessories to supplement the primary power, will be made for each airport based upon operational minimums and density of air traffic.
(c) A determination by the Administrator as to whether a facility will be required to have dual transmitting equipment with automatic changeover for localizer and glide slope components, will be made for each airport based upon operational minimums and density of air traffic.
(d) There must be a means for determining, from the ground, the perform- ance of the equipment (including antennae), initially and periodically.
(e) The facility must have, or be supplemented by (depending on the circumstances) the following ground-air or landline communications services:
(1) At facilities outside of and not immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be ground-air communications from the airport served by the facility. The utilization of voice on the ILS frequency should be determined by the facility operator on an individual basis.
(2) At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be the ground-air communications required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section and reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest FAA air traffic control or communications facility.
Paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section are not mandatory at airports where an adjacent FAA facility can communicate with aircraft on the ground at the airport and during the entire proposed instrument approach procedure. In addition, at low traffic density airports within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, and where extensive delays are not a factor, the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section may be reduced to reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest FAA air traffic control or communications facility, if an adjacent FAA facility can communicate with aircraft during the proposed instrument approach procedure down to the airport surface or at least to the minimum approach altitude.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-6, 35 FR 10288, June 24, 1970; Amdt. 171-16, 56 FR 65664, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 171.51
Maintenance and operations requirements.
(a) The owner of the facility must establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility must meet at least the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain the facility including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.
(b) The owner must prepare, and obtain approval of, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth mandatory procedures for operations, preventive maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:
(1) Physical security of the facility.
(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.
(3) FCC licensing requirements for operating and maintenance personnel.
(4) Posting of licenses and signs.
(5) Relation between the facility and FAA air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information (if applicable), and instructions for the operations of an air traffic advisory service if the facility is located outside of controlled airspace.
(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.
(7) Detailed and specific maintenance procedures and servicing guides stating the frequency of servicing.
(8) Air-ground communications, if provided, expressly written or incorporating appropriate sections of FAA manuals by reference.
(9) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by § 171.53.
(10) Monitoring of the facility.
(11) Inspections by United States personnel.
(12) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.
(13) Shutdowns for routine maintenance and issue of “Notices to Airmen” for routine or emergency shutdowns (private use facilities may omit the “Notices to Airmen”).
(14) Commissioning of the facility.
(15) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.
(16) An explanation of the kinds of activities (such as construction or grading) in the vicinity of the facility that may require shutdown or recertification of the facility by FAA flight check.
(17) Procedures for conducting a ground check or localizer course alignment width, and clearance, and glide slope elevation angle and width.
(18) The following information concerning the facility:
(i) Facility component locations with respect to airport layout, instrument runway, and similar areas.
(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that will provide the service.
(iii) The station power emission and frequencies of the localizer, glide slope, markers, and associated compass locators, if any.
(iv) The hours of operation.
(v) Station identification call letters and method of station identification and the time spacing of the identification.
(vi) A description of the critical parts that may not be changed, adjusted, or repaired without an FAA flight check to confirm published operations.
(c) The owner shall make a ground check of the facility each month in accordance with procedures approved by the FAA at the time of commissioning, and shall report the results of the checks as provided in § 171.53.
(d) If the owner desires to modify the facility, he must submit the proposal to the FAA and may not allow any modifications to be made without specific approval.
(e) “The owner's maintenance personnel must participate in initial inspections made by the FAA. In the case of subsequent inspections, the owner or his representative shall participate.”
(f) Whenever it is required by the FAA, the owner shall incorporate improvements in ILS maintenance brought about by progress in the state of the art. In addition, he shall provide a stock of spare parts, including vacuum tubes, of such a quantity to make possible the prompt replacement of components that fail or deteriorate in service.
(g) The owner shall provide FAA approved test instruments needed for maintenance of the facility.
(h) The owner shall close the facility upon receiving two successive pilot reports of its malfunctioning.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-2, 31 FR 5408, Apr. 6, 1966]
§ 171.53
Reports.
The owner of each facility to which this subpart applies shall make the following reports, at the times indicated, to the FAA Regional Office for the area in which the facility is located:
(a)
Record of meter readings and adjustments
(
Form FAA-198
). To be filled out by the owner or his maintenance representative with the equipment adjustments and meter readings as of the time of commissioning, with one copy to be kept in the permanent records of the facility and two copies to the appropriate Regional Office of the FAA. The owner shall revise the form after any major repair, modernization, or retuning, to reflect an accurate record of facility operation and adjustment.
(b)
Facility maintenance log
(
FormFAA 6030-1
). This form is a permanent record of all equipment malfunctioning met in maintaining the facility, including information on the kind of
work and adjustments made, equipment failures, causes (if determined), and corrective action taken. The owner shall keep the original of each report at the facility and send a copy to the appropriate Regional Office of the FAA at the end of each month in which it is prepared.
(c)
Radio equipment operation record
(
Form FAA-418
). To contain a complete record of meter readings, recorded on each scheduled visit to the facility. The owner shall keep the original of each month's record at the facility and send a copy of it to the appropriate Regional Office of the FAA.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 171-5, 34 FR 15245, Sept. 30, 1969; Amdt. 171-10, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975]

# Subpart D—True Lights
§ 171.61
Air navigation certificate: Revocation and termination.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each air navigation certificate of “Lawful Authority to Operate a True Light” is hereby revoked, and each application therefor is hereby terminated.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to—
(1) A certificate issued to a Federal-Aid Airport Program sponsor who was required to apply for that certificate under regulations then in effect, and who has not surrendered that certificate under § 151.86(e) of this chapter; or
(2) An application made by a Federal-Aid Airport Program sponsor who was required to make that application under regulations then in effect, and who has not terminated that application under § 151.86(e) of this chapter.
(49 U.S.C. 1101-1120; sec. 307, 72 Stat. 749, 49 U.S.C. 1348)
[Amdt. 171-4, 33 FR 12545, Sept. 5, 1968]

# Subpart E—General
§ 171.71
Materials incorporated by reference.
Copies of standards, recommended practices and documents incorporated by reference in this part are available for the use of interested persons at any FAA Regional Office and FAA Headquarters. An historical file of these materials is maintained at Headquarters, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20590.
[Amdt. 171-8, 36 FR 5584, Mar. 25, 1971]
§ 171.73
Alternative forms of reports.
On a case-by-case basis, a Regional Administrator may accept any report in a format other than the FAA form required by this part if he is satisfied that the report contains all the information required on the FAA form and can be processed by FAA as conveniently as the FAA form.
(49 U.S.C. 1348)
[Amdt. 171-5, 34 FR 15245, Sept. 30, 1969, as amended by Amdt. 171-15, 54 FR 39296, Sept. 25, 1989]
§ 171.75
Submission of requests.
(a) Requests for approval of facilities not having design and operational characteristics identical to those of facilities currently approved under this part, including requests for deviations from this part for such facilities, must be submitted to the Director, Advanced Systems Design Service.
(b) The following requests must be submitted to the Regional Administrator of the region in which the facility is located:
(1) Requests for approval of facilities that have design and operational characteristics identical to those of facilities currently approved under this part, including requests for deviations from this part for such facilities.
(2) Requests for deviations from this part for facilities currently approved under this part.
(3) Requests for modification of facilities currently approved under this part.
[Amdt. 171-7, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-15, 54 FR 39296, Sept. 25, 1989]

# Subpart F—Simplified Directional Facility (SDF)

# Source:
Docket 10116, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970, unless otherwise noted.
§ 171.101
Scope.
This subpart sets forth minimum requirements for the approval and operation of non-Federal Simplified Directional Facilities (SDF) that are to be involved in the approval of instrument flight rules and air traffic control procedures related to those facilities.
§ 171.103
Requests for IFR procedure.
(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on an SDF that he owns must submit the following information with that request:
(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of § 171.109 and the standards and tolerances of § 171.111, and is installed in accordance with § 171.113.
(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.
(3) A proposed maintenance organization and a maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.115.
(4) A statement of intent to meet the requirements of this subpart.
(5) A showing that the facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability as prescribed in § 171.111(k), and an acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this paragraph.
(b) After the Federal Aviation Administration inspects and evaluates the facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the facility or the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the facility for an in-service evaluation by the Federal Aviation Administration.
§ 171.105
Minimum requirements for approval.
(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the Federal Aviation Administration will approve an IFR procedure for a non-Federal Simplified Directional Facility:
(1) A suitable frequency channel must be available.
(2) The facility's performance, as determined by air and ground inspection, must meet the requirements of §§ 171.109 and 171.111.
(3) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.113.
(4) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the facility in accordance with § 171.115.
(5) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports as set forth in § 171.117, and agree to allow the FAA to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.
(6) The owner must assure the FAA that he will not withdraw the facility from service without the permission of the FAA.
(7) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspections made before the facility is commissioned, except that the FAA may bear certain of these costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.
(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the FAA commissions the facility as a prerequisite to its approval for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time the facility does not continue to meet those requirements. In addition, the facility is licensed by the Federal Communications Commission. The Federal Aviation Administration recommends cancellation or nonrenewal of the Federal Communications Commission license whenever the frequency channel is needed for higher priority common system service.
§ 171.107
Definition.
As used in this subpart:
SDF
(simplified directional facility) means a directional aid facility providing only lateral guidance (front or back course) for approach from a final approach fix.
DDM
(difference in depth of modulation) means the percentage modulation depth of the larger signal minus the percentage modulation depth of the smaller signal, divided by 100.
Angular displacement sensitivity
means the ratio of measured DDM to the corresponding angular displacement from the appropriate reference line.
Back course sector
means the course sector on the opposite end of the runway from the front course sector.
Course line
means the locus of points along the final approach course at which the DDM is zero.
Course sector
means a sector in a horizontal plane containing the course line and limited by the loci of points nearest to the course line at which the DDM is 0.155.
Displacement sensitivity
means the ratio of measured DDM to the corresponding lateral displacement from the appropriate reference line.
Front course sector
means the course sector centered on the course line in the direction from the runway in which a normal final approach is made.
Half course sector
means the sector in a horizontal plane containing the course line and limited by the loci of points nearest to the course line, at which the DDM is 0.0775.
Point A
means a point on the front course in the approach direction a distance of 4 nautical miles from the threshold.
Point A1
means a point on the front course in the approach direction a distance of 1 statute mile from the threshold.
Point A2
means a point on the front course at the threshold.
Reference datum
means a point at a specified height located vertically above the intersection of the course and the threshold.
Missed approach point
means the point on the final approach course, not farther from the final approach fix than Point “A2”, at which the approach must be abandoned, if the approach and subsequent landing cannot be safely completed by visual reference, whether or not the aircraft has descended to the minimum descent altitude.
§ 171.109
Performance requirements.
(a) The Simplified Directional Facility must perform in accordance with the following standards and practices:
(1) The radiation from the SDF antenna system must produce a composite field pattern which is amplitude modulated by a 90 Hz and a 150 Hz tone. The radiation field pattern must produce a course sector with the 90 Hz tone predominating on one side of the course and with the 150 Hz tone predominating on the opposite side.
(2) When an observer faces the SDF from the approach end of runway, the depth of modulation of the radio frequency carrier due to the 150 Hz tone must predominate on his right hand and that due to the 90 Hz tone must predominate on his left hand.
(3) All horizontal angles employed in specifying the SDF field patterns must originate from the center of the antenna system which provides the signals used in the front course sector.
(4) The SDF must operate on odd tenths or odd tenths plus a twentieth MHz within the frequency band 108.1 MHz to 111.95 MHz. The frequency tolerance of the radio frequency carrier must not exceed plus or minus 0.002 percent.
(5) The radiated emission from the SDF must be horizontally polarized. The vertically polarized component of the radiation on the course line must not exceed that which corresponds to an error one-twentieth of the course sector width when an aircraft is positioned on the course line and is in a roll attitude of 20° from the horizontal.
(6) The SDF must provide signals sufficient to allow satisfactory operation of a typical aircraft installation within the sector which extends from the center of the SDF antenna system to distances of 18 nautical miles within a plus or minus 10° sector and 10 nautical miles within the remainder of the coverage when alternative navigational facilities provide satisfactory coverage within the intermediate approach area. SDF signals must be receivable at the distances specified at and above a height of 1,000 feet above the elevation of the threshold, or the lowest altitude authorized for transition, whichever is higher. Such signals must be receivable, to the distances specified, up to a surface extending outward from the SDF antenna and inclined at 7° above the horizontal.
(7) The modulation tones must be phase-locked so that within the half course sector, the demodulated 90 Hz and 150 Hz wave forms pass through zero in the same direction within 20° of phase relative to the 150 Hz component, every half cycle of the combined 90 Hz
and 150 Hz wave form. However, the phase need not be measured within the half course sector.
(8) The angle of convergence of the final approach course and the extended runway centerline must not exceed 30°. The final approach course must be aligned to intersect the extended runway centerline between points A1 and the runway threshold. When an operational advantage can be achieved, a final approach course that does not intersect the runway or that intersects it at a distance greater than point A1 from the threshold, may be established, if that course lies within 500 feet laterally of the extended runway centerline at a point 3,000 feet outward from the runway threshold. The mean course line must be maintained within ±10 percent of the course sector width.
(9) The nominal displacement sensitivity within the half course sector must be 50 microamperes/degree. The nominal course sector width must be 6°. When an operational advantage can be achieved, a nominal displacement sensitivity of 25 microamperes/degree may be established, with a nominal course sector width of 12° with proportional displacement sensitivity. The lateral displacement sensitivity must be adjusted and maintained within the limits of plus or minus 17 percent of the nominal value.
(10) The off-course (clearance) signal must increase at a substantially linear rate with respect to the angular displacement from the course line up to an angle on either side of the course line where 175 microamperes of deflection is obtained. From that angle to ±10°, the off-course deflection must not be less than 175 microamperes. From ±10° to ±35° the off-course deflection must not be less than 150 microamperes. With the course adjusted to cause any of several monitor alarm conditions, the aforementioned values of 175 microamperes in the sector 10° each side of course and 150 microamperes in the sector ±10° to ±35° may be reduced to 160 microamperes and 135 microamperes, respectively. These conditions must be met at a distance of 18 nautical miles from the SDF antenna within the sector 10° each side of course line and 10 nautical miles from the SDF antenna within the sector ±10° to ±35° each side of course line.
(11) The SDF may provide a ground-to-air radiotelephone communication channel to be operated simultaneously with the navigation and identification signals, if that operation does not interfere with the basic function. If a channel is provided, it must conform with the following standards:
(i) The channel must be on the same radio frequency carrier or carriers as used for the SDF function, and the radiation must be horizontally polarized. Where two carriers are modulated with speech, the relative phases of the modulations on the two carriers must avoid the occurrence of nulls within the coverage of the SDF.
(ii) On centerline, the peak modulation depth of the carrier or carriers due to the radiotelephone communications must not exceed 50 percent but must be adjusted so that the ratio of peak modulation depth due to the radiotelephone communications to that due to the identification signal is approximately 9:1.
(iii) The audio frequency characteristics of the radiotelephone channel must be flat to within 3 db relative to the level at 1,000 Hz over the range from 300 Hz to 3,000 Hz.
(12)(i) The SDF must provide for the simultaneous transmission of an identification signal, specific to the runway and approach direction, on the same radio frequency carrier or carriers as used for the SDF function. The transmission of the identification signal must not interfere in any way with the basic SDF function.
(ii) The identification signal must be produced by Class A2 modulation of the radio frequency carrier or carriers using a modulation tone of 1020 Hz within ±50 Hz. The depth of modulation must be between the limits of 5 and 15 percent except that, where a radiotelephone communication channel is provided, the depth of modulation must be adjusted so that the ratio of peak modulation depth due to radiotelephone communications to that due to the identification signal modulation is approximately 9:1. The emissions carrying the identification signal must be horizontally polarized.
(iii) The identification signal must employ the International Morse Code and consist of three letters.
(iv) The identification signal must be transmitted at a speed corresponding to approximately seven words per minute, and must be repeated at approximately equal intervals, not less than six times per minute. When SDF transmission is not available for operational use, including periods of removal of navigational components or during maintenance or test transmissions, the identification signal must be suppressed.
(b) It must be shown during ground inspection of the design features of the equipment that there will not be conditions that will allow unsafe operations because of component failure or deterioration.
(c) The monitor must be checked periodically during the in-service test evaluation period for calibration and stability. These tests, and ground checks of SDF radiation characteristics must be conducted in accordance with the maintenance manual required by § 171.115(c) and must meet the standards and tolerances contained in § 171.111(j).
(d) The monitor system must provide a warning to the designated control point(s) when any of the conditions of § 171.111(j) occur, within the time periods specified in that paragraph.
(e) Flight inspection to determine the adequacy of the facility's operational performance and compliance with applicable performance requirements must be conducted in accordance with the “U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual.” Tolerances contained in the U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual, section 217, must be complied with except as stated in paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) Flight inspection tolerances specified in section 217 of the “U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual” must be complied with except as follows:
(1)
Course sector width.
The nominal course sector width must be 6°. When an operational advantage can be achieved, a nominal course sector width of 12° may be established. Course sector width must be adjusted and maintained within the limits of ±17 percent of the nominal value.
(2)
Course alignment.
The mean course line must be adjusted and maintained within the limits of ±10 percent of the nominal course sector width.
(3)
Course structure.
Course deviations due to roughness, scalloping, or bends must be within the following limitations:
(i)
Front course.
(
a
) Course structure from 18 miles from runway threshold to Point A must not exceed ±40 microamperes;
(
b
) Point A to Point A-1—linear decrease from not more than ±40 microamperes at Point A to not more than ±20 microamperes at Point A-1;
(
c
) Point A-1 to Missed Approach Point—not more than ±20 microamperes;
(
d
) Monitor tolerances: width ±17 percent of nominal; alignment—±10 percent of nominal course sector width.
(ii)
Back course.
(
a
) Course structure 18 miles from runway threshold to 4 miles from runway threshold must not exceed ±40 microamperes. Four miles to 1 mile from R/W must not exceed ±40 microamperes decreasing to not more than ±20 microamperes, at a linear rate.
(
b
) Monitor tolerances: width—±17 percent of nominal; alignment—±10 percent of nominal course sector width.
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-9, 38 FR 28557, Oct. 15, 1973]
§ 171.111
Ground standards and tolerances.
Compliance with this section must be shown as a condition to approval and must be maintained during operation of the SDF.
(a)
Frequency.
(1) The SDF must operate on odd tenths or odd tenths plus a twentieth MHz within the frequency band 108.1 MHz to 111.95 MHz. The frequency tolerance of the radio frequency carrier must not exceed plus or minus 0.002 percent.
(2) The modulating tones must be 90 Hz and 150 Hz within ±2.5 percent.
(3) The identification signal must be 1020 Hz within ±50 Hz.
(4) The total harmonic content of the 90 Hz tone must not exceed 10 percent.
(5) The total harmonic content of the 150 Hz tone must not exceed 10 percent.
(b)
Power output.
The normal carrier power output must be of a value which will provide coverage requirements of § 171.109(a)(6) when reduced by 3 dB to the monitor RF power reduction alarm point specified in § 171.111(j)(3).
(c)
VSWR.
(1) The VSWR of carrier and sideband feedlines must be a nominal value of 1/1 and must not exceed 1.2/1.
(2) The sponsor will also provide additional manufacturer's ground standards and tolerances for all VSWR parameters peculiar to the equipment which can effect performance of the facility in meeting the requirements specified in §§ 171.109 and 171.111.
(d)
Insulation resistance.
The insulation resistance of all coaxial feedlines must be greater than 20 megohms.
(e)
Depth of modulation.
(1) The depth of modulation of the radio frequency carrier due to each of the 90 Hz and 150 Hz tones must be 20 percent ±2 percent along the course line.
(2) The depth of modulation of the radio frequency carrier due to the 1020 Hz identification signal must be within 5 percent to 15 percent.
(f)
Course sector width.
The standard course sector width must be 6° or 12°. The course sector must be maintained with ±17 percent of the standard.
(g)
Course alignment.
Course alignment must be as specified in § 171.109(a)(8).
(h)
Back course alignment and width.
If a back course is provided, standards and tolerances for back course sector width and alignment must be the same as course sector width and course alignment specified in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.
(i)
Clearance.
Clearance must be as specified in § 171.109(a)(10).
(j)
Monitor standards and tolerances.
(1) The monitor system must provide a warning to the designated control point(s) when any of the conditions described in this paragraph occur, within the time periods specified in paragraph (j)(6) of this section.
(2) Course shift alarm: The monitor must alarm and cause radiation to cease, or identification and navigation signals must be removed, if the course alignment deviates from standard alignment by 10 percent or more of the standard course sector width.
(3) RF power reduction alarm: The monitor must alarm and cause radiation to cease, or identification and navigation signals must be removed, if the output power is reduced by 3 db or more from normal.
(4) Modulation level alarm: The monitor must alarm and cause radiation to cease, or identification and navigation signals must be removed, if the 90 Hz and 150 Hz modulation levels decrease by 17 percent or more.
(5) Course sector width alarm: The monitor must alarm and cause radiation to cease, or identification and navigation signals must be removed, for a change in course sector width to a value differing by ±17 percent or more from the standard.
(6) Monitor delay before shutdown: Radiation must cease, or identification and navigation signals must be removed, within 10 seconds after a fault is detected by the monitor, and no attempt must be made to resume radiation for a period of at least 20 seconds. If an automatic recycle device is used, not more than three successive recycles may be permitted before a complete SDF shutdown occurs.
(k)
Mean time between failures.
The mean time between failures must not be less than 800 hours. This measure is applied only to equipment failures (monitor or transmitting equipment, including out of tolerance conditions) which result in facility shutdown. It does not relate to the responsiveness of the maintenance organization.
(l)
Course alignment stability.
Drift of the course alignment must not exceed one-half the monitor limit in a 1-week period.
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-9, 38 FR 28558, Oct. 15, 1973]
§ 171.113
Installation requirements.
(a) The facility must be installed according to accepted good engineering practices, applicable electric and safety codes, and FCC requirements.
(b) The SDF facility must have the following basic components:
(1) VHF SDF equipment and associated monitor system;
(2) Remote control, and indicator equipment (remote monitor) when required by the FAA;
(3) A final approach fix; and
(4) Compass locator (COMLO) or marker if suitable fixes and initial approach routes are not available from existing facilities.
(c) The facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power, either from a power distribution system or locally generated. Also, adequate power capacity must be provided for operation of test and working equipment at the SDF. A determination by the Federal Aviation Administration as to whether a facility will be required to have standby power for the SDF and monitor accessories to supplement the primary power will be made for each airport based upon operational minimums and density of air traffic.
(d) A determination by the Federal Aviation Administration as to whether a facility will be required to have dual transmitting equipment with automatic changeover for the SDF will be made for each airport based upon operational minimums and density of air traffic.
(e) There must be a means for determining, from the ground, the performance of the equipment (including antennae), initially and periodically.
(f) The facility must have the following ground-air or landline communication services:
(1) At facilities outside of and not immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be ground-air communications from the airport served by the facility. The utilization of voice on the SDF should be determined by the facility operator on an individual basis.
(2) At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be ground/air communications required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section and reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communications facility.
Compliance with paragraphs (f) (1) and (2) of this section need not be shown at airports where an adjacent Federal Aviation Administration facility can communicate with aircraft on the ground at the airport and during the entire proposed instrument approach procedure. In addition, at low traffic density airports within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, and where extensive delays are not a factor, the requirements of paragraphs (f) (1) and (2) of this section may be reduced to reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communications facility, if an adjacent Federal Aviation Administration facility can communicate with aircraft during the proposed instrument approach procedure down to the airport surface or at least down to the minimum approach altitude.
(g) At those locations where two separate SDF facilities serve opposite ends of a single runway, an interlock must insure that only the facility serving the approach direction in use can radiate, except where no operationally harmful interference results.
(h) At those locations where, in order to alleviate frequency congestion, the SDF facilities serving opposite ends of one runway employ identical frequencies, an interlock must insure that the facility not in operational use cannot radiate.
(i) Provisions for maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.
(j) Where an operational advantage exists, the installation may omit a back course.
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-16, 56 FR 65664, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 171.115
Maintenance and operations requirements.
(a) The owner of the facility shall establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility shall meet at a minimum the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain the facility, including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.
(b) The SDF must be designed and maintained so that the probability of operation within the performance requirements specified is high enough to insure an adequate level of safety. In
the event out-of-tolerance conditions develop, the facility shall be removed from operation, and the designated control point notified.
(c) The owner must prepare, and obtain approval of, and each person operating or maintaining the facility shall comply with, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth procedures for operations, preventive maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:
(1) Physical security of the facility. This includes provisions for designating critical areas relative to the facility and preventing or controlling movements within the facility that may adversely affect SDF operations.
(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.
(3) Federal Communications Commission requirements for operating personnel and maintenance personnel.
(4) Posting of licenses and signs.
(5) Relation between the facility and Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information (if applicable), and instructions for the operation of an air traffic advisory service if the facility is located outside of controlled airspace.
(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.
(7) Detailed and specific maintenance procedures and servicing guides stating the frequency of servicing.
(8) Air-ground communications, if provided, expressly written or incorporating appropriate sections of Federal Aviation Administration manuals by reference.
(9) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by § 171.117.
(10) Monitoring of the facility.
(11) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.
(12) Inspection by U.S. personnel.
(13) Shutdowns for routine maintenance and issue of “Notices to Airmen” for routine or emergency shutdowns, except that private use facilities may omit “Notices to Airmen.”
(14) Commissioning of the facility.
(15) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.
(16) An explanation of the kinds of activities (such as construction or grading) in the vicinity of the facility that may require shutdown or certification of the facility by Federal Aviation Administration flight check.
(17) Procedure for conducting a ground check of SDF course alignment, width and clearance.
(18) The following information concerning the facility:
(i) Facility component locations with respect to airport layout, instrument runway, and similar areas;
(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that will provide the service;
(iii) The station power emission and frequencies of the SDF, markers and associated COMLOs, if any;
(iv) The hours of operation;
(v) Station identification call letters and method of station identification and the time spacing of the identification;
(vi) A description of the critical parts that may not be changed, adjusted, or repaired without a Federal Aviation Administration flight check to confirm published operations.
(d) The owner shall make a ground check of the facility each month in accordance with procedures approved by the Federal Aviation Administration at the time of commissioning, and shall report the results of the checks as provided in § 171.117.
(e) If the owner desires to modify the facility, he shall submit the proposal to the Federal Aviation Administration and may not allow any modifications to be made without specific approval.
(f) The owner's maintenance personnel shall participate in initial inspections made by the Federal Aviation Administration. In the case of subsequent inspections, the owner or his representatives shall participate.
(g) Whenever it is required by the Federal Aviation Administration, the owner shall incorporate improvements in SDF maintenance. In addition, he shall provide a stock of spare parts, of such a quantity, to make possible the
prompt replacement of components that fail or deteriorate in service.
(h) The owner shall provide Federal Aviation Administration approved test instruments needed for maintenance of the facility.
(i) The owner shall close the facility by ceasing radiation and shall issue a “Notice to Airmen” that the facility is out of service (except that private use facilities may omit “Notices to Airmen”), upon receiving two successive pilot reports of its malfunctioning.
§ 171.117
Reports.
The owner of each facility to which this subpart applies shall make the following reports, at the time indicated, to the Federal Aviation Administration Regional Office for the area in which the facility is located:
(a) Record of meter readings and adjustments (Form FAA-198). To be filled out by the owner or his maintenance representative with the equipment adjustments and meter readings as of the time of commissioning, with one copy to be kept in the permanent records of the facility and two copies to the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration. The owner shall revise the form after any major repair, modification, or retuning, to reflect an accurate record of facility operation and adjustment.
(b) Facility maintenance log (FAA Form 6030-1) This form is a permanent record of all equipment malfunctioning met in maintaining the facility, including information on the kind of work and adjustments made, equipment failures, causes (if determined), and corrective action taken. The owner shall keep the original of each report at the facility and send a copy to the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration at the end of each month in which it is prepared.
(c) Radio equipment operation record (Form FAA-418), containing a complete record of meter readings, recorded on each scheduled visit to the facility. The owner shall keep the original of each month's record at the facility and send a copy of it to the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration.
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12711, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-10, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975]

# Subpart G—Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)

# Source:
Docket 10116, 35 FR 12715, Aug. 11, 1970, unless otherwise noted.
§ 171.151
Scope.
This subpart sets forth minimum requirements for the approval and operation of non-Federal DME facilities that are to be involved in the approval of instrument flight rules and air traffic control procedures related to those facilities.
§ 171.153
Requests for IFR procedure.
(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on a DME facility that he owns must submit the following information with that request:
(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of § 171.157 and is installed in accordance with § 171.159.
(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.
(3) A proposed maintenance organization and maintenance manual that meets the requirement of § 171.161.
(4) A statement of intention to meet the requirements of this subpart.
(5) A showing that the facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability and an acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this paragraph.
(b) After the Federal Aviation Administration inspects and evaluates the facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the facility or the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the facility for an in-service evaluation by the Federal Aviation Administration.
§ 171.155
Minimum requirements for approval.
(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the Federal Aviation Administration will approve an IFR procedure for a non-Federal DME:
(1) A suitable frequency channel must be available.
(2) The facility's performance, as determined by air and ground inspection, must meet the requirements of § 171.157.
(3) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.159.
(4) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the facility in accordance with § 171.161.
(5) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports, as set forth in § 171.163, and must agree to allow the Federal Aviation Administration to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.
(6) The owner must assure the Federal Aviation Administration that he will not withdraw the facility from service without the permission of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(7) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspections made before the facility is commissioned, except that the Federal Aviation Administration may bear certain of these costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.
(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Aviation Administration commissions the facility as a prerequisite to its approval for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time the facility does not continue to meet those requirements.
§ 171.157
Performance requirements.
(a) The DME must meet the performance requirements set forth in the “International Standards and Recommended Practices. Aeronautical Telecommunications, Part I, Paragraph 3.5” (Annex 10 to the Convention of International Civil Aviation).
(b) It must be shown during ground inspection of the design features of the equipment that there will not be conditions that will allow unsafe operations because of component failure or deterioration.
(c) The monitor must be checked periodically, during the in-service test evaluation period, for calibration and stability. These tests and ground tests of the functional and performance characteristics of the DME transponder must be conducted in accordance with the maintenance manual required by § 171.161(b).
(d) Flight inspection to determine the adequacy of the facility's operational performance and compliance with applicable “Standards and Recommended Practices” must be accomplished in accordance with the “U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual.”
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12715, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-13, 50 FR 4875, Nov. 27, 1985]
§ 171.159
Installation requirements.
(a) The facility must be installed according to accepted good engineering practices, applicable electric and safety codes, and Federal Communications Commission requirements.
(b) The facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power, either from a power distribution system or locally generated, with a supplemental standby system, if needed.
(c) Dual transmitting equipment with automatic changeover is preferred and may be required to support certain IFR procedures.
(d) There must be a means for determining from the ground, the performance of the equipment, initially and periodically.
(e) A facility intended for use as an instrument approach aid for an airport must have or be supplemented by the following ground air or landline communications services:
(1) At facilities outside of and not immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be ground-air communications from the airport served by the facility. Separate communications channels are acceptable.
(2) At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, there must be the ground-air communications required by paragraph (e)(1)
of this section and reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communications facility. Separate communications channels are acceptable.
Compliance with paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section need not be shown at airports where an adjacent Federal Aviation Administration facility can communicate with aircraft on the ground at the airport and during the entire proposed instrument approach procedure. In addition, at low traffic density airports within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, and where extensive delays are not a factor, the requirements of paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section may be reduced to reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communications facility, if an adjacent Federal Aviation Administration facility can communicate with aircraft during the proposed instrument approach procedure, at least down to the minimum en route altitude for the controlled airspace area.
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12715, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-16, 56 FR 65665, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 171.161
Maintenance and operations requirements.
(a) The owner of the facility shall establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility shall meet at a minimum the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain the facility, including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.
(b) The owner must prepare and obtain Federal Aviation Administration approval of, and each person operating or maintaining the facility shall comply with, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth procedures for operations, preventive maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:
(1) Physical security of the facility.
(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.
(3) Federal Communications Commission's requirements and maintenance personnel.
(4) Posting of licenses and signs.
(5) Relations between the facility and Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information (if applicable), and instructions for the operation of an air traffic advisory service if the DME is located outside of controlled airspace.
(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.
(7) Detailed and specific maintenance procedures and servicing guides stating the frequency of servicing.
(8) Air-ground communications, if provided, expressly written or incorporating appropriate sections of Federal Aviation Administration manuals by reference.
(9) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by § 171.163.
(10) Monitoring of the facility.
(11) Inspections by U.S. personnel.
(12) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.
(13) Shutdowns for routine maintenance and issue of “Notices to Airmen” for routine or emergency shutdowns, except that private use facilities may omit the “Notices to Airmen.”
(14) An explanation of the kinds of activity (such as construction or grading) in the vicinity of the facility that may require shutdown or reapproval of the facility by Federal Aviation Administration flight check.
(15) Commissioning of the facility.
(16) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.
(17) The following information concerning the facility:
(i) Location by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, and its position with respect to airport layouts.
(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that will provide the service.
(iii) The station power emission and frequency.
(iv) The hours of operation.
(v) Station identification call letters and methods of station identification, whether by Morse code or recorded voice announcement, and the time spacing of the identification.
(vi) A description of the critical parts that may not be changed, adjusted, or repaired without an FAA flight check to confirm published operations.
(c) The owner shall make a monthly ground operational check in accordance with procedures approved by the FAA at the time of commissioning, and shall report the results of the checks as provided in § 171.163.
(d) If the owner desires to modify the facility, he shall submit the proposal to the FAA and may not allow any modifications to be made without specific approval.
(e) The owner's maintenance personnel shall participate in initial inspections made by the FAA. In the case of subsequent inspections, the owner or his representative shall participate.
(f) Whenever it is required by the FAA, the owner shall incorporate improvements in DME maintenance.
(g) The owner shall provide a stock of spare parts of such a quantity to make possible the prompt replacement of components that fail or deteriorate in service.
(h) The owner shall provide FAA-approved test instruments needed for maintenance of the facility.
(i) The owner shall shut down the facility (
i.e.
, cease radiation and issue a NOTAM that the facility is out-of-service) upon receiving two successive pilot reports of its malfunctioning.
§ 171.163
Reports.
The owner of each facility to which this subpart applies shall make the following reports on forms furnished by the FAA, at the time indicated, to the FAA Regional office for the area in which the facility is located:
(a) Record of meter readings and adjustments (Form FAA-198). To be filled out by the owner with the equipment adjustments and meter readings as of the time of commissioning, with one copy to be kept in the permanent records of the facility and two copies to the appropriate Regional office of the FAA. The owner shall revise the form after any major repair, modification, or returning, to reflect an accurate record of facility operation and adjustment.
(b) Facility maintenance log (FAA Form 6030-1). This form is a permanent record of all equipment malfunctioning met in maintaining the facility, including information on the kind of work and adjustments made, equipment failures, causes (if determined), and corrective action taken. The owner shall keep the original of each report at the facility and send a copy to the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration at the end of the month in which it is prepared.
(c) Radio equipment operation record (Form FAA-418), containing a complete record of meter readings, recorded on each scheduled visit to the facility. The owner shall keep the original of each month's record at the facility and send a copy of it to the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration.
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12715, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-10, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975]

# Subpart H—VHF Marker Beacons

# Source:
Docket 10116, 35 FR 12716, Aug. 11, 1970, unless otherwise noted.
§ 171.201
Scope.
(a) This subpart sets forth minimum requirements for the approval and operation of non-Federal VHF marker beacon facilities that are to be involved in the approval of instrument flight rules and air traffic control procedures related to those facilities.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 171.203
Requests for IFR procedure.
(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure which will incorporate the use of a VHF marker beacon facility that he owns must submit the following information with that request:
(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of § 171.207 and is installed in accordance with § 171.209.
(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.
(3) A proposed maintenance organization and a maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.211.
(4) A statement of intent to meet the requirement of this subpart.
(5) A showing that the facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability, and an acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience may be shown to comply with this subparagraph.
(b) After the Federal Aviation Administration inspects and evaluates the facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the facility or the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner shall then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the facility for an in-service evaluation by the Federal Aviation Administration.
§ 171.205
Minimum requirements for approval.
(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the Federal Aviation Administration will approve an IFR procedure which incorporates the use of a non-Federal VHF marker beacon facility under this subpart:
(1) The facility's performances, as determined by air and ground inspection, must meet the requirements of § 171.207.
(2) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.209.
(3) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the facility in accordance with § 171.211.
(4) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports, as set forth in § 171.213, and agree to allow the Federal Aviation Administration to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.
(5) The owner must assure the Federal Aviation Administration that he will not withdraw the facility from service without the permission of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(6) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspections made before the facility is commissioned, except that the Federal Aviation Administration may bear certain of these costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.
(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the Federal Aviation Administration commissions the facility as a prerequisite to its approval for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time the facility does not continue to meet those requirements.
§ 171.207
Performance requirements.
(a) VHF Marker Beacons must meet the performance requirements set forth in the “International Standards and Recommended Practices, Aeronautical Telecommunications, Part I, paragraphs 3.1.6 and 3.6.” (Annex 10 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation) except those portions that pertain to identification. Identification of a marker beacon (75 MHz) must be in accordance with “U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual,” § 219.
(b) The facility must perform in accordance with recognized and accepted good electronic engineering practices for the desired service. The facility must be checked periodically during the in-service test evaluation period for calibration and stability. These tests and ground tests of the marker radiation characteristics must be conducted in accordance with the maintenance manual required by § 171.211(b).
(c) It must be shown during ground inspection of the design features of the equipment that there will not be conditions that will allow unsafe operations because of component failure or deterioration.
(d) Flight inspection to determine the adequacy of the facility's operational performance and compliance with applicable “Standards and Recommended Practices” are conducted in accordance with the “U.S. Standard Flight Inspection Manual.” The original test is made by the Federal Aviation Administration and later tests
must be made under arrangements, satisfactory to the Federal Aviation Administration, that are made by the owner.
§ 171.209
Installation requirements.
(a) The facility must be installed according to accepted good engineering practices, applicable electric and safety codes, and Federal Communications Commission requirements.
(b) The facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power.
(c) Dual transmitting equipment may be required, if applicable, to support certain IFR procedures.
(d) At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace and that are intended for use as instrument approach aids for an airport, there must be ground-air communications or reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communication facility. Compliance with this paragraph need not be shown at airports where an adjacent Federal Aviation Administration facility can communicate with aircraft on the ground at the airport and during the entire proposed instrument approach procedure. In addition, at low traffic density airports within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, and where extensive delays are not a factor, the requirements of this paragraph may be reduced to reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communications facility, if an adjacent Federal Aviation Administration facility can communicate with aircraft during the proposed instrument approach procedure, at least down to the minimum en route altitude for the controlled airspace area.
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12716, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-16, 56 FR 65665, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 171.211
Maintenance and operations requirements.
(a) The owner of the facility shall establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility shall meet at a minimum the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain the facility, including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.
(b) The owner must prepare, and obtain approval of, and each person who operates or maintains the facility shall comply with, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth procedures for operations, preventive maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:
(1) Physical security of the facility.
(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons only.
(3) Federal Communications Commission's requirements for operating and maintenance personnel.
(4) Posting of licenses and signs.
(5) Relations between the facility and Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information (if applicable).
(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.
(7) Detailed arrangements for maintenance, flight inspection, and servicing, stating the frequency of servicing.
(8) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by § 171.213.
(9) Monitoring of the facility, at least once each half hour, to assure continuous operation.
(10) Inspections by U.S. personnel.
(11) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.
(12) Shutdowns for routine maintenance and issue of “Notices to Airmen” for routine or emergency shutdowns (private use facilities may omit the “Notice to Airmen”).
(13) Commissioning of the facility.
(14) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.
(15) The following information concerning the facility:
(i) Location by latitude and longitude to the nearest second, and its position with respect to airport layouts.
(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that will provide the service.
(iii) The station power emission and frequency.
(iv) The hours of operation.
(v) Station identification call letters and methods of station identification, whether by Morse Code or recorded voice announcement, and the time spacing of the identification.
(c) If the owner desires to modify the facility, he shall submit the proposal to the Federal Aviation Administration and meet applicable requirements of the Federal Communications Commission, and must not allow any modification to be made without specific approval by the Federal Aviation Administration.
(d) The owner's maintenance personnel shall participate in initial inspections made by the Federal Aviation Administration. In the case of subsequent inspections, the owner or his representative shall participate.
(e) The owner shall provide a stock of spare parts, of such a quantity to make possible the prompt replacement of components that fail or deteriorate in service.
(f) The owner shall shut down the facility by ceasing radiation, and shall issue a “Notice to Airmen” that the facility is out of service (except that private use facilities may omit “Notices to Airmen”) upon receiving two successive pilot reports of its malfunctioning.
§ 171.213
Reports.
The owner of each facility to which this subpart applies shall make the following reports, at the times indicated, to the Federal Aviation Administration Regional Office for the area in which the facility is located:
(a) Record of meter readings and adjustments (Form FAA-198). To be filled out by the owner or his maintenance representative with the equipment adjustments and meter readings as of the time of commissioning, with one copy to be kept in the permanent records of the facility and two copies to the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration. The owner must revise the form after any major repair, modification, or retuning, to reflect an accurate record of facility operation and adjustment.
(b) Facility maintenance log (FAA Form 6030-1). This form is a permanent record of all equipment malfunctioning met in maintaining the facility, including information on the kind of work and adjustments made, equipment failures, causes (if determined), and corrective action taken. The owner shall keep the original of each report at the facility and send a copy to the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration at the end of the month in which it is prepared.
(c) Radio equipment operation record (Form FAA-418), containing a complete record of meter readings, recorded on each scheduled visit to the facility. The owner shall keep the original of each month's record at the facility and send a copy of it to the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration.
[Docket 10116, 35 FR 12716, Aug. 11, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 171-10, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975]

# Subpart I—Interim Standard Microwave Landing System (ISMLS)

# Source:
Docket 14120, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 171.251
Scope.
This subpart sets forth minimum requirements for the approval and operation of non-Federal Interim Standard Microwave Landing System (ISMLS) facilities that are to be involved in the approval of instrument flight rules and air traffic control procedures related to those facilities.
§ 171.253
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Angular displacement sensitivity
(Glide Slope) means the ratio of measured DDM to the corresponding angular displacement from the appropriate reference line.
Collocated ground station
means the type of ground station which transmits
two or more guidance signals simultaneously from a common location.
Course line
means the locus of points nearest to the runway centerline in any horizontal plane at which the DDM is zero.
Course sector (full)
means a sector in a horizontal plane containing the course line and limited by the loci of points nearest to the course line at which the DDM is 0.155.
Course sector (half)
means the sector in a horizontal plane containing the course line and limited by the loci of points nearest to the course line at which DDM is 0.0775.
DDM
means difference in depth of modulation. The percentage modulation depth of the larger signal minus the percentage modulation depth of the smaller signal, divided by 100.
Displacement sensitivity
(Localizer) means the ratio of measured DDM to the corresponding lateral displacement from the appropriate reference line.
Facility Performance Category I—ISMLS
means an ISMLS which provides guidance information from the coverage limit of the ISMLS to the point at which the localizer course line intersects the ISMLS glide path at a height of 200 feet or less above the horizontal plane containing the threshold.
Glide path
means that locus of points in the vertical plane containing the runway center line at which the DDM is zero, which, of all such loci, is the closest to the horizontal plane.
Glide path angle
(θ) means the angle between a straight line which represents the mean of the ISMLS glide path and the horizontal.
Glide path sector (full)
means the sector in the vertical plane containing the ISMLS glide path and limited by the loci of points nearest to the glide path at which the DDM is 0.175. The ISMLS glide path sector is located in the vertical plane containing the runway centerline, and is divided by the radiated glide path in two parts called upper sector and lower sector, referring respectively to the sectors above and below the glide path.
Glide path sector (half)
means the sector in the vertical plane containing the ISMLS glide path and limited by the loci of points nearest to the glide path at which the DDM is 0.0875.
ISMLS Point ‘A’
means an imaginary point on the glide path/localizer course measured along the runway centerline extended, in the approach direction, four nautical miles from the runway threshold.
ISMLS Point ‘B’
means an imaginary point on the glide path/localizer course measured along the runway centerline extended, in the approach direction, 3500 feet from the runway threshold.
ISMLS Point ‘C’
means a point through which the downward extended straight portion of the glide path (at the commissioned angle) passes at a height of 100 feet above the horizontal plane containing the runway threshold.
Interim standard microwave landing system
(ISMLS) means a ground station which transmits azimuth and elevation angle information which, when decoded and processed by the airborne unit, provides signal performance capable of supporting approach minima for V/STOL and CTOL operations and operates with the signal format and tolerances specified in §§ 171.259, 171.261, 171.263, 171.265, and 171.267.
Integrity
means that quality which relates to the trust which can be placed in the correctness of the information supplied by the facility.
Mean corrective time
means the average time required to correct an equipment failure over a given period, after a service man reaches the facility.
Mean time between failures
means the average time between equipment failure over a given period.
Reference datum
means a point at a specified height located vertically above the intersection of the runway centerline and the threshold and through which the downward extended straight portion of the ISMLS glide path passes.
Split type ground station
means the type of ground station in which the electronic components for the azimuth and elevation guidance are contained in separate housings or shelters at different locations, with the azimuth portion of the ground station located at the stop end of the runway, and the elevation guidance near the approach end of the runway.
§ 171.255
Requests for IFR procedures.
(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on an ISMLS facility that he owns must submit the following information with that request:
(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of §§ 171.259, 171.261, 171.263, 171.265, 171.267, and 171.269, and is installed in accordance with § 171.271.
(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.
(3) A proposed maintenance organization and a maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.273.
(4) A statement of intent to meet the requirements of this subpart.
(5) A showing that the ISMLS facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability, maintainability and acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this paragraph.
(b) After the FAA inspects and evaluates the ISMLS facility, it advises the owner of the results and of any required changes in the ISMLS facility or in the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the ISMLS facility for an inservice evaluation by the FAA.
§ 171.257
Minimum requirements for approval.
(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the FAA approves an IFR procedure for a non-Federal ISMLS facility:
(1) The performance of the ISMLS facility, as determined by flight and ground inspection conducted by the FAA, must meet the requirements of §§ 171.259, 171.261, 171.263, 171.265, 171.267, and 171.269.
(2) The installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.271.
(3) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the ISMLS facility in accordance with § 171.273.
(4) The owner must agree to furnish periodic reports as set forth in § 171.275 and agree to allow the FAA to inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.
(5) The owner must assure the FAA that he will not withdraw the ISMLS facility from service without the permission of the FAA.
(6) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspection made before the ISMLS facility is commissioned, except that the FAA may bear certain costs subject to budgetary limitations and policy established by the Administrator.
(b) If the applicant for approval meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the FAA approves the ISMLS facility for use in an IFR procedure. The approval is withdrawn at any time that the ISMLS facility does not continue to meet those requirements. In addition, the ISMLS facility may be de-commissioned whenever the frequency channel is needed for higher priority common system service.
§ 171.259
Performance requirements: General.
(a) The ISMLS consists of the following basic components:
(1) C-Band (5000 MHz-5030 MHz) localizer equipment, associated monitor system, and remote indicator equipment;
(2) C-Band (5220 MHz-5250 MHz) glide path equipment, associated monitor system, and remote indicator equipment;
(3) VHF marker beacons (75 MHz), associated monitor systems, and remote indicator equipment.
(4) An ISMLS airborne receiver or a VHF/UHF ILS receiver modified to be capable of receiving the ISMLS signals. This modification requires the addition of a C-Band antenna, a converter unit, a microwave/ILS mode control, and a VHF/UHF receiver modification kit.
(b) The electronic ground equipments in paragraph (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, must be designed to operate on a nominal 120/240 volt, 60 Hz, 3-wire single phase AC power source.
(c) ISMLS ground equipment must meet the following service conditions:
(1) AC line parameters, DC voltage, elevation, and duty:
120 V nominal value, 102 V to 138 V (±1 V).*
208 V nominal value, 177 V to 239 V (±2 V).*
240 V nominal value, 204 V to 276 V (±0.2 V).*
AC line frequency (60 Hz), 57 Hz to 63 Hz (±0.2 Hz).*
DC voltage (48 V), 44 V to 52 V (±0.5 V).*
*
Note:
Where discrete values of the above frequency or voltages are specified for testing purposes, the tolerances given in parentheses indicated by an asterisk apply to the test instruments used to measure these parameters.
Elevation, 0 to 10,000 ft. above sea level.
Duty, continuous, unattended.
(2) Ambient conditions for localizer and glide path equipment:
Temperature, −10 °C to + 50 °C.
Relative humidity, 5% to 90%.
(3) Ambient conditions for marker beacon facilities and all other equipment installed outdoors (for example, antennae, field detectors, and shelters):
Temperature, −50 °C. to + 70 °C.
Relative humidity, 5% to 100%.
(4) All equipment installed outdoors must operate satisfactorily under the following conditions:
Wind velocity, 0-100 MPH (not including gusts).
Hail stones,
1/2
″ diameter.
Rain, provide coverage through a distance of 5 nautical miles with rain falling at a rate of 50 millimeters per hour, and with rain falling at the rate of 25 millimeters per hour for the additional design performance range of the system.
Ice loading, encased in
1/2
″ radial thickness of clear ice.
(d) The ISMLS must perform in accordance with the following standards and practices for Facility Performance Category I operation:
(1) The ISMLS must be constructed and adjusted so that, at a specified distance from the threshold, similar instrumental indications in the aircraft represent similar displacements from the course line or ISMLS glide path, as appropriate, regardless of the particular ground installation in use.
(2) The localizer and glide path components listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section which form part of an ISMLS, must comply at least with the standard performance requirements specified herein. The marker beacon components listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section which form part of an ISMLS, must comply at least with the standard performance requirements specified in subpart H of this part.
(3) The ISMLS must be so designed and maintained that the probability of operation is within the performance requirements specified in § 171.273(k).
(e) The signal format and pairing of the runway localizer and glide path transmitter frequencies of an ISMLS must be in accordance with the frequency plan approved by the FAA, and must meet the following signal format requirements:
(1) The localizer and glide slope stations must transmit angular guidance information on a C-band microwave carrier on narrow, scanned antenna beams that are encoded to produce a modulation in space which, after averaging over several beam scans, is equivalent to the modulation used for conventional ILS as specified in subpart C of this part, except that the frequency tolerance may not exceed ±0.0001 percent.
(2) Guidance modulation must be impressed on the microwave carrier of the radiated signal in the form of a summation of 90 Hz and 150 Hz sinusoidal modulation corresponding to the pointing direction of the particular beam which radiates the signal.
(3) Each of the effective beam positions must be illuminated in a particular sequence for a short time interval. The modulation impressed on each beam must be a sample of the combined 90 Hz and 150 Hz waveform appropriate for that particular beam direction and time slot, and must be accomplished by appropriately varying the length of time the carrier is radiated during each beam illumination interval.
(4) For those cases where the scanning beam fills the coverage space in steps, the incremental step must not exceed 0.6 times the beam width where the beam is in the proportional guidance sector. In the clearance region, the step may not exceed 0.8 times the beam width.
(5) At least one pulse duration modulation (pdm) sample pulse per beam width of scan must be provided.
(6) The minimum pulse duration must be 40 microseconds.
(7) The minimum beam scan cycle must be 600 Hz.
(8) The minimum duty ratio detectable by a receiver located anywhere in the coverage areas defined by this specification may not be less than 0.1. Detected duty ratio means the ratio of the average energy per scan detected at a point in space to the average energy per scan transmitted in all directions through the transmitting antenna.
(9) The localizer must produce a C-band unmodulated reference frequency signal of sufficient strength to allow satisfactory operation of an aircraft receiver within the specified localizer and glide path coverage sectors. Pairing of this reference frequency with the localizer and glide slope frequencies must be in accordance with a frequency plan approved by the FAA.
§ 171.261
Localizer performance requirements.
This section prescribes the performance requirements for localizer equipment components of the ISMLS.
(a) The localizer antenna system must:
(1) Be located on the extension of the centerline of the runway at the stop end;
(2) Be adjusted so that the course line be on a vertical plane containing the centerline of the runway served;
(3) Have the minimum height necessary to comply with the coverage requirements prescribed in paragraph (j) of this section;
(4) Be located at a distance from the stop end of the runway that is consistent with safe obstruction clearance practices;
(5) Not obscure any light of the approach landing system; and
(6) Be installed on frangible mounts or beyond the 1000′ light bar.
(b) On runways where limited terrain prevents the localizer antennae from being positioned on the runway centerline extended, and the cost of the land fill or a tall tower antenna support is prohibitive, the localizer antenna array may be offset, including a collocated ground station, so that the course intercepts the centerline at a point determined by the amount of the angular offset and the glide path angle. If other than a runway centerline localizer is used, the criteria in subpart C of part 97 of this chapter is applicable.
(c) At locations where two separate ISMLS facilities serve opposite ends of of a single runway, an interlock must ensure that only the facility serving the approach direction being used will radiate.
(d) The radiation from the localizer antenna system must produce a composite field pattern which is pulse duration modulated, the time average equivalent to amplitude modulation by a 90 Hz and 150 Hz tone. The localizer station must transmit angular guidance information over a C-band microwave carrier on narrow, scanned antenna beams that are encoded to produce a modulation in space which, after averaging over several beam scans, is equivalent to the modulation used for conventional ILS as specified in subpart C of this part. The radiation field pattern must produce a course sector with one tone predominating on one side of the course and with the other tone predominating on the opposite side. When an observer faces the localizer from the approach end of the runway, the depth of modulation of the radio frequency carrier due to the 150 Hz tone must predominate on his right hand and that due to the 90 Hz tone must predominate on his left hand.
(e) All horizontal angles employed in specifying the localizer field patterns must originate from the center of the localizer antenna system which provides the signals used in the front course sector.
(f) The ISMLS course sector angle must be adjustable between 3 degrees and 9 degrees. The applicable course sector angle will be established and approved on an individual basis.
(g) The ISMLS localizer must operate in the band 5000 MHz to 5030 MHz. The frequency tolerance may not exceed ±0.0001 percent.
(h) The emission from the localizer must be vertically polarized. The horizontally polarized component of the radiation of the course line may not exceed that which corresponds to a DDM error of 0.016 when an aircraft is positioned on the course line and is in a roll attitude of 20 degrees from the horizontal.
(i) The localizer must provide signals sufficient to allow satisfactory operation of a typical aircraft installation
within the localizer and glide path coverage sectors. The localizer coverage sector must extend from the center of the localizer antenna system to distances of 18 nautical miles minimum within ±10 degrees from the front course line, and 10 nautical miles minimum between ±10 degrees and ±35 degrees from the front course line. The ISMLS localizer signals must be receivable at the distances specified up from a surface extending outward from the localizer antenna and within a sector in the elevation plane from 0.300 to 1.750 of the established glide path angle (θ).
(j) Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, in all parts of the coverage volume specified in paragraph (i) of this section, the peak field strength may not be less than −87 dBW/m
2
, and must permit satisfactory operational usage of ISMLS localizer facilities.
(k) The minimum peak field strength on the ISMLS glide path and within the localizer course sector from a distance of 10 nautical miles to a height of 100 feet (30 meters) above the horizontal plane containing the threshold, may not be less than + 87 dBW/m
2
.
(l) Above 16 degrees, the ISMLS localizer signals must be reduced to as low a value as practicable.
(m) Bends in the course line may not have amplitudes which exceed the following:
Zone
Amplitude (DDM)
(95 pct. probability)
Outer limit of coverage to:
ISMLS point “A”
0.031.
ISMLS point “A” to ISMLS point “B”
0.031 at ISMLS point “A” decreasing at linear rate to 0.015 at ISMLS point “B”.
ISMLS point “B” to ISMLS point “C”
0.015.
(n) The amplitudes referred to in paragraph (m) of this section are the DDMs due to bends as realized on the mean course line, when correctly adjusted.
(o) The radio frequency carrier must meet the following requirements:
(1) The nominal depth of modulation of the radio frequency carrier due to each of the 90 Hz and 150 Hz tones must be 20 percent along the course line.
(2) The depth of modulation of the radio frequency carrier due to each of the 90 Hz and 150 Hz tones must be between 18 and 22 percent.
(3) The frequency tolerance of the 90 Hz and 150 Hz modulated tones must be within ±25 percent.
(4) Total harmonic content of the 90 Hz tone may not exceed 10 percent.
(5) Total harmonic content of the 150 Hz tone may not exceed 10 percent. However, a 300 Hz tone may be transmitted for identification purposes.
(6) At every half cycle of the combined 90 Hz and 150 Hz wave form, the modulation tones must be phase-locked so that within the half course sector, the demodulated 90 Hz and 150 Hz wave forms pass through zero in the same direction within 20 degrees with phase relative to the 150 Hz component. However, the phase need not be measured within the half course sector.
(p) The mean course line must be adjusted and maintained within ±.015DDM from the runway centerline at the ISMLS reference datum.
(q) The nominal displacement sensitivity within the half course sector at the ISMLS reference datum, must be 0.00145 DDM/meter (0.00044DDM/foot). However, where the specified nominal displacement sensitivity cannot be met, the displacement sensitivity must be adjusted as near as possible to that value.
(r) The lateral displacement sensitivity must be adjusted and maintained within 17 percent of the nominal value. Nominal sector width at the ISMLS reference datum is 210 meters (700 feet).
(s) The increase of DDM must be substantially linear with respect to angular displacement from the front course line where DDM is zero, up to angle on either side of the front course line where the DDM is 0.180. From that angle to ±10 degrees, the DDM may not be less than 0.180. From ±10 degrees to ±35 degrees, the DDM may not be less than 0.155.
(t) The localizer must provide for the simultaneous transmission of an identification signal which meets the following:
(1) It must be specific to the runway and approach direction, on the same radio frequency carrier, as used for the localizer function.
(2) Transmission of the identification signal may not interfere in any way with the basic localizer function.
(3) The signal must be produced by pulse duration modulation of the radio frequency carrier resulting in a detected audio tone in the airborne VHF receiver of 1020 Hz ±50Hz.
(4) The depth of modulation must be between the limits of 10 and 12 percent.
(5) The emissions carrying the identification signal must be vertically polarized.
(6) The identification signal must employ the International Morse Code and consist of three letters. It must be preceded by the International Morse Code signal of the letter “M” followed by a short pause where it is necessary to distinguish the ISMLS facility from other navigational facilities in the immediate area. At airports where both an ISMLS and an ILS are in operation, each facility must have a different identification call sign.
(7) The signal must be transmitted at a speed corresponding to approximately seven words per minute, and must be repeated at approximately equal intervals, not less than six times per minute, during which time the localizer is available for operational use. When the localizer is not available for transmission, the identification signal must be suppressed.
§ 171.263
Localizer automatic monitor system.
(a) The ISMLS localizer equipment must provide an automatic monitor system that transmits a warning to designated local and remote control points when any of the following occurs:
(1) A shift of the mean course line of the localizer from the runway centerline equivalent to more than 0.015 DDM at the ISMLS reference datum.
(2) For localizers in which the basic functions are provided by the use of a single-frequency system, a reduction of power output to less than 50 percent of normal or a loss of ground station identification transmissions.
(3) Changes of displacement sensitivity to a value differing by more than 17 percent from nominal value for the localizer.
(4) Failure of any part of the monitor itself. Such failure must automatically produce the same results as the malfunctioning of the element being monitored.
(b) Within 10 seconds of the occurrence of any of the conditions prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, including periods of zero radiation, localizer signal radiation must cease or the navigation and identification components must be removed.
§ 171.265
Glide path performance requirements.
This section prescribes the performance requirements for glide path equipment components of the ISMLS. These requirements are based on the assumption that the aircraft is heading directly toward the facility.
(a) The glide slope antenna system must be located near the approach end of the runway, and the equipment must be adjusted so that the vertical path line will be in a sloping horizontal plane containing the centerline of the runway being served, and satisfy the coverage requirements prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section. For the purpose of obstacle clearance, location of the glide slope antenna system must be in accordance with the criteria specified in subpart C of part 97 of this chapter.
(b) The radiation from the glide path antenna system must produce a composite field pattern which is pulse duration modulated by a 90 Hz and a 150 Hz tone, which is the time average equivalent to amplitude modulation. The pattern must be arranged to provide a straight line descent path in the vertical plane containing the centerline of the runway, with the 150 Hz tone predominating below the path and the 90 Hz tone predominating above the path to at least an angle equal to 1.752θ. As used in this section theta (θ), denotes the nominal glide path angle. The glide path angle must be adjusted and maintained within 0.075θ.
(c) The glide path equipment must be capable of producing a radiated glide path from 3 to 9 degrees with respect to the horizontal. However, ISMLS glide path angles in excess of 3 degrees may be used to satisfy instrument approach
procedures or to overcome an obstruction clearance problem, only in accordance with the criteria specified in subpart C of part 97 of this chapter.
(d) The downward extended straight portion of the ISMLS glide path must pass through the ISMLS reference datum at a height ensuring safe guidance over obstructions and safe and efficient use of the runway served. The height of the ISMLS reference datum must be in accordance with subpart C of part 97 of this chapter.
(e) The glide path equipment must operate in the band 5220 MHz to 5250 MHz. The frequency tolerance may not exceed ±0.0001 percent.
(f) The emission from the glide path equipment must be vertically polarized.
(g) The glide path equipment must provide signals sufficient to allow satisfactory operation of a typical aircraft installation insectors of 8 degrees on each side of the centerline of the ISMLS glide path, to a distance of at least 10 nautical miles up to 1.75θ and down to 0.45θ above the horizontal or to such lower angle at which 0.22 DDM is realized.
(h) To provide the coverage for glide path performance specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the minimum peak field strength within this coverage sector must be −82 dBW/m
2
. The peak field strength must be provided on the glide path down to a height of 30 meters (100 feet) above the horizontal plane containing the threshold.
(i) Bends in the glide path may not have amplitudes which exceed the following:
Zone
Amplitude (DDM) (95 pct. probability)
Outer limit of coverage to ISMLS point “C.”
0.035.
The amplitude referred to is the DDM due to bends as realized on the mean ISMLS glide path correctly adjusted. In regions of the approach where ISMLS glide path curvature is significant, bend amplitude is calculated from the mean curved path, and not the downward extended straight line.
(j) Guidance modulation must be impressed on the microwave carrier of the radiated glide slope signal in the form of a unique summation of 90 Hz and 150 Hz sinusoidal modulation corresponding to the point direction of the particular beam which radiates the signal. Each of the effective beam positions must be illuminated in sequence for a short time interval. The scan rate must be synchronous with the 90 and 150 Hz tone base. The modulation impressed on each beam must be a sample of the combined 90 Hz and 150 Hz waveform appropriate for that particular beam direction and time slot. The actual modulation must be accomplished by appropriately varying the length of time the carrier is radiated during each beam illumination interval.
(k) The nominal depth of modulation of the radio frequency carrier due to each of the 90 Hz and 150 Hz tones must be 40 percent along the ISMLS glide path. The depth of modulation may not deviate outside the limits of 37.5 percent to 42.5 percent.
(l) The following tolerances apply to the frequencies of the modulating tones:
(1) The modulating tones must be 90 Hz and 150 Hz within 2.5 percent.
(2) The total harmonic content of the 90 Hz tone may not exceed 10 percent.
(3) The total harmonic content of the 150 Hz tone may not exceed 10 percent.
(m) At every half cycle of the combined 90 Hz and 150 Hz wave form, the modulation must be phase-locked so that, within the ISMLS half glide path sector, the demodulated 90 Hz and 150 Hz wave forms pass through zero in the same direction within 20 degrees of phase relative to the 150 Hz component. However, the phase need not be measured within the ISMLS half glide path sector.
(n) The nominal angular displacement sensitivity must correspond to a DDM of 0.0875 at an angular displacement above and below the glide path of 0.12θ. The glide path angular displacement sensitivity must be adjusted and maintained within ±25 percent of the nominal value selected. The upper and lower sectors must be as symmetrical as practicable within the limits prescribed in this paragraph.
(o) The DDM below the ISMLS glide path must increase smoothly for decreasing angle until a value of 0.22 DDM is reached. This value must be
achieved at an angle not less than 0.30θ above the horizontal. However, if it is achieved at an angle above 0.45θ, the DDM value may not be less than 0.22 at least down to an angle of 0.45θ.
[Docket 14120, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975; 40 FR 41093, Sept. 5, 1975; 40 FR 43719, Sept. 23, 1975]
§ 171.267
Glide path automatic monitor system.
(a) The ISMLS glide path equipment must provide an automatic monitor system that transmits a warning to designated local and remote control points when any of the following occurs:
(1) A shift of the mean ISMLS glide path angle equivalent to more than 0.075θ.
(2) For glide paths in which the basic functions are provided by the use of a single frequency system, a reduction of power output to less than 50 percent.
(3) A change of the angle between the glide path and the line below the glide path (150 Hz predominating), at which a DDM of 0.0875 is realized by more than ±0.0375θ.
(4) Lowering of the line beneath the ISMLS glide path at which a DDM of 0.0875 is realized to less than 0.75θ from the horizontal.
(5) Failure of any part of the monitor itself. Such failure must automatically produce the same results as the malfunctioning of the element being monitored.
(b) At glide path facilities where the selected nominal angular displacement sensitivity corresponds to an angle below the ISMLS glide path, which is close to or at the maximum limits specified, an adjustment to the monitor operating limits may be made to protect against sector deviations below 0.75θ from the horizontal.
(c) Within 10 seconds of the occurrence of any of the conditions prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, including periods of zero radiation, glide path signal radiation must cease.
§ 171.269
Marker beacon performance requirements.
ISMLS marker beacon equipment must meet the performance requirements prescribed in subpart H of this part.
§ 171.271
Installation requirements.
(a) The ISMLS facility must be permanent in nature, located, constructed, and installed according to accepted good engineering practices, applicable electric and safety codes, FCC licensing requirements, and paragraphs (a) and (c) of § 171.261.
(b) The ISMLS facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power, either from a power distribution system or locally generated. Adequate power capacity must be provided for the operation of test and working equipment of the ISMLS.
(c) The ISMLS facility must have a continuously engaged or floating battery power source for the ground station for continued normal operation if the primary power fails. A trickle charge must be supplied to recharge the batteries during the period of available primary power. Upon loss and subsequent restoration of power, the batteries must be restored to full charge within 24 hours. When primary power is applied, the state of the battery charge may not affect the operation of the ISMLS ground station. The battery must permit continuation of normal operation for at least two hours under the normal operating conditions. The equipment must meet all specification requirements with or without batteries installed.
(d) There must be a means for determining, from the ground, the performance of the equipment including antennae, both initially and periodically.
(e) The facility must have, or be supplemented by, ground-air or landline communications services. At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace and that are intended for use as instrument approach aids for an airport, there must be ground-air communications or reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communication facility. Compliance with this paragraph need not be shown at airports where an adjacent Federal Aviation Administration facility can communicate with aircraft on the ground at the airport and during the entire proposed instrument approach procedure. In addition, at low traffic density airports within
or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, and where extensive delays are not a factor, the requirements of this paragraph may be reduced to reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest Federal Aviation Administration air traffic control or communications facility, if an adjacent Federal Aviation Administration facility can communicate with aircraft during the proposed instrument approach procedure, at least down to the minimum en route altitude for the controlled area.
(f) Except where no operationally harmful interference will result, at locations where two separate ISMLS facilities serve opposite ends of a single runway, an interlock must ensure that only the facility serving the approach direction in use can radiate.
[Docket 14120, 40 FR 36110, Aug. 19, 1975, as amended by Amdt. 171-16, 56 FR 65665, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 171.273
Maintenance and operations requirements.
(a) The owner of the facility must establish an adequate maintenance system and provide qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility must meet at least the Federal Communications Commission's licensing requirements and show that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain the facility, including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.
(b) In the event of out-of-tolerance conditions or malfunctions, as evidenced by receiving two successive pilot reports, the owner must close the facility be ceasing radiation, and issue a “Notice to Airman” (NOTAM) that the facility is out of service.
(c) The owner must prepare, and obtain approval of, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth mandatory procedures for operations, periodic maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:
(1) Physical security of the facility.
(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons.
(3) FCC licensing requirements for operations and maintenance personnel.
(4) Posting of licenses and signs.
(5) Relation between the facility and FAA air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information, if applicable, and instructions for the operation of an air traffic advisory service if the facility is located outside of controlled airspace.
(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.
(7) Detailed and specific maintenance procedures and servicing guides stating the frequency of servicing.
(8) Air-ground communications, if provided, expressly written or incorporating appropriate sections of FAA manuals by reference.
(9) Keeping of station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by § 171.275.
(10) Monitoring of the ISMLS facility.
(11) Inspections by United States personnel.
(12) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.
(13) Shutdowns for periodic maintenance and issue of “Notices to Airmen” for routine or emergency shutdowns.
(14) Commissioning of the ISMLS facility.
(15) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.
(16) An explanation of the kinds of activities (such as construction or grading) in the vicinity of the ISMLS facility that may require shutdown or recertification of the ISMLS facility by FAA flight check.
(17) Procedures for conducting a ground check of the localizer course alignment, width, and clearance, glide path elevation angle and course width, and marker beacon power, and modulation.
(18) The following information concerning the ISMLS facility:
(i) Facility component locations with respect to airport layout, instrument runways, and similar areas.
(ii) The type, make, and model of the basic radio equipment that provides the service.
(iii) The station power emission and frequencies of the ISMLS localizer, glide path, beacon markers, and associated compass locators, if any.
(iv) The hours of operation.
(v) Station identification call letters and method of station identification and the time spacing of the identification.
(vi) A description of the critical parts that may not be changed, adjusted, or repaired without an FAA flight check to confirm published operations.
(d) The owner or his maintenance representative must make a ground check of the ISMLS facility periodically in accordance with procedures approved by the FAA at the time of commissioning, and must report the results of the checks as provided in § 171.275.
(e) Modifications to an ISMLS facility may be made only after approval by the FAA of the proposed modification submitted by the owner.
(f) The owner or the owner's maintenance representative must participate in inspections made by the FAA.
(g) Whenever it is required by the FAA, the owner must incorporate improvements in ISMLS maintenance.
(h) The owner or his maintenance representative must provide a sufficient stock of spare parts, including solid state components, or modules to make possible the prompt replacement of components or modules that fail or deteriorate in service.
(i) FAA approved test instruments must be used for maintenance of the ISMLS facility.
(j) The mean corrective maintenance time of the ISMLS equipment may not exceed 0.5 hours, with a maximum corrective maintenance time of not greater than 1.5 hours. This measure applies to failures of the monitor, transmitter and associated antenna assemblies, limited to unscheduled outage and out-of-tolerance conditions.
(k) The mean time between failures of the ISMLS equipment may not be less than 1,500 hours. This measure applies to unscheduled outages, out-of-tolerance conditions, and failures of the monitor, transmitter, and associated antenna assemblies.
(l) Inspection consists of an examination of the ISMLS equipment to ensure that unsafe operating conditions do not exist.
(m) Monitoring of the ISMLS radiated signal must ensure a high degree of integrity and minimize the requirements for ground and flight inspection. The monitor must be checked periodically during the in-service test evaluation period for calibration and stability. These tests and ground checks of glide slope, localizer, and marker beacon radiation characteristics must be conducted in accordance with the maintenance requirements of this section.
§ 171.275
Reports.
The owner of the ISMLS facility or his maintenance representative must make the following reports at the indicated time to the appropriate FAA Regional Office where the facility is located.
(a)
Facility Equipment Performance and Adjustment Data
(
FAA Form 198
). The FAA Form 198 shall be filled out by the owner or his maintenance representative with the equipment adjustments and meter readings as of the time of facility commissioning. One copy must be kept in the permanent records of the facility and two copies must be sent to the appropriate FAA Regional Office. The owner or his maintenance representative must revise the FAA Form 198 data after any major repair, modernization, or retuning to reflect an accurate record of facility operation and adjustment. In the event the data are revised, the owner or his maintenance representative shall notify the appropriate FAA Regional Office of such revisions, and forward copies of the revisions to the appropriate FAA Regional Office.
(b)
Facility Maintenance Log
(
FAA Form 6030
-
1
). FAA Form 6030-1 is a permanent record of all the activities required to maintain the ISMLS facility. The entries must include all malfunctions met in maintaining the facility including information on the kind of work and adjustments made, equipment failures, causes (if determined) and corrective action taken. In addition, the entries must include completion of periodic maintenance required to maintain the facility. The owner or his maintenance representative must
keep the original of each form at the facility and send a copy to the appropriate FAA Regional Office at the end of each month in which it is prepared. However, where an FAA approved remote monitoring system is installed which precludes the need for periodic maintenance visits to the facility, monthly reports from the remote monitoring system control point must be forwarded to the appropriate FAA Regional Office, and a hard copy retained at the control point.
(c)
Technical Performance Record
(
FAA Form 418
). FAA Form 418 contains a record of system parameters, recorded on each scheduled visit to the facility. The owner or his maintenance representative shall keep the original of each month's record at the facility and send a copy of the form to the appropriate FAA Regional Office.

# Subpart J—Microwave Landing System (MLS)

# Source:
Docket 20669, 51 FR 33177, Sept. 18, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 171.301
Scope.
This subpart sets forth minimum requirements for the approval, installation, operation and maintenance of non-Federal Microwave Landing System (MLS) facilities that provide the basis for instrument flight rules (IFR) and air traffic control procedures.
§ 171.303
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Auxiliary data
means data transmitted in addition to basic data that provide ground equipment siting information for use in refining airborne position calculations and other supplementary information.
Basic data
means data transmitted by the ground equipment that are associated directly with the operation of the landing guidance system.
Beam center
means the midpoint between the −3 dB points on the leading and trailing edges of the scanning beam main lobe.
Beamwidth
means the width of the scanning beam main lobe measured at the −3 dB points and defined in angular units on the boresight, in the horizontal plane for the azimuth function and in the vertical plane for the elevation function.
Clearance guidance sector
means the volume of airspace, inside the coverage sector, within which the azimuth guidance information provided is not proportional to the angular displacement of the aircraft, but is a constant fly-left or fly-right indication of the direction relative to the approach course the aircraft should proceed in order to enter the proportional guidance sector.
Control Motion Noise (CMN)
means those fluctuations in the guidance which affect aircraft attitude, control surface motion, column motion, and wheel motion. Control motion noise is evaluated by filtering the flight error record with a band-pass filter which has corner frequencies at 0.3 radian/sec and 10 radians/sec for azimuth data and 0.5 radian/sec and 10 radians/sec for elevation data.
Data rate
means the average number of times per second that transmissions occur for a given function.
Differential Phase Shift Keying (DPSK)
means differential phase modulation of the radio frequency carrier with relative phase states of 0 degree or 180 degrees.
Failure
means the inability of an item to perform within previously specified limits.
Guard time
means an unused period of time provided in the transmitted signal format to allow for equipment tolerances.
Integrity
means that quality which relates to the trust which can be placed in the correctness of the information supplied by the facility.
Mean corrective time
means the average time required to correct an equipment failure over a given period, after a service technician reaches the facility.
Mean course error
means the mean value of the azimuth error along a specified radial of the azimuth function.
Mean glide path error
means the mean value of the elevation error along a specified glidepath of the elevation function.
Mean-time-between-failures (MTBF)
means the average time between equipment failures over a given period.
Microwave Landing System (MLS)
means the MLS selected by ICAO for international standardization.
Minimum glidepath
means the lowest angle of descent along the zero degree azimuth that is consistent with published approach procedures and obstacle clearance criteria.
MLS Approach Reference Datum
is a point at a specified height located vertically above the intersection of the runway centerline and the threshold.
MLS back azimuth reference datum
means a point 15 meters (50 feet) above the runway centerline at the runway midpoint.
MLS datum point
means a point defined by the intersection of the runway centerline with a vertical plane perpendicular to the centerline and passing through the elevation antenna phase center.
Out of coverage indication (OCI)
means a signal radiated into areas outside the intended coverage sector, where required, to specifically prevent invalid removal of an airborne warning indication in the presence of misleading guidance information.
Path Following Error (PFE)
means the guidance perturbations which could cause aircraft displacement from the desired course or glidepath. It is composed of the path following noise and of the mean course error in the case of azimuth functions, or the mean glidepath error in the case of elevation functions. Path following errors are evaluated by filtering the flight error record with a second order low pass filter which has a corner frequency at 0.5 radian/sec for azimuth data or 1.5 radians/sec for elevation data.
Path following noise (PFN)
means that portion of the guidance signal error which could cause displacement from the actual mean course line or mean glidepath as appropriate.
Split-site ground station
means the type of ground station in which the azimuth portion of the ground station is located near the stop end of the runway, and the elevation portion is located near the approach end.
Time division multiplex (TDM)
means that each function is transmitted on the same frequency in time sequence, with a distinct preamble preceding each function transmission.
§ 171.305
Requests for IFR procedure.
(a) Each person who requests an IFR procedure based on an MLS facility which that person owns must submit the following information with that request:
(1) A description of the facility and evidence that the equipment meets the performance requirements of §§ 171.309, 171.311, 171.313, 171.315, 171.317, 171.319, and 171.321 and is fabricated and installed in accordance with § 171.323.
(2) A proposed procedure for operating the facility.
(3) A proposed maintenance organization and a maintenance manual that meets the requirements of § 171.325.
(4) A statement of intent to meet the requirements of this subpart.
(5) A showing that the facility has an acceptable level of operational reliability and an acceptable standard of performance. Previous equivalent operational experience with a facility with identical design and operational characteristics will be considered in showing compliance with this subparagraph.
(b) FAA inspects and evaluates the MLS facility; it advises the owner of the results, and of any required changes in the MLS facility or in the maintenance manual or maintenance organization. The owner must then correct the deficiencies, if any, and operate the MLS facility for an in-service evaluation by the FAA.
§ 171.307
Minimum requirements for approval.
(a) The following are the minimum requirements that must be met before the FAA approves an IFR procedure for a non-Federal MLS facility:
(1) The performance of the MLS facility, as determined by flight and ground inspection conducted by the FAA, must meet the requirements of §§ 171.309, 171.311, 171.313, 171.315, 171.317, 171.319, and 171.321.
(2) The fabrication and installation of the equipment must meet the requirements of § 171.323.
(3) The owner must agree to operate and maintain the MLS facility in accordance with § 171.325.
(4) The owner must agree to furnish operational records as set forth in § 171.327 and agree to allow the FAA to
inspect the facility and its operation whenever necessary.
(5) The owner must assure the FAA that he will not withdraw the MLS facility from service without the permission of the FAA.
(6) The owner must bear all costs of meeting the requirements of this section and of any flight or ground inspection made before the MLS facility is commissioned.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 171.309
General requirements.
The MLS is a precision approach and landing guidance system which provides position information and various ground-to-air data. The position information is provided in a wide coverage sector and is determined by an azimuth angle measurement, an elevation angle measurement and a range (distance) measurement.
(a) An MLS constructed to meet the requirements of this subpart must include:
(1) Approach azimuth equipment, associated monitor, remote control and indicator equipment.
(2) Approach elevation equipment, associated monitor, remote control and indicator equipment.
(3) A means for the encoding and transmission of essential data words, associated monitor, remote control and indicator equipment. Essential data are basic data words 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 and auxiliary data words A1, A2 and A3.
(4) Distance measuring equipment (DME), associated monitor, remote control and indicator equipment.
(5) Remote controls for paragraphs (a) (1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section must include as a minimum on/off and reset capabilities and may be integrated in the same equipment.
(6) At locations where a VHF marker beacon (75 MHz) is already installed, it may be used in lieu of the DME equipment.
(b) In addition to the equipment required in paragraph (a) of this section the MLS may include:
(1) Back azimuth equipment, associated monitor, remote control and indicator equipment. When Back Azimuth is provided, a means for transmission of Basic Data Word 5 and Auxiliary Data Word A4 shall also be provided.
(2) A wider proportional guidance sector which exceeds the minimum specified in §§ 171.313 and 171.317.
(3) Precision DME, associated monitor, remote control and indicator equipment.
(4) VHF marker beacon (75 MHz), associated monitor, remote control and indicator equipment.
(5) The MLS signal format will accommodate additional functions (e.g., flare elevation) which may be included as desired. Remote controls for paragraphs (b) (1), (3) and (4) of this section must include as a minimum on/off and reset capabilities, and may be integrated in the same equipment.
(6) Provisions for the encoding and transmission of additional auxiliary data words, associated monitor, remote control and indicator equipment.
(c) MLS ground equipment must be designed to operate on a nominal 120/240 volt, 60 Hz, 3-wire single phase AC power source and must meet the following service conditions:
(1) AC line parameters, DC voltage, elevation and duty:
120 VAC nominal value—102 V to 138 V (±1 V)*
240 VAC nominal value—204 V to 276 V (±2 V)*
60 Hz AC line frequency—57 Hz to 63 Hz (±0.2 Hz)*
*
Note:
Where discrete values of the above frequency or voltages are specified for testing purposes, the tolerances given in parentheses indicated by an asterisk apply to the test instruments used to measure these parameters.
Elevation—0 to 3000 meters (10,000 feet) above sea level
Duty—Continuous, unattended
(2) Ambient conditions within the shelter for electronic equipment installed in shelters are:
Temperature, −10 °C to + 50 °C
Relative humidity, 5% to 90%
(3) Ambient conditions for electronic equipment and all other equipment installed outdoors (for example, antenna, field detectors, and shelters):
Temperature, −50 °C to + 70 °C
Relative humidity, 5% to 100%
(4) All equipment installed outdoors must operate satisfactorily under the following conditions:
Wind Velocity: The ground equipment shall remain within monitor limits with wind velocities of up to 70 knots from such directions that the velocity component perpendicular to runway centerline does not exceed 35 knots. The ground equipment shall withstand winds up to 100 knots from any direction without damage.
Hail Stones: 1.25 centimeters (
1/2
inch) diameter.
Rain: Provide required coverage with rain falling at a rate of 50 millimeters (2 inches) per hour, through a distance of 9 kilometers (5 nautical miles) and with rain falling at the rate of 25 millimeters (1 inch) per hour for the additional 28 kilometers (15 nautical miles).
Ice Loading: Encased in 1.25 centimeters (
1/2
inch) radial thickness of clear ice.
Antenna Radome De-Icing: Down to −6 °C (20 °F) and wind up to 35 knots.
(d) The transmitter frequencies of an MLS must be in accordance with the frequency plan approved by the FAA.
(e) The DME component listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section must comply with the minimum standard performance requirements specified in subpart G of this part.
(f) The marker beacon components listed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section must comply with the minimum standard performance requirements specified in subpart H of this part.
§ 171.311
Signal format requirements.
The signals radiated by the MLS must conform to the signal format in which angle guidance functions and data functions are transmitted sequentially on the same C-band frequency. Each function is identified by a unique digital code which initializes the airborne receiver for proper processing. The signal format must meet the following minimum requirements:
(a)
Frequency assignment.
The ground components (except DME/Marker Beacon) must operate on a single frequency assignment or channel, using time division multiplexing. These components must be capable of operating on any one of the 200 channels spaced 300 KHz apart with center frequencies from 5031.0 MHz to 5090.7 MHz and with channel numbering as shown in Table 1a. The operating radio frequencies of all ground components must not vary by more than ±10 KHz from the assigned frequency. Any one transmitter frequency must not vary more than ±50 Hz in any one second period. The MLS angle/data and DME equipment must operate on one of the paired channels as shown in Table 1b.
Table
1a
—Frequency Channel Plan
Channel No.
Frequency (MHz)
500
5031.0
501
5031.3
502
5031.6
503
5031.9
504
5032.2
505
5032.5
506
5032.8
507
5033.1
508
5033.4
509
5033.7
510
5034.0
511
5034.3
* * * * *
598
5060.4
599
5060.7
600
5061.0
601
5061.3
* * * * *
698
5090.4
699
5090.7
Table
1b
—Channels
Channel pairing
DME No.
VHF freq. MHz
MLS angle freq. MHz
MLS Ch. No.
DME parameters
Interrogation
Freq. MHz
Pulse codes
DME/N µs
DME/P Mode
IA µs
FA µs
Reply
Freq. MHz
Pulse codes µs
* 1X
1025
12
962
12
** 1Y
1025
36
1088
30
* 2X
1026
12
963
12
** 2Y
1026
36
1089
30
* 3X
1027
12
964
12
** 3Y
1027
36
1090
30
* 4X
1028
12
965
12
** 4Y
1028
36
1091
30
* 5X
1029
12
966
12
** 5Y
1029
36
1092
30
* 6X
1030
12
967
12
** 6Y
1030
36
1093
30
* 7X
1031
12
968
12
** 7Y
1031
36
1094
30
* 8X
1032
12
969
12
** 8Y
1032
36
1095
30
* 9X
1033
12
970
12
** 9Y
1033
36
1096
30
* 10X
1034
12
971
12
** 10Y
1034
36
1097
30
* 11X
1035
12
972
12
** 11Y
1035
36
1098
30
* 12X
1036
12
973
12
** 12Y
1036
36
1099
30
* 13X
1037
12
974
12
** 13Y
1037
36
1100
30
* 14X
1038
12
975
12
** 14Y
1038
36
1101
30
* 15X
1039
12
976
12
** 15Y
1039
36
1102
30
* 16X
1040
12
977
12
** 16Y
1040
36
1103
30
▽17X
108.00
1041
12
978
12
17Y
108.05
5043.0
540
1041
36
36
42
1104
30
17Z
5043.3
541
1041
21
27
1104
15
18X
108.10
5031.0
500
1042
12
12
18
979
12
18W
5031.3
501
1042
24
30
979
24
18Y
108.15
5043.6
542
1042
36
36
42
1105
30
18Z
5043.9
543
1042
21
27
1105
15
19X
108.20
1043
12
980
12
19Y
108.25
5044.2
544
1043
36
36
42
1106
30
19Z
5044.5
545
1043
21
27
1106
15
20X
108.30
5031.6
502
1044
12
12
18
981
12
20W
5031.9
503
1044
24
30
981
24
20Y
108.35
5044.8
546
1044
36
36
42
1107
30
20Z
5045.1
547
1044
21
27
1107
15
21X
108.40
1045
12
982
12
21Y
108.45
5045.4
548
1045
36
36
42
1108
30
21Z
5045.7
549
1045
21
27
1108
15
22X
108.50
5032.2
504
1046
12
12
18
983
12
22W
5032.5
505
1046
24
30
983
24
22Y
108.55
5046.0
550
1046
36
36
42
1109
30
22Z
5046.3
551
1046
21
27
1109
15
23X
108.60
1047
12
984
12
23Y
108.65
5046.6
552
1047
36
36
42
1110
30
23Z
5046.9
553
1047
21
27
1110
15
24X
108.70
5032.8
506
1048
12
12
18
985
12
24W
5033.1
507
1048
24
30
985
24
24Y
108.75
5047.2
554
1048
36
36
42
1111
30
24Z
5047.5
555
1048
21
27
1111
15
25X
108.80
1049
12
986
12
25Y
108.85
5047.8
556
1049
36
36
42
1112
30
25Z
5048.1
557
1049
21
27
1112
15
26X
108.90
5033.4
508
1050
12
12
18
987
12
26W
5033.7
509
1050
24
30
987
24
26Y
108.95
5048.4
558
1050
36
36
42
1113
30
26Z
5048.7
559
1050
21
27
1113
15
27X
109.00
1051
12
988
12
27Y
109.05
5049.0
560
1051
36
36
42
1114
30
27Z
5049.3
561
1051
21
27
1114
15
28X
109.10
5034.0
510
1052
12
12
18
989
12
28W
5034.3
511
1052
24
30
989
24
28Y
109.15
5049.6
562
1052
36
36
42
1115
30
28Z
5049.9
563
1052
21
27
1115
15
29X
109.20
1053
12
990
12
29Y
109.25
5050.2
564
1053
36
36
42
1116
30
29Z
5050.5
565
1043
21
27
1116
15
30X
109.30
5034.6
512
1054
12
12
18
991
12
30W
5034.9
513
1054
24
30
991
24
30Y
109.35
5050.8
566
1054
36
36
42
1117
30
30Z
5051.1
567
1054
21
27
1117
15
31X
109.40
1055
12
992
12
31Y
109.45
5051.4
568
1055
36
36
42
1118
30
31Z
5051.7
569
1055
21
27
1118
15
32X
109.50
5035.2
514
1056
12
12
18
993
12
32W
5035.5
515
1056
24
30
993
24
32Y
109.55
5052.0
570
1056
36
36
42
1119
30
32Z
5052.3
571
1056
21
27
1119
15
33X
109.60
1057
12
994
12
33Y
109.65
5052.6
572
1057
36
36
42
1120
30
33Z
5052.9
573
1057
21
27
1120
15
34X
109.70
5035.8
516
1058
12
12
18
995
12
34W
5036.1
517
1058
24
30
995
24
34Y
109.75
5053.2
574
1058
36
36
42
1121
30
34Z
5053.5
575
1058
21
27
1121
15
35X
109.80
1059
12
996
12
35Y
109.85
5053.8
576
1059
36
36
42
1122
30
35Z
5054.1
577
1059
21
27
1122
15
36X
109.90
5036.4
518
1060
12
12
18
997
12
36W
5036.7
519
1060
24
30
997
24
36Y
109.95
5054.4
578
1060
36
36
42
1123
30
36Z
5054.7
579
1060
21
27
1123
15
37X
110.00
1061
12
998
12
37Y
110.05
5055.0
580
1061
36
36
42
1124
30
37Z
5055.3
581
1061
21
27
1124
15
38X
110.10
5037.0
520
1062
12
12
18
999
12
38W
5037.3
521
1062
24
30
999
24
38Y
110.15
5055.6
582
1062
36
36
42
1125
30
38Z
5055.9
583
1062
21
27
1125
15
39X
110.20
1063
12
1000
12
39Y
110.25
5056.2
584
1063
36
36
42
1126
30
39Z
5056.5
585
1063
21
27
1126
15
40X
110.30
5037.6
522
1064
12
12
18
1001
12
40W
5037.9
523
1064
24
30
1001
24
40Y
110.35
5056.8
586
1064
36
36
42
1127
30
40Z
5057.1
587
1064
21
27
1127
15
41X
110.40
1065
12
1002
12
41Y
110.45
5057.4
588
1065
36
36
42
1128
30
41Z
5057.7
589
1065
21
27
1128
15
42X
110.50
5038.2
524
1066
12
12
18
1003
12
42W
5038.5
525
1066
24
30
1003
24
42Y
110.55
5058.0
590
1066
36
36
42
1129
30
42Z
5058.3
591
1066
21
27
1129
15
43X
110.60
1067
12
1004
12
43Y
110.65
5058.6
592
1067
36
36
42
1130
30
43Z
5058.9
593
1067
21
27
1130
15
44X
110.70
5038.8
526
1068
12
12
18
1005
12
44W
5039.1
527
1068
24
30
1005
24
44Y
110.75
5059.2
594
1068
36
36
42
1131
30
44Z
5059.5
595
1068
21
27
1131
15
45X
110.80
1069
12
1006
12
45Y
110.85
5059.8
596
1069
36
36
42
1132
30
45Z
5060.1
597
1069
21
27
1132
15
46X
110.90
5039.4
528
1070
12
12
18
1007
12
46W
5039.7
529
1070
24
30
1007
24
46Y
110.95
5060.4
598
1070
36
36
42
1133
30
46Z
5060.7
599
1070
21
27
1133
15
47X
111.00
1071
12
1008
12
47Y
111.05
5061.0
600
1071
36
36
42
1134
30
47Z
5061.3
601
1071
21
27
1134
15
48X
111.10
5040.0
530
1072
12
12
18
1009
12
48W
5040.3
531
1072
24
30
1009
24
48Y
111.15
5061.6
602
1072
36
36
42
1135
30
48Z
5061.9
603
1072
21
27
1135
15
49X
111.20
1073
12
1010
12
49Y
111.25
5062.2
604
1073
36
36
42
1136
30
49Z
5062.5
605
1073
21
27
1136
15
50X
111.30
5040.6
532
1074
12
12
18
1011
12
50W
5040.9
533
1074
24
30
1011
24
50Y
111.35
5062.8
606
1074
36
36
42
1137
30
50Z
5063.1
607
1074
21
27
1137
15
51X
111.40
1075
12
1012
12
51Y
111.45
5063.4
608
1075
36
36
42
1138
30
51Z
5063.7
609
1075
21
27
1138
15
52X
111.50
5041.2
534
1076
12
12
18
1013
12
52W
5041.5
535
1076
24
30
1013
24
52Y
111.55
5064.0
610
1076
36
36
42
1139
30
52Z
5064.3
611
1076
21
27
1139
15
53X
111.60
1077
12
1014
12
53Y
111.65
5064.6
612
1077
36
36
42
1140
30
53Z
5064.9
613
1077
21
27
1140
15
54X
111.70
5041.8
536
1078
12
12
18
1015
12
54W
5042.1
537
1078
24
30
1015
24
54Y
111.75
5065.2
614
1078
36
36
42
1141
30
54Z
5065.5
615
1078
21
27
1141
15
55X
111.80
1079
12
1016
12
55Y
111.85
5065.8
616
1079
36
36
42
1142
30
55Z
5066.1
617
1079
21
27
1142
15
56X
111.90
5042.4
538
1080
12
12
18
1017
12
56W
5042.7
539
1080
24
30
1017
24
56Y
111.95
5066.4
618
1080
36
36
42
1143
30
56Z
5066.7
619
1080
21
27
1143
15
57X
112.00
1081
12
1018
12
57Y
112.05
1081
36
1144
30
58X
112.10
1082
12
1019
12
58Y
112.15
1082
36
1145
30
59X
112.20
1083
12
1020
12
59Y
122.25
1083
36
1146
30
** 60X
1084
12
1021
12
** 60Y
1084
36
1147
30
** 61X
1085
12
1022
12
** 61Y
1085
36
1148
30
** 62X
1086
12
1023
12
** 62Y
1086
36
1149
30
** 63X
1037
12
1024
12
** 63Y
1087
36
1150
30
** 64X
1088
12
1151
12
** 64Y
1088
36
1025
30
** 65X
1089
12
1152
12
** 65Y
1089
36
1026
30
** 66X
1090
12
1153
12
** 66Y
1090
36
1027
30
** 67X
1091
12
1154
12
** 67Y
1091
36
1028
30
** 68X
1092
12
1155
12
** 68Y
1092
36
1029
30
** 69X
1093
12
1156
12
** 69Y
1093
36
1030
30
70X
112.30
1094
12
1157
12
** 70Y
112.35
1094
36
1031
30
71X
112.40
1095
12
1158
12
** 71Y
112.45
1095
36
1032
30
72X
112.50
1096
12
1159
12
** 72Y
112.55
1096
36
1033
30
73X
112.60
1097
12
1160
12
** 73Y
112.65
1097
36
1034
30
74X
112.70
1098
12
1161
12
** 74Y
112.75
1098
36
1035
30
75X
112.80
1099
12
1162
12
** 75Y
112.85
1099
36
1036
30
76X
112.90
1100
12
1163
12
** 76Y
112.95
1100
36
1037
30
77X
113.00
1101
12
1164
12
** 77Y
113.05
1101
36
1038
30
78X
113.10
1102
12
1165
12
** 78Y
113.15
1102
36
1039
30
79X
113.20
1103
12
1166
12
** 79Y
113.25
1103
36
1040
30
80X
113.30
1104
12
1167
12
80Y
113.35
5067.0
620
1104
36
36
42
1041
30
80Z
5067.3
621
1104
21
27
1041
15
81X
113.40
1105
12
1168
12
81Y
113.45
5067.6
622
1105
36
36
42
1042
30
81Z
5067.9
623
1005
21
27
1042
15
82X
113.50
1106
12
1169
12
82Y
113.55
5068.2
624
1106
36
36
42
1043
30
82Z
5068.5
625
1106
21
27
1043
15
83X
113.60
1107
12
1170
12
83Y
113.65
5068.8
626
1107
36
36
42
1044
30
83Z
5069.1
627
1107
21
27
1044
15
84X
113.70
1108
12
1171
12
84Y
113.75
5069.4
628
1108
36
36
42
1045
30
84Z
6069.7
629
1108
21
27
1045
15
85X
113.80
1109
12
1172
12
85Y
113.85
5070.0
630
1109
36
36
42
1046
30
85Z
5070.3
631
1109
21
27
1046
15
86X
113.90
1110
12
1173
12
86Y
113.95
5070.6
632
1110
36
36
42
1047
30
86Z
5070.9
633
1110
21
27
1047
15
87X
114.00
1111
12
1174
12
87Y
114.05
5071.2
634
1111
36
36
42
1048
30
87Z
5071.5
635
1111
21
27
1048
15
88X
114.10
1112
12
1175
12
88Y
114.15
5071.8
636
1112
36
36
42
1049
30
88Z
5072.1
637
1112
21
27
1049
15
89X
114.20
1113
12
1176
12
89Y
114.25
5072.4
638
1113
36
36
42
1050
30
89Z
5072.7
639
1113
21
27
1050
15
90X
114.30
1114
12
1177
12
90Y
114.35
5073.0
640
1114
36
36
42
1051
30
90Z
5073.3
641
1114
21
27
1051
15
91X
114.40
1115
12
1178
12
91Y
114.45
5073.6
642
1115
36
36
42
1052
30
91Z
5073.9
643
1115
21
27
1052
15
92X
114.50
1116
12
1179
12
92Y
114.55
5074.2
644
1116
36
36
42
1053
30
92Z
5074.5
645
1116
21
27
1053
15
93X
114.60
1117
12
1180
12
93Y
114.65
5074.8
646
1117
36
36
42
1054
30
93Z
5075.1
647
1117
21
27
1054
15
94X
114.70
1118
12
1181
12
94Y
114.75
5075.4
648
1118
36
36
42
1055
30
94Z
5075.7
649
1118
21
27
1055
15
95X
114.80
1119
12
1182
12
95Y
114.85
5076.0
650
1119
36
36
42
1056
30
95Z
5076.3
651
1119
21
27
1056
15
96X
114.90
1120
12
1183
12
96Y
114.95
5076.6
652
1120
36
36
42
1057
30
96Z
5076.9
653
1120
21
27
1057
15
97X
115.00
1121
12
1184
12
97Y
115.05
5077.2
654
1121
36
36
42
1058
30
97Z
5077.5
655
1121
21
27
1058
15
98X
115.10
1122
12
1185
12
98Y
115.15
5077.8
656
1122
36
36
42
1059
30
98Z
5078.1
657
1122
21
27
1059
15
99X
115.20
1123
12
1186
12
99Y
115.25
5078.4
658
1123
36
36
42
1060
30
99Z
5078.7
659
1123
21
27
1060
15
100X
115.30
1124
12
1187
12
100Y
115.35
5079.0
660
1124
36
36
42
1061
30
100Z
5079.3
661
1124
21
27
1061
15
101X
115.40
1125
12
1188
12
101Y
115.45
5079.6
662
1125
36
36
42
1062
30
101Z
5079.9
663
1125
21
27
1062
15
102X
115.50
1126
12
1189
12
102Y
115.55
5080.2
664
1126
36
36
42
1063
30
102Z
5080.5
665
1126
21
27
1063
15
103X
115.60
1127
12
1190
12
103Y
115.65
5080.B
666
1127
36
36
42
1064
30
103Z
5081.1
667
1127
21
27
1064
19
104X
115.70
1128
12
1191
12
104Y
115.75
5081.4
668
1128
36
36
42
1065
30
104Z
5081.7
669
1128
21
27
1065
19
105X
115.80
1129
12
1192
12
105Y
115.85
5082.0
670
1129
36
36
42
1066
30
105Z
5082.3
671
1129
21
27
1066
15
106X
115.90
1130
12
1193
12
106Y
115.95
5082.6
672
1130
36
36
42
1067
30
106Z
5082.9
673
1130
21
27
1067
15
107X
116.00
1131
12
1194
12
107Y
116.05
5083.2
674
1131
36
36
42
1068
30
107Z
5083.5
675
1131
21
27
1068
15
108X
116.10
508
1132
12
1195
12
108Y
116.15
5083.8
676
1132
36
36
42
1069
30
108Z
5084.1
677
1132
21
27
1069
15
109X
116.20
1133
12
1196
12
109Y
116.25
5084.4
678
1133
36
36
42
1070
30
109Z
5084.7
679
1133
21
27
1070
15
110X
116.30
1134
12
1197
12
110Y
116.35
5085.0
680
1134
36
36
42
1071
30
110Z
5085.3
681
1134
21
27
1071
15
111X
116.40
1135
12
1198
12
111Y
116.45
5086.6
682
1135
36
36
42
1072
30
111Z
5085.9
683
1135
21
27
1072
15
112X
116.50
1136
12
1199
12
112Y
116.55
5086.2
684
1136
36
36
42
1073
30
112Z
5086.5
685
1136
21
27
1073
15
113X
116.60
1137
12
1200
12
113Y
116.65
5086.8
686
1137
36
36
42
1074
30
113Z
5087.1
687
1137
21
27
1074
15
114X
116.70
1138
12
1201
12
114Y
116.75
5087.4
688
1138
36
36
42
1075
30
114Z
5087.7
689
1138
21
27
1075
15
115X
116.80
1139
12
1202
12
115Y
116.85
5088.0
690
1139
36
36
42
1076
30
115Z
5088.3
691
1139
21
27
1076
15
116X
116.90
1140
12
1203
12
116Y
116.95
5088.6
692
1140
36
36
42
1077
30
116Z
5088.9
693
1140
21
27
1077
15
117X
117.00
1141
12
1204
12
117Y
117.05
5089.2
694
1141
36
36
42
1078
30
117Z
5089.5
695
1141
21
27
1078
15
118X
117.10
1142
12
12.5
12
118Y
117.15
5089.8
696
1142
36
36
42
1079
30
118Z
5090.1
697
1142
21
27
1079
12
119X
117.20
1143
12
1206
12
119Y
117.25
5090.4
698
1143
36
36
42
1080
30
119Z
5090.7
699
1143
21
27
1080
15
120X
117.30
1144
12
1207
12
120Y
117.35
1144
36
1081
30
121X
117.40
1145
12
1208
12
121Y
117.45
1145
36
1082
30
122X
117.50
1146
12
1209
12
122Y
117.55
1146
36
1083
30
123X
117.60
1147
12
1210
12
123Y
117.65
1147
36
1084
30
124X
117.70
1148
12
1211
12
** 124Y
117.75
1148
36
1085
30
125X
117.80
1149
12
1212
12
** 125Y
117.85
1149
36
1086
30
126X
117.90
1150
12
1213
12
** 126Y
117.95
1150
36
1087
30
Notes:
* These channels are reserved exclusively for national allotments.
** These channels may be used for national allotment on a secondary basis. The primary reason for reserving these channels is to provide protection for the secondary Surveillance Radar (SSR) system.
▽ 108.0 MHz is not scheduled for assignment to ILS service. The associated DME operating channel No. 17X may be assigned to the emergency service.
(b)
Polarization.
(1) The radio frequency emissions from all ground equipment must be nominally vertically polarized. Any horizontally polarized radio frequency emission component from the ground equipment must not have incorrectly coded angle information such that the limits specified in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section are exceeded.
(2) Rotation of the receiving antenna thirty degrees from the vertically polarized position must not cause the path following error to exceed the allowed error at that location.
(c)
Modulation requirements.
Each function transmitter must be capable of DPSK and continuous wave (CW) modulations of the RF carrier which have the following characteristics.
(1) DPSK. The DPSK signal must have the following characteristics:
bit rate
15.625 KHz
bit length
64 microseconds
logic “0”
no phase transition
logic “1”
phase transition
phase transition
less than 10 microseconds
phase tolerance
±10 degrees
The phase shall advance (or retard) monotonically throughout the transition region. Amplitude modulation during the phase transition period shall not be used.
EC15SE91.005
(2) CW. The CW pulse transmissions and the CW angle transmissions as may be required in the signal format of any function must have characteristics such that the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section are met.
(d)
Radio frequency signal spectrum.
The transmitted signal must be such that during the transmission time, the mean power density above a height of 600 meters (2000 feet) does not exceed −100.5 dBW/m
2
for angle guidance and −95.5 dBW/m
2
for data, as measured in a 150 KHz bandwidth centered at a frequency of 840 KHz or more from the assigned frequency.
(e)
Synchronization.
Synchronization between the azimuth and elevation components is required and, in split-site configurations, would normally be accomplished by landline interconnections. Synchronization monitoring must be provided to preclude function overlap.
(f)
Transmission rates.
Angle guidance and data signals must be transmitted at the following average repetition rates:
Function
Average data rate (Hertz)
Approach Azimuth
13 ±0.5
High Rate Approach Azimuth
1
39 ±1.5
Approach Elevation
39 ±1.5
Back Azimuth
6.5 ±0.25
Basic Data
(
2
)
Auxiliary Data
(
3
)
1
The higher rate is recommended for azimuth scanning antennas with beamwidths greater than two degrees. It should be noted that the time available in the signal format for additional functions is limited when the higher rate is used.
2
Refer to Table 8a.
3
Refer to Table 8c.
(g)
Transmission sequences.
Sequences of angle transmissions which will generate the required repetition rates are shown in Figures 2 and 3.
EC15SE91.006
EC15SE91.007
(h)
TDM cycle.
The time periods between angle transmission sequences must be varied so that exact repetitions do not occur within periods of less than 0.5 second in order to protect against synchronous interference. One such combination of sequences is shown in Figure 4 which forms a full multiplex cycle. Data may be transmitted during suitable open times within or between the sequences.
EC15SE91.008
(i)
Function Formats (General).
Each angle function must contain the following elements: a preamble; sector signals; and a TO and FRO angle scan organized as shown in Figure 5a. Each data function must contain a preamble and a data transmission period organized as shown in Figure 5b.
EC15SE91.009
(1)
Preamble format.
The transmitted angle and date functions must use the preamble format shown in Figure 6. This format consists of a carrier acquisition period of unmodulated CW transmission followed by a receiver synchronization code and a function identification code. The preamble timing must be in accordance with Table 2.
EC15SE91.010
(i)
Digital codes.
The coding used in the preamble for receiver synchronization is a Barker code logic 11101. The time of the last phase transition midpoint in the code shall be the receiver reference time (see Table 2). The function identification codes must be as shown in Table 3. The last two bits (I
11
and I
12
) of the code are parity bits obeying the equations:
I
6
+ I
7
+ I
8
+ I
9
+ I
10
+ I
11
= Even
I
6
+ I
8
+ I
10
+ I
12
= Even
(ii)
Data modulation.
The digital code portions of the preamble must be DPSK modulated in accordance with § 171.311(c)(1) and must be transmitted throughout the function coverage volume.
(2)
Angle function formats.
The timing of the angle transmissions must be in accordance with Tables 4a, 4b, and 5. The actual timing of the TO and FRO scans must be as required to meet the accuracy requirements of §§ 171.313 and 171.317.
(i) Preamble. Must be in accordance with requirements of § 171.311(i)(1).
Table 2—Preamble Timing
1
Event
Event time slot begins at—
15.625 kHz clock pulse (number)
Time (milliseconds)
Carrier acquisition:
(CW transmission)
0
0
Receiver reference time code:
I
1
= 1
13
0.832
I
2
= 1
14
0.896
I
3
= 1
15
0.960
I
4
= 0
16
1.024
I
5
= 1
17
2
1.088
Function identification:
I
6
18
1.152
I
7
19
1.216
I
8
20
1.280
I
9
21
1.344
I
10
(see table 1)
22
1.408
I
11
23
1.472
I
12
24
1.536
END PREAMBLE
25
1.600
1
Applies to all functions transmitted.
2
Reference time for receiver synchronization for all function timing.
Table 3—Function Identification Codes
Function
Code
I
6
I
7
I
8
I
9
I
10
I
11
I
12
Approach azimuth
0
0
1
1
0
0
1
High rate approach azimuth
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
Approach elevation
1
1
0
0
0
0
1
Back azimuth
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
Basic data 1
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
Basic data 2
0
1
1
1
1
0
0
Basic data 3
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
Basic data 4
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
Basic data 5
1
1
0
1
1
0
0
Dasic data 6
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
Auxiliary data A
1
1
1
0
0
1
0
Auxiliary data B
1
0
1
0
1
1
1
Auxiliary data C
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
(ii)
Sector signals.
In all azimuth formats, sector signals must be transmitted to provide Morse Code identification, airborne antenna selection, and system test signals. These signals are not required in the elevation formats. In addition, if the signal from an installed ground component results in a valid indication in an area where no valid guidance should exist, OCI signals must be radiated as provided for in the signal format (see Tables 4a, 4b, and 5). The sector signals are defined as follows:
(A)
Morse Code.
DPSK transmissions that will permit Morse Code facility identification in the aircraft by a four letter code starting with the letter “M” must be included in all azimuth functions. They must be transmitted and repeated at approximately equal intervals, not less than six times per
minute, during which time the ground subsystem is available for operational use. When the transmissions of the ground subsystem are not available, the identification signal must be suppressed. The audible tone in the aircraft is started by setting the Morse Code bit to logic “1” and stopped by a logic “0” (see Tables 4a and 4b). The identification code characteristics must conform to the following: the dot must be between 0.13 and 0.16 second in duration, and the dash between 0.39 and 0.48 second. The duration between dots and/or dashes must be one dot plus or minus 10%. The duration between characters (letters) must not be less than three dots. When back azimuth is provided, the code shall be transmitted by the approach azimuth and back azimuth within plus or minus 0.08 seconds.
(B)
Airborne antenna selection.
A signal for airborne antenna selection shall be transmitted as a “zero” DPSK signal lasting for a six-bit period (see Tables 4a and 4b).
Table
4a
—Approach Azimuth Function timing
Event
Event time slot
begins at—
15.625 kHz clock pulse (number)
Time
(milliseconds)
Preamble
0
0
Morse code
25
1.600
Antenna select
26
1.664
Rear OCI
32
2.048
Left OCI
34
2.176
Right OCI
36
2.304
To test
38
2.432
To scan
1
40
2.560
Pause
8.760
Midscan point
9.060
FRO scan
1
9.360
FRO test
15.560
End Function (Airborne)
15.688
End guard time; end function (ground)
15.900
AA
1
The actual commencement and completion of the TO and the FRO scan transmissions are dependent on the amount of proportional guidance provided. The time slots provided shall accommodate a maximum scan of plus or minus 62.0 degrees. Scan timing shall be compatible with accuracy requirements.
Table
4b
—High Rate Approach Azimuth and Back Azimuth Function Timing
Event
Event time slot
begins at—
15.625 kHz clock pulse (number)
Time
(milliseconds)
Preamble
0
0
Morse Code
25
1.600
Antenna select
26
1.664
Rear OCI
32
2.048
Left OCI
34
2.176
Right OCI
36
2.304
To test
38
2.432
To scan
1
40
2.560
Pause
6.760
Midscan point
7.060
FRO scan
1
7.360
FRO test pulse
11.560
End function (airborne)
11.688
End guard time; end function (ground)
11.900
1
The actual commencement and completion of the TO and the FRO scan transmissions are dependent on the amount of proportional guidance provided. The time slots provided will accommodate a maximum scan of plus or minus 42.0 degrees. Scan timing shall be compatible with accuracy requirements.
(C)
OCI.
Where OCI pulses are used, they must be: (1) greater than any guidance signal in the OCI sector; (2) at least 5 dB less than the level of the scanning beam within the proportional guidance sector; and (3) for azimuth functions with clearance signals, at least 5 dB less than the level of the left (right) clearance pulses within the left (right) clearance sector.
Table 5—Approach Elevation Function Timing
Event
Event time slot
begins at:
15.625 kHz clock pluse (number)
Time
(milliseconds)
Preamble
0
0
Processor pause
25
1.600
OCI
27
1.728
To scan
1
29
1.856
Pause
3.406
Midscan point
3.606
FRO scan
1
3.806
End function (airborne)
5.356
End guard time; end function (ground)
5.600
1
The actual commencement and completion of the TO and FRO scan transmissions are dependent upon the amount of proportional guidance provided. The time slots provided will accommodate a maximum scan of −1.5 degrees to + 29.5 degrees. Scan timing shall be compatible with accuracy requirements.
The duration of each pulse measured at the half amplitude point shall be at least 100 microseconds, and the rise and
fall times shall be less then 10 microseconds. It shall be permissible to sequentially transmit two pulses in each out-of-coverage indication time slot. Where pulse pairs are used, the duration of each pulse shall be at least 50 microseconds, and the rise and fall times shall be less then 10 microseconds. The transmission of out-of-coverage indication pulses radiated from antennas with overlapping coverage patterns shall be separated by at least 10 microseconds.

# Note:
If desired, two pulses may be sequentially transmitted in each OCI time slot. Where pulse pairs are used, the duration of each pulse must be 45 (±5) microseconds and the rise and fall times must be less than 10 microseconds.
(D)
System test.
Time slots are provided in Tables 4a and 4b to allow radiation of TO and FRO test pulses. However, radiation of these pulses is not required since the characteristics of these pulses have not yet been standardized.
(iii)
Angle encoding.
The encoding must be as follows:
(A)
General.
Azimuth and elevation angles are encoded by scanning a narrow beam between the limits of the proportional coverage sector first in one direction (the TO scan) and then in the opposite direction (the FRO scan). Angular information must be encoded by the amount of time separation between the beam centers of the TO and FRO scanning beam pulses. The TO and FRO transmissions must be symmetrically disposed about the midscan point listed in Tables 4a, 4b, 5, and 7. The midscan point and the center of the time interval between the TO and FRO scan transmissions must coincide with a tolerance of ±10 microseconds. Angular coding must be linear with angle and properly decoded using the formula:
EC15SE91.011
where:
θ = Receiver angle in degrees.
V = Scan velocity in degrees per microsecond.
T
0
= Time separation in microseconds between TO and FRO beam centers corresponding to zero degrees.
t = Time separation in microseconds between TO and FRO beam centers.
The timing requirements are listed in Table 6 and illustrated in Figure 7.
EC15SE91.012
(B)
Azimuth angle encoding.
Each guidance angle transmitted must consist of a clockwise TO scan followed by a counterclockwise FRO scan as viewed from above the antenna. For approach azimuth functions, increasing angle values must be in the direction of the TO scan; for the back azimuth function, increasing angle values must be in the direction of the FRO scan. The antenna has a narrow beam in the plane of the scan direction and a broad beam in the orthogonal plane which fills the vertical coverage.
(C)
Elevation angle encoding.
The radiation from elevation equipment must produce a beam which scans from the horizon up to the highest elevation angle and then scans back down to the horizon. The antenna has a narrow beam in the plane of the scan direction and a broad beam in the orthogonal plane which fills the horizontal coverage. Elevation angles are defined from the horizontal plane containing the antenna phase center; positive angles are above the horizontal and zero angle is along the horizontal.
(iv)
Clearance guidance.
The timing of the clearance pulses must be in accordance with Figure 8. For azimuth elements with proportional coverage of less than ±40 degrees (±20 degrees for back azimuth), clearance guidance information must be provided by transmitting pulses in a TO and FRO format adjacent to the stop/start times of the scanning beam signal. The fly-right clearance pulses must represent positive angles and the fly-left clearance pulses must represent negative angles. The duration of each clearance pulse must be 50 microseconds with a tolerance of ±5 microseconds. The transmitter switching time between the clearance pulses and the scanning
beam transmissions must not exceed 10 microseconds. The rise time at the edge of each clearance pulse must be less than 10 microseconds. Within the fly-right clearance guidance section, the fly-right clearance guidance signal shall exceed scanning beam antenna sidelobes and other guidance and OCI signals by at least 5 dB; within the fly-left clearance guidance sector, the fly left clearance guidance signal shall exceed scanning beam antenna sidelobes and all other guidance and OCI signals by at least 5 dB; within the proportional guidance sector, the clearance guidance signals shall be at least 5dB below the proportional guidance signal. Optionally, clearance guidance may be provided by scanning throughout the approach guidance sector. For angles outside the approach azimuth proportional coverage limits as set in Basic Data Word One (Basic Data Word 5 for back azimuth), proper decode and display of clearance guidance must occur to the limits of the guidance region. Where used, clearance pulses shall be transmitted adjacent to the scanning beam signals at the edges of proportional coverage as shown in Figure 8. The proportional coverage boundary shall be established at one beamwidth inside the scan start/stop angles, such that the transition between scanning beam and clearance signals occurs outside the proportional coverage sector. When clearance pulses are provided in conjunction with a narrow beamwidth (e.g., one degree) scanning antenna, the scanning beam antenna shall radiate for 15 microseconds while stationary at the scan start/stop angles.
(3)
Data function format.
Basic data words provide equipment characteristics and certain siting information. Basic data words must be transmitted from an antenna located at the approach azimuth or back azimuth site which provides coverage throughout the appropriate sector. Data function timing must be in accordance with Table 7a.
Table 6—Angle Scan Timing Constants
Function
Max value of
t
(usec)
T
o
(usec)
V(deg/usec)
T
m
(usec)
Pause time (usec)
T
t
(usec)
Approach azimuth
13,000
6,800
0.02
7,972
600
13,128
High rate approach azimuth
9,000
4,800
0.02
5,972
600
9,128
Approach elevation
3,500
3,350
0.02
2,518
400
N/A
Back azimuth
9,000
4,800
−0.02
5,972
600
9,128
Table
7a
—Basic Data Function Timing
Event
Event time slot
begins at:
1
15.625 kHz clock pulse (number)
Time
(milliseconds)
Preamble
0
0
Data transmission (bits I
13
-I
30
)
25
1.600
Parity transmission (bits I
31
-I
32
)
43
2.752
End function (airborne)
45
2.880
End guard time: end function (ground)
3.100
1
The previous event time slot ends at this time.
Table
7b
—Auxiliary Data Function Timing—(Digital)
Event
Event time slot
begins at:
15.625 kHz clock pulse (number)
Time
(milliseconds)
Preamble
0
0
Address transmission (bits I
13
-I
20
)
25
1.600
Data transmission: (bits I
21
-I
69
)
33
2.112
Parity transmission (bits I
70
-I
76
)
82
5.248
End function (airborne)
89
5.696
End guard time; end function (ground)
5.900
Table
7c
—Auxiliary Data Function Timing—(Alphanumeric)
Event
Event time slot
begins at:
15.615 kHz clock pulse (number)
Time
(milliseconds)
Preamble
0
0
Address transmission (bits I
13
-I
20
)
25
1.600
Data transmission: (bits I
21
-I
76
33
2.112
End function (airborne)
89
5.696
End guard time; (end function ground)
5.900
(i)
Preamble.
Must be in accordance with requirements of § 171.311(i)(1).
(ii)
Data transmissions.
Basic data must be transmitted using DPSK modulation. The content and repetition rate of each basic data word must be in accordance with Table 8a. For data containing digital information, binary number 1 must represent the lower range limit with increments in binary steps to the upper range limit shown in Table 8a. Data containing digital information shall be transmitted with the least significant bit first.
(j)
Basic Data word requirements.
Basic Data shall consist of the items specified in Table 8a. Basic Data word contents shall be defined as follows:
(1)
Approach azimuth to threshold distance
shall represent the minimum distance between the Approach Azimuth antenna phase center and the vertical plane perpendicular to the centerline which contains the landing threshold.
(2)
Approach azimuth proportional coverage limit
shall represent the limit of the sector in which proportional approach azimuth guidance is transmitted.
(3)
Clearance signal type
shall represent the type of clearance when used. Pulse clearance is that which is in accordance with § 171.311 (i) (2) (iv). Scanning Beam (SB) clearance indicates that the proportional guidance sector is limited by the proportional coverage limits set in basic data.
EC15SE91.013
Table
8a
—Basic Data Words
Data bit #
Data item definition
LSB value
Data bit value
Basic Data Word No. 1
1
Preamble
N/A
1
2
1
3
1
4
0
5
1
6
0
7
1
8
0
9
1
10
0
11
0
12
0
13
Approach azimuth to threshold distance (Om−630m)
100m
100m
14
200m
15
400m
16
800m
17
1600m
18
3200m
19
Approach azimuth proportional coverage limit (negative limit) (0° to −62°)
2°
−2°
20
−4°
21
−8°
22
−16°
23
−32°
24
Approach azimuth proportional coverage limit (positive limit) (0° to + 62°)
2°
2°
25
4°
26
8°
27
16°
28
32°
29
Clearance signal type
N/A
0 = pulse; 1 = SB
30
Spare
Transmit zero
31
Parity: (13 + 14 + 15. . . + 30 + 31 = odd)
N/A
N/A
32
Parity: (14 + 16 + 18. . . + 30 + 32 = odd)
N/A
N/A
Note 1:
Transmit throughout the Approach Azimuth guidance sector at intervals of 1.0 seconds or less.
Note 2:
The all zero state of the data field represents the lower limit of the absolute value of the coded parameter unless otherwise noted.
Basic Data Word No. 2
1
Preamble
N/A
1
2
1
3
1
4
0
5
1
6
0
7
1
8
1
9
1
10
1
11
0
12
0
13
Minimum glide path (2.0° to 14.7°)
0.1°
0.1°
14
0.2°
15
0.4°
16
0.8°
17
1.6°
18
3.2°
19
6.4°
20
Back azimuth status
see note 4
21
DME status
see note 6
22
23
Approach azimuth status
see note 4
24
Approach azimuth status
see note 4
25
Spare
Transmit zero
26
......do
Do.
27
......do
Do.
28
......do
Do.
29
......do
Do.
30
......do
Do.
31
Parity: (13 + 14 + 15. . . + 30 + 31) = odd)
N/A
N/A
32
Parity: (14 + 16 + 18. . . + 30 + 32 = odd)
N/A
N/A
Note 1:
Transmit throughout the Approach Azimuth guidance sector at intervals of 0.16 seconds or less.
Note 2:
The all zero state of the data field represents the lower limit of the absolute range of the coded parameter unless otherwise noted.
Basic Data Word No. 3
1
Preamble
N/A
1
2
1
3
1
4
0
5
1
6
1
7
0
8
1
9
0
10
0
11
0
12
0
13
Approach azimuth beamwidth (0.5°−4.0°) See note 7
0.5°
0.5°
14
1.0°
15
2.0°
16
Approach elevation beamwidth (0.5° to 2.5°) See note 7
0.5°
0.5°
17
1.0°
18
Note: values greater than 2.5° are invalid
2.0°
19
DME distance (Om to 6387.5m
12.5m
12.5m
20
25.0m
21
50.0m
22
100.0m
23
200.0m
24
400.0m
25
800.0m
26
1600.0m
27
3200.0m
28
Spare
Transmit zero
29
......do
Do.
30
......do
Do.
31
Parity: (13 + 14 + 15. . . + 30 + 31 = odd)
32
Parity: (14 + 16 + 18. . . + 30 + 32 = odd)
N/A
N/A
Note 1:
Transmit throughout the Approach Azimuth guidance sector at intervals of 1.0 seconds or less.
Note 2:
The all zero state of the data field represents the lower limit of the absolute range of the coded parameter unless otherwise noted.
Basic Data Word No. 4
1
Preamble
N/A
1
2
1
3
1
4
0
5
1
6
1
7
0
8
0
9
0
10
1
11
0
12
0
13
Approach azimuth magnetic orientation (0° to 359°)
1°
1°
14
2°
15
4°
16
8°
17
16°
18
32°
19
64°
20
128°
21
256°
22
Back azimuth magnetic orientation (0° to 359°)
1°
1°
23
2°
24
4°
25
8°
26
16°
27
32°
28
64°
29
128°
30
256°
31
Parity: (13 + 14 + 15. . . + 30 + 31 = odd)
N/A
N/A
32
Parity: (14 + 16 + 18. . . + 30 + 32 = odd)
N/A
N/A
Note 1:
Transmit at intervals of 1.0 second or less throughout the Approach Azimuth guidance sector, except when Back Azimuth guidance is provided. See Note 8.
Note 2:
The all zero state of the data field represents the lower limit of the absolute range of the coded parameter unless otherwise noted.
Basic Data Word No. 5
1
Preamble
N/A
1
2
1
3
1
4
0
5
1
6
1
7
1
8
0
9
1
10
1
11
0
12
0
13
Back azimuth proportional coverage negative limit (0° to −42°)
2°
−2°
14
−4°
15
−8°
16
−16°
17
−32°
18
Back azimuth proportional coverage positive limit (0° to + 42°)
2°
2°
19
4°
20
8°
21
16°
22
32°
23
Back azimuth beamwidth (0.5° to 4.0°) See note 7
0.5°
0.5°
24
1.0°
25
2.0°
26
Back azimuth status
See Note 10
27
......do
Do.
28
......do
Do.
29
......do
Do.
30
......do
Do.
31
Parity: (13 + 14 + 15. . . + 30 + 31 = odd)
N/A
N/A
32
Parity: (14 + 16 + 18. . . + 30 + 32 = odd)
N/A
N/A
Note 1:
Transmit only when Back Azimuth guidance is provided. See note 9.
Note 2:
The all zero state of the data filed represents the lower limit of the absolute range of the coded parameter unless otherwise noted.
Basic Data Word No. 6
1
Preamble
N/A
1
2
1
3
1
4
0
5
1
6
0
7
0
8
0
9
1
10
1
11
0
12
1
(13-
30)
MLS ground equipment identification (Note 3)
13
Character 2
N/A
B1
14
B2
15
B3
16
B4
17
B5
18
B6
19
Character 3
N/A
B1
20
B2
21
B3
22
B4
23
B5
24
B6
25
Character 4
N/A
B1
26
B2
27
B3
28
B4
29
B5
30
B6
31
Parity: (13 + 14 + 15. . . + 30 + 31 = odd)
N/A
N/A
32
Parity: (14 + 16 + 18. . . + 30 + 32 = odd)
N/A
N/A
Note 1:
Transmit at intervals of 1.0 second or less throughout the Approach Azimuth guidance sector, except when Back Azimuth guidance is provided. See note 8.
Note 3:
Characters are encoded using the International Alphabet Number 5, (IA-5):
Note 4:
Coding for status bit:
0 = Function not radiated, or radiated in test mode (not reliable for navigation).
1 = Function radiated in normal mode (for Back Azimuth, this also indicates that a Back Azimuth transmission follows).
Note 5:
Date items which are not applicable to a particular ground equipment shall be transmitted as all zeros.
Note 6:
Coding for status bits:
I
21
I
22
0
0
DME transponder inoperative or not available.
1
0
Only IA mode or DME/N available.
0
0
FA mode, Standard 1, available.
1
1
FA mode, Standard 2, available.
Note 7:
The value coded shall be the actual beamwidth (as defined in § 171.311 (j)(9) rounded to the nearest 0.5 degree.
Note 8:
When back Azimuth guidance is provided, Data Words 4 and 6 shall be transmitted at intervals of 1.33 seconds or less throughout the Approach Azimuth coverage and 4 seconds or less throughout the Back Azimuth coverage.
Note 9:
When Back Azimuth guidance is provided, Data Word 5 shall be transmitted at an interval of 1.33 seconds or less throughout the Back Azimuth coverage sector and 4 seconds or less throughout the Approach Azimuth coverage sector.
Note 10:
Coding for status bit:
0 = Function not radiated, or radiated in test mode (not reliable for navigation).
1 = Function radiated in normal mode.
(4)
Minimum glidepath
the lowest angle of descent along the zero degree azimuth that is consistent with published approach procedures and obstacle clearance criteria.
(5)
Back azimuth status
shall represent the operational status of the Back Azimuth equipment.
(6)
DME status
shall represent the operational status of the DME equipment.
(7)
Approach azimuth status
shall represent the operational status of the approach azimuth equipment.
(8)
Approach elevation status
shall represent the operational status of the approach elevation equipment.
(9)
Beamwidth
the width of the scanning beam main lobe measured at the −3 dB points and defined in angular units on the antenna boresight, in the horizontal plane for the azimuth function and in the vertical plane for the elevation function.
(10)
DME distance
shall represent the minimum distance between the DME antenna phase center and the vertical plane perpendicular to the runway centerline which contains the MLS datum point.
(11)
Approach azimuth magnetic orientation
shall represent the angle measured in the horizontal plane clockwise from Magnetic North to the zero-degree angle guidance radial originating from the approach azimuth antenna phase center. The vertex of the measured angle shall be at the approach azimuth antenna phase center.

# Note:
For example, this data item would be encoded 090 for an approach azimuth antenna serving runway 27 (assuming the magnetic heading is 270 degrees) when sited such that the zero degree radial is parallel to centerline.
(12)
Back azimuth magnetic orientation
shall represent the angle measured in the horizontal plane clockwise from Magnetic North to the zero-degree angle guidance radial originating from the Back Azimuth antenna. The vertex of the measured angle shall be at the Back Azimuth antenna phase center.

# Note:
For example, this data item would be encoded 270 for a Back Azimuth Antenna serving runway 27 (assuming the magnetic heading is 270 degrees) when sited such that the zero degree radial is parallel to centerline.
(13)
Back azimuth proportional coverage limit
shall represent the limit of the sector in which proportional back azimuth guidance is transmitted.
(14)
MLS ground equipment identification
shall represent the last three characters of the system identification specified in § 171.311(i)(2). The characters shall be encoded in accordance with International Alphabet No. 5 (IA-5) using bits b
1
through b
6
.

# Note:
Bit b
7
of this code may be reconstructed in the airborne receiver by taking the complement of bit b
6
.
(k)
Residual radiation.
The residual radiation of a transmitter associated with an MLS function during time intervals when it should not be transmitting shall not adversely affect the reception of any other function. The residual radiation of an MLS function at times when another function is radiating shall be at least 70 dB below the level provided when transmitting.
(l)
Symmetrical scanning.
The TO and FRO scan transmissions shall be symmetrically disposed about the mid-scan point listed in Tables 4a, 4b and 5. The mid-scan point and the center of the time interval between the TO and FRO scan shall coincide with a tolerance of plus or minus 10 microseconds.
(m)
Auxiliary data
—(1)
Addresses.
Three function identification codes are reserved to indicate transmission of Auxiliary Data A, Auxiliary Data B,
and Auxiliary Data C. Auxiliary Data A contents are specified below, Auxiliary Data B contents are reserved for future use, and Auxiliary Data C contents are reserved for national use. The address codes of the auxiliary data words shall be as shown in Table 8b.
(2)
Organization and timing.
The organization and timing of digital auxiliary data must be as specified in Table 7b. Data containing digital information must be transmitted with the least significant bit first. Alphanumeric data characters must be encoded in accordance with the 7-unit code character set as defined by the American National Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII). An even parity bit is added to each character. Alphanumeric data must be transmitted in the order in which they are to be read. The serial transmission of a character must be with the lower order bit transmitted first and the parity bit transmitted last. The timing for alphanumeric auxiliary data must be as shown in Table 7c.
(3)
Auxiliary Data A content:
The data items specified in Table 8c are defined as follows:
(i)
Approach azimuth antenna offset
shall represent the minimum distance between the Approach Azimuth antenna phase center and the vertical plane containing the runway centerline.
(ii)
Approach azimuth to MLS datum point distance
shall represent the minimum distance between the Approach Azimuth antenna phase center and the vertical plane perpendicular to the centerline which contains the MLS datum point.
(iii)
Approach azimuth alignment with runway centerline
shall represent the minimum angle between the approach azimuth antenna zero-degree guidance plane and the runway certerline.
(iv)
Approach azimuth antenna coordinate system
shall represent the coordinate system (planar or conical) of the angle data transmitted by the approach azimuth antenna.
(v)
Approach elevation antenna offset
shall represent the minimum distance between the elevation antenna phase center and the vertical plane containing the runway centerline.
(vi)
MLS datum point to threshold distance
shall represent the distance measured along the runway centerline from the MLS datum point to the runway threshold.
(vii)
Approach elevation antenna height
shall represent the height of the elevation antenna phase center relative to the height of the MLS datum point.
(viii)
DME offset
shall represent the minimum distance between the DME antenna phase center and the vertical plane containing the runway centerline.
(ix)
DME to MLS datum point distance
shall represent the minimum distance between the DME antenna phase center and the vertical plane perpendicular to the centerline which contains the MLS datum point.
(x)
Back azimuth antenna offset
shall represent the minimum distance between the back azimuth antenna phase center and the vertical plane containing the runway centerline.
(xi)
Back azimuth to MLS datum point distance
shall represent the minimum distance between the Back Azimuth antenna and the vertical plane perpendicular to the centerline which contains the MLS datum point.
(xii)
Back azimuth antenna alignment with runway centerline
shall represent the minimum angle between the back azimuth antenna zero-degree guidance plane and the runway centerline.
§ 171.313
Azimuth performance requirements.
This section prescribes the performance requirements for the azimuth equipment of the MLS as follows:
(a)
Approach azimuth coverage requirements.
The approach azimuth equipment must provide guidance information in at least the following volume of space (see Figure 9):
Table
8b
—Auxiliary Data Word Address Codes
No.
I
13
I
14
I
15
I
16
I
17
I
18
I
19
I
20
1.
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
2.
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
3.
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
4.
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
1
5.
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
6.
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
1
7.
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
0
8.
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
9.
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
10.
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
11.
0
0
1
0
1
1
1
1
12.
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
13.
0
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
14.
0
0
1
1
1
0
1
1
15.
0
0
1
1
1
1
0
0
16.
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
17.
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
18.
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
19.
0
1
0
0
1
1
1
0
20.
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
21.
0
1
0
1
0
1
1
1
22.
0
1
0
1
1
0
1
0
23.
0
1
0
1
1
1
0
1
24.
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
1
25.
0
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
26.
0
1
1
0
1
0
1
1
27.
0
1
1
0
1
1
0
0
28.
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
0
29.
0
1
1
1
0
1
0
1
30.
0
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
31.
0
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
32.
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
33.
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
34.
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
35.
1
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
36.
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
37.
1
0
0
1
0
1
1
0
38.
1
0
0
1
1
0
1
1
39.
1
0
0
1
1
1
0
0
40.
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
41.
1
0
1
0
0
1
1
1
42.
1
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
43.
1
0
1
0
1
1
0
1
44.
1
0
1
1
0
0
1
1
45.
1
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
46.
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
47.
1
0
1
1
1
1
1
0
48.
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
49.
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
50.
1
1
0
0
1
0
1
1
51.
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
0
52.
1
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
53.
1
1
0
1
0
1
0
1
54.
1
1
0
1
1
0
0
0
55.
1
1
0
1
1
1
1
1
56.
1
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
57.
1
1
1
0
0
1
0
0
58.
1
1
1
0
1
0
0
1
59.
1
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
60.
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
61.
1
1
1
1
0
1
1
1
62.
1
1
1
1
1
0
1
0
63.
1
1
1
1
1
1
0
1
64.
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Note 1:
Parity bits I
19
and I
20
are chosen to satisfy the equations:
I
13
+ I
14
+ I
15
+ I
16
+ I
17
+ I
18
+ I
19
= EVEN
I
14
+ I
16
+ I
18
+ I
20
= EVEN
Table 8c—Auxiliary Data
Word (See note 6)
Data content
Type of data
Maximun time between transmissions (Seconds)
Bits used
Range of values
Least significant bit
A1
Preamble
Digital
1.0
12
Address
8
Approach azimuth antenna offset
10
−511 m to + 511 m (See note 3)
1 m
Approach azimuth to MLS datum point distance
13
0 m to 8 191 m
1 m
Approach azimuth antenna alignment with runway centerline
12
−20.47° to 20.47° (See note 3)
0.01°
Approach azimuth antenna coordinate system
1
(See note 2)
Spare
13
Parity
7
(See note 1)
A2
Preamble
Digital
1.0
12
Address
8
Approach elevation antenna offset
10
−511 m to + 511 m (See note 3)
1 m
MLS datum point to threshold distance
10
0 m to 1 023 m
1 m
Approach elevation antenna height
7
−6.3 m to + 6.3 m (See note 3)
0.1 m
Spare
22
Parity
7
(See note 1)
A3
Preamble
Digital
(See note 4)
12
Address
8
DME offset
10
−511 m to + 511 m
1 m
DME to MLS datum point distance
14
−8 191 m to + 8 191 m (See note 3)
1 m
Spare
25
Parity
7
(See note 1)
A4
Preamble
Digital
(See note 5)
12
Address
8
Back azimuth antenna
10
−511 m to + 511 m (See note 3)
1 m
Back azimuth to MLS datum point distance
11
0 m to 2 047 m
1 m
Back azimuth antenna alignment with runway centerline
12
−20.47° to 20.47° (See note 3)
0.01°
Spare
16
Parity
7
(See note 1)

# Note 1:
Parity bits I
70
to I
76
are chosen to satisfy the equations which follow:
For BIT I
70
:
Even = (I
13
+ ... + I
18
) + I
20
+ I
22
+ I
24
+ I
25
+ I
28
+ I
29
+ I
31
+ I
32
+ I
33
+ I
35
+ I
36
+ I
38
+ I
41
+ I
44
+ I
45
+ I
46
+ I
50
+ (I
52
+ ... + I
55
) + I
58
+ I
60
+ I
64
+ I
65
+ I
70
For BIT I
71
:
Even = (I
14
+ ... + I
19
) + I
21
+ I
23
+ I
25
+ I
26
+ I
29
+ I
30
+ I
32
+ I
33
+ I
34
+ I
36
+ I
37
+ I
39
+ I
42
+ I
45
+ I
46
+ I
47
+ I
51
+ (I
53
+ ... + I
56
) + I
59
+ I
61
+ I
65
+ I
66
+ I
71
For BIT I
72
:
Even = (I
15
+ ... + I
20
) + I
22
+ I
24
+ I
26
+ I
27
+ I
30
+ I
31
+ I
33
+ I
34
+ I
35
+ I
37
+ I
38
+ I
40
+ I
43
+ I
46
+ I
47
+ I
48
+ I
52
+ (I
54
+ ... + I
57
) + I
60
+ I
62
+ I
66
+ I
67
+ I
72
For BIT I
73
:
Even = (I
16
+ ... + I
21
) + I
23
+ I
25
+ I
27
+ I
28
+ I
31
+ I
32
+ I
34
+ I
35
+ I
36
+ I
38
+ I
39
+ I
41
+ I
44
+ I
47
+ I
48
+ I
49
+ I
53
+ (I
55
+ ... + I
58
) + I
61
+ I
63
+ I
67
+ I
68
+ I
73
For BIT I
74
:
Even = (I
17
+ ... + I
22
) + I
24
+ I
26
+ I
28
+ I
29
+ I
32
+ I
33
+ I
35
+ I
36
+ I
37
+ I
39
+ I
40
+ I
42
+ I
45
+ I
48
+ I
49
+ I
50
+ I
54
+ (I
56
+ ... + I
59
) + I
62
+ I
64
+ I
68
+ I
69
+ I
74
For BIT I
75
:
Even = (I
13
+ ... + I
17
) + I
19
+ I
21
+ I
23
+ I
24
+ I
27
+ I
28
+ I
30
+ I
31
+ I
32
+ I
34
+ I
35
+ I
37
+ I
40
+ I
43
+ I
44
+ I
45
+ I
49
+ (I
51
+ ... + I
54
) + I
57
+ I
59
+ I
63
+ I
64
+ I
69
+ I
75
For BIT I
76
:
Even = I
13
+ I
14
+ ... + I
75
+ I
76

# Note 2:
Code for I
56
is: 0 = conical; 1 = planar.

# Note 3:
The convention for the coding of negative numbers is as follows: − MSB is the sign bit; 0 = + ; 1 = −.
—Other bits represent the absolute value.
The convention for the antenna location is as follows: As viewed from the MLS approach reference datum looking toward the datum point, a positive number shall represent a location to the right of the runway centerline (lateral offset) or above the runway (vertical offset), or towards the stop end of the runway (longitudinal distance).
The convention for the antenna alignment is as follows: As viewed from above, a positive number shall represent clockwise rotation from the runway centerline to the respective zero-degree guidance plane.

# Note 4:
Data Word A3 is transmitted at intervals of 1.0 seconds or less throughout the approach Azimuth coverage sector, except when back Azimuth guidance is provided. Where back Azimuth is provided transmit at intervals of 1.33 seconds or less throughout the approach Azimuth sector and 4.0 seconds or less throughout the back Azimuth coverage sector.

# Note 5:
When back Azimuth guidance is provided, transmit at intervals of 1.33 seconds or less throughout the back Azimuth coverage sector and 4.0 seconds or less throughout the approach Azimuth coverage sector.

# Note 6:
The designation “A1” represents the function identification code for “Auxiliary Data A” and address code number 1.
EC15SE91.014
(1) Horizontally within a sector plus or minus 40 degrees about the runway centerline originating at the datum point and extending in the direction of the approach to 20 nautical miles from the runway threshold. The minimum proportional guidance sector must be plus or minus 10 degrees about the runway centerline. Clearance signals must be used to provide the balance of the required coverage, where the proportional sector is less than plus or minus 40 degrees. When intervening obstacles prevent full coverage, the ±40° guidance sector can be reduced as required. For systems providing ±60° lateral guidance
the coverage requirement is reduced to 14 nm beyond ±40°.
(2) Vertically between:
(i) A conical surface originating 2.5 meters (8 feet) above the runway centerline at threshold inclined at 0.9 degree above the horizontal.
(ii) A conical surface originating at the azimuth ground equipment antenna inclined at 15 degrees above the horizontal to a height of 6,000 meters (20,000 feet).
(iii) Where intervening obstacles penetrate the lower surface, coverage need be provided only to the minimum line of sight.
(3) Runway region:
(i) Proportional guidance horizontally within a sector 45 meters (150 feet) each side of the runway centerline beginning at the stop end and extending parallel with the runway centerline in the direction of the approach to join the approach region. This requirement does not apply to offset azimuth installations.
(ii) Vertically between a horizontal surface which is 2.5 meters (8 feet) above the farthest point of runway centerline which is in line of sight of the azimuth antenna, and in a conical surface originating at the azimuth ground equipment antenna inclined at 20 degrees above the horizontal up to a height to 600 meters (2,000 feet). This requirement does not apply to offset azimuth installations.
(4) Within the approach azimuth coverage sector defined in paragraphs (a) (1), and (2) and (3) of this section, the power densities must not be less than those shown in Table 9 but the equipment design must also allow for:
(i) Transmitter power degradation from normal by −1.5 dB;
Table 9—Minimum Power Density Within Coverage Boundaries(dBW/m
2
)
Function
Data signals
Angle signals for various antenna beamwidths
1°
1.5°
2°
3°
Clearance signals
Approach azimuth
−89.5
−88
−85.5
−82
−88
High rate approach azimuth
−89.5
−88
−88
−86.5
−88
Back azimuth
−89.5
−88
−85.5
−82
−88
Approach elevation
−89.5
−88
−88
−88
(ii) Rain loss of −2.2 dB at the longitudinal coverage extremes.
(b)
Siting requirements.
The approach azimuth antenna system must, except as allowed in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Be located on the extension of the centerline of the runway beyond the stop end;
(2) Be adjusted so that the zero degree azimuth plane will be a vertical plane which contains the centerline of the runway served;
(3) Have the minimum height necessary to comply with the coverage requirements prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section;
(4) Be located at a distance from the stop end of the runway that is consistent with safe obstruction clearance practices;
(5) Not obscure any light of an approach lighting system; and
(6) Be installed on frangible mounts or beyond the 300 meter (1,000 feet) light bar.
(c) On runways where limited terrain prevents the azimuth antenna from being positioned on the runway centerline extended, and the cost of the land fill or a tall tower antenna support is prohibitive, the azimuth antenna may be offset.
(d)
Antenna coordinates.
The scanning beams transmitted by the approach azimuth equipment within ±40° of the centerline may be either conical or planar.
(e)
Approach azimuth accuracy.
(1) The system and subsystem errors shall not exceed those listed in Table 10 at the approach reference datum.
At the approach reference datum, temporal sinusoidal noise components shall not exceed 0.025 degree peak in the frequency band 0.01 Hz to 1.6 Hz, and the CMN shall not exceed 0.10 degree. From the approach reference
datum to the coverage limit, the PFE, PFN and CMN limits, expressed in angular terms, shall be allowed to linearly increase as follows:
(i) With distance along the runway centerline extended, by a factor of 1.2 for the PFE and PFN limits and to ±0.10 degree for the CMN limits.
(ii) With azimuth angle, by a factor of 1.5 at the ±40 degree and a factor of 2.0 at the ±60 degree azimuth angles for the PFE, PFN and CMN limits.
(iii) With elevation angle from + 9 degrees to + 15 degrees, by a factor of 1.5 for the PFE and PFN limits.
(iv) Maximum angular limits. The PFE limits shall not exceed ±0.25 degree in any coverage region below an elevation angle of + 9 degrees nor exceed ±0.50 degree in any coverage region above that elevation angle. The CMN limits shall not exceed ±0.10 degree in any coverage region within ±10 degrees of runway centerline extended nor exceed ±0.20 degree in any other region within coverage.

# Note:
It is desirable that the CMN not exceed ±0.10 degree throughout the coverage.
(f) Approach azimuth antenna characteristics are as follows:
(1)
Drift.
Any azimuth angle as encoded by the scanning beam at any point within the proportional coverage must not vary more than ±0.07 degree over the range of service conditions specified in § 171.309(d) without the use of internal environmental controls. Multipath effects are excluded from this requirement.
(2)
Beam pointing errors.
The azimuth angle as encoded by the scanning beam at any point within ±0.5 degree of the zero degree azimuth must not deviate from the true azimuth angle at that point by more than ±.05 degree. Multipath and drift effects are excluded from this requirement.
Table 10—Approach Azimuth Accuracies at the Approach Reference Datum
Error type
System
Angular error (degrees)
Ground subsystem
Airborne subsystem
PFE
±20 ft. (6.1m)
1 2
±0.118°
3
±0.017°
CMN
±10.5 ft. (3.2m)
1 2 4
±0.030°
±0.050°
Notes:
1
Includes errors due to ground and airborne equipment and propagation effects.
2
The system PFN component must not exceed ±3.5 meters (11.5 feet).
3
The mean (bias) error component contributed by the ground equipment should not exceed ±10 feet.
4
The system control motion noise must not exceed 0.1 degree.
5
The airborne subsystem angular errors are provided for information only.
(3)
Antenna alignment.
The antenna must be equipped with suitable optical, electrical or mechanical means or any combination of the three, to bring the zero degree azimuth radial into coincidence with the approach reference datum (for centerline siting) with a maximum error of 0.02 degree. Additionally, the azimuth antenna bias adjustment must be electronically steerable at least to the monitor limits in steps not greater than 0.005 degree.
(4)
Antenna far field patterns in the plane of scan.
On boresight, the azimuth antenna mainlobe pattern must conform to Figure 10, and the beamwidth must be such that, in the installed environment, no significant lateral reflections of the mainlobe exist along the approach course. In any case the beamwidth must not exceed three degrees. Anywhere within coverage the −3 dB width of the antenna mainlobe, while scanning normally, must not be less than 25 microseconds (0.5 degree) or greater than 250 microseconds (5 degrees). The antenna mainlobe may be allowed to broaden from the value at boresight by a factor of 1/cosθ, where θ is the angle off boresight. The sidelobe levels must be as follows:
(i)
Dynamic sidelobe levels.
With the antenna scanning normally, the dynamic sidelobe level that is detected by a receiver at any point within the proportional coverage sector must be down at least 10 dB from the peak of the main beam. Outside the coverage sector, the radiation from the scanning beam antenna must be of such a nature that receiver warning will not be removed or suitable OCI signals must be provided.
(ii)
Effective sidelobe levels.
With the antenna scanning normally, the sidelobe levels in the plane of scan must be such that, in the installed environment, the CMN contributed by sidelobe reflections will not exceed the angular equivalent of 9 feet at approach reference datum over the required range of aircraft approach speeds.
EC15SE91.015
(5)
Antenna far field pattern in the vertical plane.
The azimuth antenna free space radiation pattern below the horizon must have a slope of at least −8 dB/degree at the horizon and all sidelobes below the horizon must be at least 13 dB below the pattern peak. The antenna radiation pattern above the horizon must satisfy both the system coverage requirements and the spurious radiation requirement.
(6)
Data antenna.
The data antenna must have horizontal and vertical patterns as required for its function.
(g)
Back azimuth coverage requirements.
The back azimuth equipment where used must provide guidance information in at least the following volume of space (see Figure 11):
EC15SE91.016
(1) Horizontally within a sector ±40 degrees about the runway centerline originating at the back azimuth ground equipment antenna and extending in the direction of the missed approach at least to 20 nautical miles from the runway stop end. The minimum proportional guidance sector must be ±10 degrees about the runway centerline. Clearance signals must be
used to provide the balance of the required coverage where the proportional sector is less than ±40 degrees.
(2) Vertically in the runway region between:
(i) A horizontal surface 2.5 meters (8 feet) above the farthest point of runway centerline which is in line of sight of the azimuth antenna, and,
(ii) A conical surface originating at the azimuth ground equipment antenna inclined at 20 degrees above the horizontal up to a height of 600 meters (2000 feet).
(3) Vertically in the back azimuth region between:
(i) A conical surface originating 2.5 meters (8 feet) above the runway stop end, included at 0.9 degree above the horizontal, and,
(ii) A conical surface orginating at the missed approach azimuth ground equipment antenna, inclined at 15 degrees above the horizontal up to a height of 1500 meters (5000 feet).
(iii) Where obstacles penetrate the lower coverage limits, coverage need be provided only to minimum line of sight.
(4) Within the back azimuth coverage sector defined in paragraph (q) (1), (2), and (3) of this section the power densities must not be less than those shown in Table 9, but the equipment design must also allow for:
(i) Transmitter power degradation from normal −1.5 dB.
(ii) Rain loss of −2.2 dB at the longitudinal coverage extremes.
(h)
Back azimuth siting.
The back azimuth equipment antenna must:
(1) Normally be located on the extension of the runway centerline at the threshold end;
(2) Be adjusted so that the vertical plane containing the zero degree course line contains the back azimuth reference datum;
(3) Have minimum height necessary to comply with the course requirements prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section;
(4) Be located at a distance from the threshold end that is consistent with safe obstruction clearance practices;
(5) Not obscure any light of an approach lighting system; and
(6) Be installed on frangible mounts or beyond the 300 meter (1000 feet) light bar.
(i)
Back azimuth antenna coordinates.
The scanning beams transmitted by the back azimuth equipment may be either conical or planar.
(j)
Back azimuth accuracy.
The requirements specified in § 171.313(e) apply except that the reference point is the back azimuth reference datum.
(k)
Back azimuth antenna characteristics.
The requirements specified in § 171.313(f) apply.
(l)
Scanning conventions.
Figure 12 shows the approach azimuth and back azimuth scanning conventions.
EC15SE91.017
EC15SE91.018
EC15SE91.019
(m)
False guidance.
False courses which can be acquired and tracked by an aircraft shall not exist anywhere either inside or outside of the MLS coverage sector. False courses which exist outside of the minimum coverage sector may be suppressed by the use of OCI.

# Note:
False courses may be due to (but not limited to) MLS airborne receiver acquisition of the following types of false guidance: reflections of the scanning beam, scanning beam antenna sidelobes and grating lobes, and incorrect clearance.
§ 171.315
Azimuth monitor system requirements.
(a) The approach azimuth or back azimuth monitor system must cause the radiation to cease and a warning must be provided at the designated control point if any of the following conditions persist for longer than the periods specified:
(1) There is a change in the ground equipment contribution to the mean course error component such that the path following error at the reference datum or in the direction of any azimuth radial, exceeds the limits specified in §§ 171.313(e)(1) or 171.313(j) for a period of more than one second.

# Note:
The above requirement and the requirement to limit the ground equipment mean error to ±10 ft. can be satisfied by the following procedure. The integral monitor alarm limit should be set to the angular equivalent of ±10 ft. at the approach reference datum. This will limit the electrical component of the mean course error to ±10 ft. The field monitor alarm limit should be set such that with the mean course error at the alarm limit the total allowed PFE is not exceeded on any commissioned approach course from the limit of coverage to an altitude of 100 feet.
(2) There are errors in two consecutive transmissions of Basic Data Words 1, 2, 4 or 5.
(3) There is a reduction in the radiated power to a level not less than that specified in §§ 171.313(a)(4) or 171.313(g)(4) for a period of more than one second.
(4) There is an error in the preamble DPSK transmissions which occurs more than once in any one second period.
(5) There is an error in the time division multiplex synchronization of a particular azimuth function that the requirement specified in § 171.311(e) is not satisfied and if this condition persists for more than one second.
(6) A failure of the monitor is detected.
(b) Radiation of the following fuctions must cease and a warning provided at the designated control point if there are errors in 2 consecutive transmissions:
(1) Morse Code Identification,
(2) Basic Data Words 3 and 6,
(3) Auxiliary Data Words.
(c) The period during which erroneous guidance information is radiated must not exceed the periods specified in § 171.315(a). If the fault is not cleared within the time allowed, the ground equipment must be shut down. After shutdown, no attempt must be made to restore service until a period of 20 seconds has elapsed.
§ 171.317
Approach elevation performance requirements.
This section prescribes the performance requirements for the elevation equipment components of the MLS as follows:
(a)
Elevation coverage requirements.
The approach elevation facility must provide proportional guidance information in at least the following volume of space (see Figure 13):
(1) Laterally within a sector originating at the datum point which is at least equal to the proportional guidance sector provided by the approach azimuth ground equipment.
(2) Longitudinally from 75 meters (250 feet) from the datum point to 20 nautical miles from threshold in the direction of the approach.
(3) Vertically within the sector bounded by:
(i) A surface which is the locus of points 2.5 meters (8 feet) above the runway surface;
(ii) A conical surface originating at the datum point and inclined 0.9 degree above the horizontal and,
(iii) A conical surface originating at the datum point and inclined at 15.0 degrees above the horizontal up to a height of 6000 meters (20,000 feet).
EC15SE91.020
Where the physical characteristics of the approach region prevent theachievement of the standards under paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section, guidance need not be provided below a conical surface originating at the elevation antenna and inclined 0.9 degree above the line of sight.
(4) Within the elevation coverage sector defined in paragraphs (a) (1), (2) and (3) of this section, the power densities must not be less than those shown in Table 9, but the equipment design must also allow for:
(i) Transmitter power degradation from normal by −1.5 dB.
(ii) Rain loss of −2.2 dB at the coverage extremes.
(b)
Elevation siting requirements.
The Elevation Antenna System must:
(1) Be located as close to runway centerline as possible (without violating obstacle clearance criteria).
(2) Be located near runway threshold such that the asymptote of the minimum glidepath crosses the threshold of the runway at the Approach Reference Datum height. Normally, the minimum glidepath should be 3 degrees and the Approach Reference Datum height should be 50 feet. However, there are circumstances where other glideslopes and reference datum heights are appropriate. Some of these instances are discussed in FAA Order 8260.34 (Glide Slope Threshold Crossing Height Requirements) and Order 8260.3 (IFR Approval of MLS.)
(3) Be located such that the MLS Approach Reference Datum and ILS Reference Datum heights are coincident within a tolerance of 3 feet when MLS is installed on a runway already served by an ILS. This requirement applies only if the ILS glide slope is sited such that the height of the reference datum meets the requirements of FAA Order 8260.34.
(c)
Antenna coordinates.
The scanning beams transmitted by the elevation subsystem must be conical.
(d)
Elevation accuracy.
(1) The accuracies shown in Table 13 are required at the approach reference datum. From the approach reference datum to the coverage limit, the PFE, PFN and CMN limits shall be allowed to linearly increase as follows:
(i) With distance along the runway centerline extended at the minimum glide path angle, by a factor of 1.2 for the PFE and PFN limits and to ±0.10 degree for the CMN limits;
(ii) With azimuth angle, from runway centerline extended to the coverage extreme, by a factor of 1.2 for the PFE and PFN limits and by a factor of 2.0 for the CMN limits;
(iii) With increasing elevation angles from + 3 degrees to + 15 degrees, by a factor of 2.0 for the PFE and PFN limits;
Table 13—Elevation Accuracies at the Approach Reference Datum
Error type
System
Angular error (degrees)
Ground subsystem
Airborne subsystem
4
PFE
1 2
±0.133
(
3
)
±0.017
CMN
1
±0.050
±0.020
±0.010
Notes:
1
Includes errors due to ground and airborne equipment and propagation effects.
2
The system PFN component must not exceed ±0.087 degree.
3
The mean (bias) error component contributed by the ground equipment should not exceed ±0.067 degree.
4
The airborne subsystem angular errors are provided for information only.
(iv) With decreasing elevation angle from + 3 degrees (or 60% of the minimum glide path angle, whichever is less) to the coverage extreme, by a factor of 3 for the PFE, PFN and CMN limits; and
(v) Maximum angular limits. the CMN limits shall not exceed ±0.10 degree in any coverage region within ±10 degrees laterally of runway centerline extended which is above the elevation angle specified in (iv) above.

# Note:
It is desirable that the CMN not exceed ±0.10 degree throughout the coverage region above the elevation angle specified in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.
(2) The system and ground subsystem accuracies shown in Table 13 are to be demonstrated at commissioning as maximum error limits. Subsequent to commissioning, the accuracies are to be considered at 95% probability limits.
(e) Elevation antenna characteristics are as follows:
(1)
Drift.
Any elevation angle as encoded by the scanning beam at any point within the coverage sector must not vary more than 0.04 degree over the range of service conditions specified in § 171.309(d) without the use of internal environmental controls. Multipath effects are excluded from this requirement.
(2)
Beam pointing errors.
The elevation angle as encoded by the scanning beam at any point within the coverage sector
must not deviate from the true elevation angle at that point by more than ±0.04 degree for elevation angles from 2.5° to 3.5°. Above 3.5° these errors may linearly increase to ±0.1 degree at 7.5°. Multipath and drift effects are excluded from this requirement.
(3)
Antenna alignment.
The antenna must be equipped with suitable optical, electrical, or mechanical means or any combination of the three, to align the lowest operationally required glidepath to the true glidepath angle with a maximum error of 0.01 degree. Additionally, the elevation antenna bias adjustment must be electronically steerable at least to the monitor limits in steps not greater than 0.005 degrees.
(4)
Antenna far field patterns in the plane of scan.
On the lowest operationally required glidepath, the antenna mainlobe pattern must conform to Figure 10, and the beamwidth must be such that in the installed environment, no significant ground reflections of the mainlobe exist. In any case, the beamwidth must not exceed 2 degrees. The antenna mainlobe may be allowed to broaden from the value at boresight by a factor of 1/cosθ, where θ is the angle of boresight. Anywhere within coverage, the −3 dB width of the antenna mainlobe, while scanning normally, must not be less than 25 microseconds (0.5 degrees) or greater than 250 microseconds (5 degrees). The sidelobe levels must be as follows:
(i)
Dynamic sidelobe levels.
With the antenna scanning normally, the dynamic sidelobe level that is detected by a receiver at any point within the proportional coverage sector must be down at least 10 dB from the peak of the mainlobe. Outside the proportional coverage sector, the radiation from the scanning beam antenna must be of such a nature that receiver warnings will not be removed or a suitable OCI signal must be provided.
(ii)
Effective sidelobe levels.
With the antenna scanning normally, the sidelobe levels in the plane of scan must be such that, when reflected from the ground, the resultant PFE along any glidepath does not exceed 0.083 degrees.
(5)
Antenna far field pattern in the horizontal plane.
The horizontal pattern of the antenna must gradually de-emphasize the signal away from antenna boresight. Typically, the horizontal pattern should be reduced by at least 3 dB at 20 degrees off boresight and by at least 6 dB at 40 degrees off boresight. Depending on the actual multipath conditions, the horizontal radiation patterns may require more or less de-emphasis.
(6)
Data antenna.
The data antenna must have horizontal and vertical patterns as required for its function.
(f)
False guidance.
False courses which can be acquired and tracked by an aircraft shall not exist anywhere either inside or outside of the MLS coverage sector. False courses which exist outside of the minimum coverage sector may be suppressed by the use of OCI.

# Note:
False courses may be due to (but not limited to) MLS airborne receiver acquisition of the following types of false guidance: reflections of the scanning beam and scanning beam antenna sidelobes and grating lobes.
§ 171.319
Approach elevation monitor system requirements.
(a) The monitor system must act to ensure that any of the following conditions do not persist for longer than the periods specified when:
(1) There is a change in the ground component contribution to the mean glidepath error component such that the path following error on any glidepath exceeds the limits specified in § 171.317(d) for a period of more than one second.

# Note:
The above requirement and the requirement to limit the ground equipment mean error to ±0.067 degree can be satisfied by the following procedure. The integral monitor alarm limit should be set to ±0.067 degree. This will limit the electrical component of mean glidepath error to ±0.067 degree. The field monitor alarm limit should be set such that with the mean glidepath error at the alarm limit the total allowed PFE is not exceeded on any commissioned glidepath from the limit of coverage to an altitude of 100 feet.
(2) There is a reduction in the radiated power to a level not less than that specified in § 171.317(a)(4) for a period of more than one second.
(3) There is an error in the preamble DPSK transmission which occurs more than once in any one second period.
(4) There is an error in the time division multiplex synchronization of a particular elevation function such that the requirement specified in § 171.311(e) is not satisfied and this condition persists for more than one second.
(5) A failure of the monitor is detected.
(b) The period during which erroneous guidance information is radiated must not exceed the periods specified in § 171.319(a). If the fault is not cleared within the time allowed, radiation shall cease. After shutdown, no attempt must be made to restore service until a period of 20 seconds has elapsed.
§ 171.321
DME and marker beacon performance requirements.
(a) The DME equipment must meet the performance requirements prescribed in subpart G of the part. This subpart imposes requirements that performance features must comply with International Standards and Recommended Practices, Aeronautical Telecommunications, Vol. I of Annex 10 to ICAO. It is available from ICAO, Aviation Building, 1080 University Street, Montreal 101, Quebec, Canada, Attention: Distribution Officer and also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) MLS marker beacon equipment must meet the performance requirements prescribed in subpart H of this part. This subpart imposes requirements that performance features must comply with International Standards and Recommended Practices, Aeronautical Telecommuncations, Vol. I of Annex 10 to ICAO.
[Docket 5034, 29 FR 11337, Aug. 6, 1964, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 171.323
Fabrication and installation requirements.
(a) The MLS facility must be permanent and must be located, constructed, and installed in accordance with best commercial engineering practices, using applicable electric and safety codes and Federal Communications Commission (FCC) licensing requirements and siting requirements of §§ 171.313(b) and 171.317(b).
(b) The MLS facility components must utilize solid state technology except that traveling wave tube amplifiers (TWTA) may be used. A maximum level of common modularity must be provided along with diagnostics to facilitate maintenance and troubleshooting.
(c) An approved monitoring capability must be provided which indicates the status of the equipment at the site and at a remotely located maintenance area, with monitor capability that provides pre-alarm of impending system failures. This monitoring feature must be capable of transmitting the status and pre-alarm over standard phone lines to a remote section. In the event the sponsor requests the FAA to assume ownership of the facility, the monitoring feature must also be capable of interfacing with FAA remote monitoring requirements. This requirement may be complied with by the addition of optional software and/or hardware in space provided in the original equipment.
(d) The mean corrective maintenance time of the MLS equipment must be equal to or less than 0.5 hours with a maximum corrective maintenance time not to exceed 1.5 hours. This measure applies to correction of unscheduled failures of the monitor, transmitter and associated antenna assemblies, limited to unscheduled outage and out of tolerance conditions.
(e) The mean-time-between-failures of the MLS angle system must not be less than 1,500 hours. This measure applies to unscheduled outage, out-of-tolerance conditions, and failures of the monitor, transmitter, and associated antenna assemblies.
(f) The MLS facility must have a reliable source of suitable primary power, either from a power distribution system or locally generated. Adequate power capacity must be provided for the operation of the MLS as well as the test and working equipment of the MLS.
(g) The MLS facility must have a continuously engaged or floating battery power source for the continued normal operation of the ground station
operation if the primary power fails. A trickle charge must be supplied to recharge the batteries during the period of available primary power. Upon loss and subsequent restoration of power, the battery must be restored to full charge within 24 hours. When primary power is applied, the state of the battery charge must not affect the operation of the MLS ground station. The battery must allow continuation of normal operation of the MLS facility for at least 2 hours without the use of additional sources of power. When the system is operating from the battery supply without prime power, the radome deicers and the environmental system need not operate. The equipment must meet all specification requirements with or without batteries installed.
(h) There must be a means for determining, from the ground, the performance of the system including antenna, both initially and periodically.
(i) The facility must have, or be supplemented by, ground, air, or landline communications services. At facilities within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, that are intended for use as instrument approach aids for an airport, there must be ground air communications or reliable communications (at least a landline telephone) from the airport to the nearest FAA air traffic control or communication facility. Compliance with this paragraph need not be shown at airports where an adjacent FAA facility can communicate with aircraft on the ground at the airport and during the entire proposed instrument approach procedure. In addition, at low traffic density airports within or immediately adjacent to controlled airspace, and where extensive delays are not a factor, the requirements of this paragraph may be reduced to reliable communications from the airport to the nearest FAA air traffic control or communications facility. If the adjacent FAA facility can communicate with aircraft during the proposed instrument approach procedure down to the airport surface or at least down to the minimum en route altitude, this would require at least a landline telephone.
(j) The location of the phase center for all antennas must be clearly marked on the antenna enclosures.
(k) The latitude, longitude and mean sea level elevation of all MLS antennas, runway threshold and runway stop end must be determined by survey with an accuracy of ±3 meters (±10 feet) laterally and ±0.3 meter (±1.0 foot) vertically. The relative lateral and vertical offsets of all antenna phase centers, and both runway ends must be determined with an accuracy of ±0.3 meter (±1.0 foot) laterally and ±0.03 meter (±0.1 foot) vertically. The owner must bear all costs of the survey. The results of this survey must be included in the “operations and maintenance” manual required by section 171.325 of this subpart and will be noted on FAA Form 198 required by § 171.327.
[Docket 20669, 51 FR 33177, Sept. 18, 1986, as amended by Amdt. 171-16, 56 FR 65665, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 171.325
Maintenance and operations requirements.
(a) The owner of the facility must establish an adequate maintenance system and provide MLS qualified maintenance personnel to maintain the facility at the level attained at the time it was commissioned. Each person who maintains a facility must meet the FCC licensing requirements and demonstrate that he has the special knowledge and skills needed to maintain an MLS facility, including proficiency in maintenance procedures and the use of specialized test equipment.
(b) In the event of out-of-tolerance conditions or malfunctions, as evidenced by receiving two successive pilot reports, the owner must close the facility by encasing radiation, and issue a “Notice to Airmen” (NOTAM) that the facility is out of service.
(c) The owner must prepare, and obtain approval of, an operations and maintenance manual that sets forth mandatory procedures for operations, periodic maintenance, and emergency maintenance, including instructions on each of the following:
(1) Physical security of the facility.
(2) Maintenance and operations by authorized persons.
(3) FCC licensing requirements for operations and maintenance personnel.
(4) Posting of licenses and signs.
(5) Relations between the facility and FAA air traffic control facilities, with a description of the boundaries of controlled airspace over or near the facility, instructions for relaying air traffic control instructions and information, if applicable, and instructions for the operation of an air traffic advisory service if the facility is located outside of controlled airspace.
(6) Notice to the Administrator of any suspension of service.
(7) Detailed and specific maintenance procedures and servicing guides stating the frequency of servicing.
(8) Air-ground communications, if provided, expressly written or incorporating appropriate sections of FAA manuals by reference.
(9) Keeping the station logs and other technical reports, and the submission of reports required by § 171.327.
(10) Monitoring of the MLS facility.
(11) Inspections by United States personnel.
(12) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of persons to be notified in an emergency.
(13) Shutdowns for periodic maintenance and issuing of NOTAM for routine or emergency shutdowns.
(14) Commissioning of the MLS facility.
(15) An acceptable procedure for amending or revising the manual.
(16) An explanation of the kinds of activities (such as construction or grading) in the vicinity of the MLS facility that may require shutdown or recertification of the MLS facility by FAA flight check.
(17) Procedures for conducting a ground check of the azimuth and elevation alignment.
(18) The following information concerning the MLS facility:
(i) Facility component locations with respect to airport layout, instrument runways, and similar areas.
(ii) The type, make and model of the basic radio equipment that provides the service including required test equipment.
(iii) The station power emission, channel, and frequency of the azimuth, elevation, DME, marker beacon, and associated compass locators, if any.
(iv) The hours of operation.
(v) Station identification call letters and method of station identification and the time spacing of the identification.
(vi) A description of the critical parts that may not be changed, adjusted, or repaired without an FAA flight check to confirm published operations.
(d) The owner or his maintenance representative must make a ground check of the MLS facility periodically in accordance with procedures approved by the FAA at the time of commissioning, and must report the results of the checks as provided in § 171.327.
(e) The only modifications permitted are those that are submitted to FAA for approval by the MLS equipment manufacturer. The owner or sponsor of the facility must incorporate these modifications in the MLS equipment. Associated changes must also be made to the operations and maintenance manual required in paragraph (c) of this section. This and all other corrections and additions to this operations and maintenance manual must also be submitted to FAA for approval.
(f) The owner or the owner's maintenance representative must participate in inspections made by the FAA.
(g) The owner must ensure the availability of a sufficient stock of spare parts, including solid state components, or modules to make possible the prompt replacement of components or modules that fail or deteriorate in service.
(h) FAA approved test instruments must be used for maintenance of the MLS facility.
(i) Inspection consists of an examination of the MLS equipment to ensure that unsafe operating conditions do not exist.
(j) Monitoring of the MLS radiated signal must ensure a high degree of integrity and minimize the requirements for ground and flight inspection. The monitor must be checked daily during the in-service test evaluation period (96 hour burn in) for calibration and stability. These tests and ground checks or azimuth, elevation, DME, and marker beacon radiation characteristics must be conducted in accordance with the maintenance requirements of this section.
§ 171.327
Operational records.
The owner of the MLS facility or his maintenance representative must submit the following operational records at the indicated time to the appropriate FAA regional office where the facility is located.
(a)
Facility Equipment Performance
Adjustment Data (FAA Form 198).
The FAA Form 198 shall be filled out by the owner or his maintenance representative with the equipment adjustments and meter readings as of the time of facility commissioning. One copy must be kept in the permanent records of the facility and two copies must be sent to the appropriate FAA regional office. The owner or his maintenance representative must revise the FAA Form 198 data after any major repair, modernization, or retuning to reflect an accurate record of facility operation and adjustment.
(b)
Facility Maintenance Log (FAA Form 6030-1).
FAA Form 6030-1 is permanent record of all the activities required to maintain the MLS facility. The entries must include all malfunctions met in maintaining the facility including information on the kind of work and adjustments made, equipment failures, causes (if determined) and corrective action taken. In addition, the entries must include completion of periodic maintenance required to maintain the facility. The owner or his maintenance representative must keep the original of each form at the facility and send a copy to the appropriate FAA regional office at the end of each month in which it is prepared. However, where an FAA approved remote monitoring system is installed which precludes the need for periodic maintenance visits to the facility, monthly reports from the remote monitoring system control point must be forwarded to the appropriate FAA regional office, and a hard copy retained at the control point.
(c)
Technical Performance Record (FAA Form 6830 (formerly FAA Form 418)).
This form contains a record of system parameters as specified in the manufacturer's equipment manual. This data will be recorded on each scheduled visit to the facility. The owner or his maintenance representative shall keep the original of each record at the facility and send a copy of the form to the appropriate FAA regional office.

# SUBCHAPTER K—ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
Pt. 183

# PART 183—REPRESENTATIVES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
183.1
Scope.

# Subpart B—Certification of Representatives
183.11
Selection.
183.13
Certification.
183.15
Duration of certificates.
183.17
Reports.

# Subpart C—Kinds of Designations: Privileges
183.21
Aviation Medical Examiners.
183.23
Pilot examiners.
183.25
Technical personnel examiners.
183.27
Designated aircraft maintenance inspectors.
183.29
Designated engineering representatives.
183.31
Designated manufacturing inspection representatives.
183.33
Designated Airworthiness Representative.

# Subpart D—Organization Designation Authorization
183.41
Applicability and definitions.
183.43
Application.
183.45
Issuance of Organization Designation Authorizations.
183.47
Qualifications.
183.49
Authorized functions.
183.51
ODA Unit personnel.
183.53
Procedures manual.
183.55
Limitations.
183.57
Responsibilities of an ODA Holder.
183.59
Inspection.
183.61
Records and reports.
183.63
Continuing requirements: Products, parts or appliances.
183.65
Continuing requirements: Operational approvals.
183.67
Transferability and duration.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701; 49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40113, 44702, 45303.

# Source:
Docket 1151, 27 FR 4951, May 26, 1962, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
For miscellaneous amendments to cross references in this part 183, see Amdt. 183-1, 31 FR 9211, July 6, 1966.

# Subpart A—General
§ 183.1
Scope.
This part describes the requirements for designating private persons to act as representatives of the Administrator in examining, inspecting, and testing persons and aircraft for the purpose of issuing airman, operating, and aircraft certificates. In addition, this part states the privileges of those representatives and prescribes rules for the exercising of those privileges, as follows:
(a) An individual may be designated as a representative of the Administrator under subparts B or C of this part.
(b) An organization may be designated as a representative of the Administrator by obtaining an Organization Designation Authorization under subpart D of this part.
[Docket FAA-2003-16685, 70 FR 59946, Oct. 13, 2005]

# Subpart B—Certification of Representatives
§ 183.11
Selection.
(a) The Federal Air Surgeon, or his or her authorized representatives within the FAA, may select Aviation Medical Examiners from qualified physicians who apply. In addition, the Federal Air Surgeon may designate qualified forensic pathologists to assist in the medical investigation of aircraft accidents.
(b) Any local Flight Standards Inspector may select a pilot examiner, technical personnel examiner, or a designated aircraft maintenance inspector whenever he determines there is a need for one.
(c)(1) The Aircraft Certification Service may select Designated Engineering Representatives from qualified persons who apply by a letter accompanied by a “Statement of Qualifications of Designated Engineering Representative.”
(2) The Aircraft Certification Service may select Designated Manufacturing
Inspection Representatives from qualified persons who apply by a letter accompanied by a “Statement of Qualifications of Designated Manufacturing Inspection Representative.”
(d) The Associate Administrator for Aviation Safety, may select Designated Air Traffic Control Tower Operator Examiners.
(e) The Aircraft Certification Service may select Designated Airworthiness Representatives from qualified persons who apply by a letter accompanied by a “Statement of Qualifications of Designated Airworthiness Representative.”
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0035)
(Secs. 313(a), 314, 601, 603, 605, and 1102, Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1355, 1421, 1423, 1425, and 1502); sec. 6(c) Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Docket 1151, 27 FR 4951, May 26, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 183-7, 45 FR 32669, May 19, 1980; Amdt. 183-8, 48 FR 16179, Apr. 14, 1983; Amdt. 183-9, 54 FR 39296, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 183-13, 73 FR 43066, July 24, 2008; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 183-17, 83 FR 9176, Mar. 5, 2018; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 183-18, 87 FR 75848, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 183.13
Certification.
(a) A “Certificate of Designation” and an appropriate Identification Card is issued to each Aviation Medical Examiner and to each forensic pathologist designated under § 183.11(a).
(b) A “Certificate of Authority” specifying the kinds of designation for which the person concerned is qualified and stating an expiration date is issued to each Flight Standards Designated Representative, along with a “Certificate of Designation” for display purposes, designating the holder as a Flight Standards Representative and specifying the kind of designation for which he is qualified.
(c) A “Certificate of Authority,” stating the specific functions which the person concerned is authorized to perform and stating an expiration date, is issued to each Designated Airworthiness Representative, along with a “Certificate of Designation” for display purposes.
(Secs. 601 and 602, 72 Stat. 752, 49 U.S.C. 1421-1422; secs. 313(a), 314, 601, 603, 605, and 1102, Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1355, 1421, 1423, 1425, and 1502); sec. 6(c) Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Docket 1151, 27 FR 4951, May 26, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 183-2, 32 FR 46, Jan. 5, 1967; Amdt. 183-8, 48 FR 16179, Apr. 14, 1983]
§ 183.15
Duration of certificates.
(a) Unless sooner terminated under paragraph (b) of this section, a designation as an Aviation Medical Examiner or as a Flight Standards or Aircraft Certification Service Designated Representative as described in §§ 183.21, 183.23, 183.25, 183.27, 183.29, 183.31, or 183.33 is effective until the expiration date shown on the document granting the authorization.
(b) A designation made under this subpart terminates:
(1) Upon the written request of the representative;
(2) Upon the written request of the employer in any case in which the recommendation of the employer is required for the designation;
(3) Upon the representative being separated from the employment of the employer who recommended him or her for certification;
(4) Upon a finding by the Administrator that the representative has not properly performed his or her duties under the designation;
(5) Upon the assistance of the representative being no longer needed by the Administrator; or
(6) For any reason the Administrator considers appropriate.
[Docket FAA-2007-27812, 73 FR 43066, July 24, 2008]
§ 183.17
Reports.
Each representative designated under this part shall make such reports as are prescribed by the Administrator.

# Subpart C—Kinds of Designations: Privileges
§ 183.21
Aviation Medical Examiners.
An Aviation Medical Examiner may—
(a) Accept applications for physical examinations necessary for issuing medical certificates under part 67 of this chapter;
(b) Under the general supervision of the Federal Air Surgeon or the appropriate senior regional flight surgeon, conduct those physical examinations;
(c) Issue or deny medical certificates in accordance with part 67 of this chapter, subject to reconsideration by the Federal Air Surgeon or his or her authorized representatives within the FAA; and
(d) [Reserved]
(e) As requested, participate in investigating aircraft accidents.
(Secs. 601 and 602, 72 Stat. 752, 49 U.S.C. 1421-1422)
[Docket 1151, 27 FR 4951, May 26, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 183-2, 32 FR 46, Jan. 5, 1967; Amdt. 183-5, 38 FR 12203, May 10, 1973; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 183-15, 81 FR 1307, Jan. 12, 2016]
§ 183.23
Pilot examiners.
Any pilot examiner, instrument rating examiner, or airline transport pilot examiner may—
(a) As authorized in his designation, accept applications for flight tests necessary for issuing pilot certificates and ratings under this chapter;
(b) Under the general supervision of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, conduct those tests;
(c) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary pilot certificates and ratings to qualified applicants; and
(d) Accept an application for a remote pilot certificate with a small UAS rating and verify the identity of the applicant in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator.
[Docket 1151, 27 FR 4951, May 26, 1962, as amended by Docket FAA-2015-0150, Amdt. 183-16, 81 FR 42214, June 28, 2016]
§ 183.25
Technical personnel examiners.
(a) A designated mechanic examiner (DME) (airframe and power plant) may—
(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, mechanic, oral and practical tests necessary for issuing mechanic certificates under part 65 of this chapter; and
(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary mechanic certificates to qualified applicants.
(b) A designated parachute rigger examiner (DPRE) may—
(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, oral and practical tests necessary for issuing parachute rigger certificates under part 65 of this chapter; and
(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary parachute rigger certificates to qualified applicants.
(c) A designated air traffic control tower operator examiner may—
(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, written and practical tests necessary for issuing control tower operator certificates under part 65 of this chapter; and
(2) In the discretion of the Associate Administrator for Aviation Safety issue temporary control tower operator certificates to qualified applicants.
(d) A designated flight engineer examiner (DFEE) may—
(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, oral and practical tests necessary for issuing flight engineer certificates under part 63 of this chapter; and
(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary flight engineer certificates to qualified applicants.
(e) A designated flight navigator examiner (DFNE) may—
(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, oral and practical tests necessary for issuing flight navigator certificates under part 63 of this chapter; and
(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary flight navigator certificates to qualified applicants.
(f) A designated aircraft dispatcher examiner (DADE) may—
(1) Accept applications for, and conduct, written and practical tests necessary for issuing aircraft dispatcher certificates under part 65 of this chapter; and
(2) In the discretion of the appropriate local Flight Standards Inspector, issue temporary aircraft dispatcher certificates to qualified applicants.
[Docket 1151, 27 FR 4951, May 26, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 183-9, 54 FR 39296, Sept. 25, 1989; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 183-18, 87 FR 75849, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 183.27
Designated aircraft maintenance inspectors.
A designated aircraft maintenance inspector (DAMI) may approve maintenance on civil aircraft used by United States military flying clubs in foreign countries.
§ 183.29
Designated engineering representatives.
(a) A structural engineering representative may approve structural engineering information and other structural considerations within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that information and other structural considerations comply with the applicable regulations of this chapter.
(b) A power plant engineering representative may approve information relating to power plant installations within limitations prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.
(c) A systems and equipment engineering representative may approve engineering information relating to equipment and systems, other than those of a structural, powerplant, or radio nature, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.
(d) A radio engineering representative may approve engineering information relating to the design and operating characteristics of radio equipment, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.
(e) An engine engineering representative may approve engineering information relating to engine design, operation and service, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.
(f) A propeller engineering representative may approve engineering information relating to propeller design, operation, and maintenance, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.
(g) A flight analyst representative may approve flight test information, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that information complies with the applicable regulations of this chapter.
(h) A flight test pilot representative may make flight tests, and prepare and approve flight test information relating to compliance with the regulations of this chapter, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator.
(i) An acoustical engineering representative may witness and approve aircraft noise certification tests and approve measured noise data and evaluated noise data analyses, within the limits prescribed by, and under the general supervision of, the Administrator, whenever the representative determines that the noise test, test data, and associated analyses are in conformity with the applicable regulations of this chapter. Those regulations include, where appropriate, the methodologies and any equivalencies previously approved by the Director of Environment and Energy, for that noise test series. No designated acoustical engineering representative may determine that a type design change is not an acoustical change, or approve
equivalencies to prescribed noise procedures or standards.
[Docket 1151, 27 FR 4951, May 26, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 183-7, 45 FR 32669, May 19, 1980; Amdt. 183-9, 54 FR 39296, Sept. 25, 1989]
§ 183.31
Designated manufacturing inspection representatives.
A designated manufacturing inspection representative (DMIR) may, within limits prescribed by, and under the general supervision of, the Administrator, do the following:
(a) Issue—
(1) Original airworthiness certificates for aircraft and airworthiness approvals for engines, propellers, and product parts that conform to the approved design requirements and are in a condition for safe operation;
(2) Export certificates of airworthiness and airworthiness approval tags in accordance with subpart L of part 21 of this chapter;
(3) Experimental certificates for aircraft for which the manufacturer holds the type certificate and which have undergone changes to the type design requiring a flight test; and
(4) Special flight permits to export aircraft.
(b) Conduct any inspections that may be necessary to determine that—
(1) Prototype products and related parts conform to design specifications; and
(2) Production products and related parts conform to the approved type design and are in condition for safe operation.
(c) Perform functions authorized by this section for the manufacturer, or the manufacturer's supplier, at any location authorized by the FAA.
[Docket 16622, 45 FR 1416, Jan. 7, 1980]
§ 183.33
Designated Airworthiness Representative.
A Designated Airworthiness Representative (DAR) may, within limits prescribed by and under the general supervision of the Administrator, do the following:
(a) Perform examination, inspection, and testing services necessary to issue, and to determine the continuing effectiveness of, certificates, including issuing certificates, as authorized by the Executive Director, Flight Standards Service in the area of maintenance or as authorized by the Executive Director, Aircraft Certification Service in the areas of manufacturing and engineering.
(b) Charge a fee for his or her services.
(c) Perform authorized functions at any authorized location.
(Secs. 313(a), 314, 601, 603, 605, and 1102, Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1355, 1421, 1423, 1425, and 1502); sec.6(c) Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Docket 23140, 48 FR 16179, Apr. 14, 1983, as amended by Amdt. 183-9, 54 FR 39296, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 183-11, 67 FR 72766, Dec. 6, 2002; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 183-17, 83 FR 9176, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Subpart D—Organization Designation Authorization

# Source:
Docket FAA-2003-16685, 70 FR 59947, Oct. 13, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 183.41
Applicability and definitions.
(a) This subpart contains the procedures required to obtain an Organization Designation Authorization, which allows an organization to perform specified functions on behalf of the Administrator related to engineering, manufacturing, operations, airworthiness, or maintenance.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart:
Organization Designation Authorization
(ODA) means the authorization to perform approved functions on behalf of the Administrator.
ODA Holder
means the organization that obtains the authorization from the Administrator, as identified in a Letter of Designation.
ODA Unit
means an identifiable group of two or more individuals within the ODA Holder's organization that performs the authorized functions.
§ 183.43
Application.
An application for an ODA may be submitted after November 14, 2006. An application for an ODA must be submitted in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator and must include the following:
(a) A description of the functions for which authorization is requested.
(b) A description of how the applicant satisfies the requirements of § 183.47 of this part;
(c) A description of the applicant's organizational structure, including a description of the proposed ODA Unit as it relates to the applicant's organizational structure; and
(d) A proposed procedures manual as described in § 183.53 of this part.
§ 183.45
Issuance of Organization Designation Authorizations.
(a) The Administrator may issue an ODA Letter of Designation if:
(1) The applicant meets the applicable requirements of this subpart; and
(2) A need exists for a delegation of the function.
(b) An ODA Holder must apply to and obtain approval from the Administrator for any proposed changes to the functions or limitations described in the ODA Holder's authorization.
§ 183.47
Qualifications.
To qualify for consideration as an ODA, the applicant must—
(a) Have sufficient facilities, resources, and personnel, to perform the functions for which authorization is requested;
(b) Have sufficient experience with FAA requirements, processes, and procedures to perform the functions for which authorization is requested; and
(c) Have sufficient, relevant experience to perform the functions for which authorization is requested.
§ 183.49
Authorized functions.
(a) Consistent with an ODA Holder's qualifications, the Administrator may delegate any function determined appropriate under 49 U.S.C. 44702(d).
(b) Under the general supervision of the Administrator, an ODA Unit may perform only those functions, and is subject to the limitations, listed in the ODA Holder's procedures manual.
§ 183.51
ODA Unit personnel.
Each ODA Holder must have within its ODA Unit—
(a) At least one qualified ODA administrator; and either
(b) A staff consisting of the engineering, flight test, inspection, or maintenance personnel needed to perform the functions authorized. Staff members must have the experience and expertise to find compliance, determine conformity, determine airworthiness, issue certificates or issue approvals; or
(c) A staff consisting of operations personnel who have the experience and expertise to find compliance with the regulations governing the issuance of pilot, crew member, or operating certificates, authorizations, or endorsements as needed to perform the functions authorized.
§ 183.53
Procedures manual.
No ODA Letter of Designation may be issued before the Administrator approves an applicant's procedures manual. The approved manual must:
(a) Be available to each member of the ODA Unit;
(b) Include a description of those changes to the manual or procedures that may be made by the ODA Holder. All other changes to the manual or procedures must be approved by the Administrator before they are implemented.
(c) Contain the following:
(1) The authorized functions and limitations, including the products, certificates, and ratings;
(2) The procedures for performing the authorized functions;
(3) Description of the ODA Holder's and the ODA Unit's organizational structure and responsibilities;
(4) A description of the facilities at which the authorized functions are performed;
(5) A process and a procedure for periodic audit by the ODA Holder of the ODA Unit and its procedures;
(6) The procedures outlining actions required based on audit results, including documentation of all corrective actions;
(7) The procedures for communicating with the appropriate FAA offices regarding administration of the delegation authorization;
(8) The procedures for acquiring and maintaining regulatory guidance material associated with each authorized function;
(9) The training requirements for ODA Unit personnel;
(10) For authorized functions, the procedures and requirements related to maintaining and submitting records;
(11) A description of each ODA Unit position, and the knowledge and experience required for each position;
(12) The procedures for appointing ODA Unit members and the means of documenting Unit membership, as required under § 183.61(a)(4) of this part;
(13) The procedures for performing the activities required by § 183.63 or § 183.65 of this part;
(14) The procedures for revising the manual, pursuant to the limitations of paragraph (b) of this section; and
(15) Any other information required by the Administrator necessary to supervise the ODA Holder in the performance of its authorized functions.
§ 183.55
Limitations.
(a) If any change occurs that may affect an ODA Unit's qualifications or ability to perform a function (such as a change in the location of facilities, resources, personnel or the organizational structure), no Unit member may perform that function until the Administrator is notified of the change, and the change is approved and appropriately documented as required by the procedures manual.
(b) No ODA Unit member may issue a certificate, authorization, or other approval until any findings reserved for the Administrator have been made.
(c) An ODA Holder is subject to any other limitations as specified by the Administrator.
§ 183.57
Responsibilities of an ODA Holder.
The ODA Holder must—
(a) Comply with the procedures contained in its approved procedures manual;
(b) Give ODA Unit members sufficient authority to perform the authorized functions;
(c) Ensure that no conflicting non-ODA Unit duties or other interference affects the performance of authorized functions by ODA Unit members.
(d) Cooperate with the Administrator in his performance of oversight of the ODA Holder and the ODA Unit.
(e) Notify the Administrator of any change that could affect the ODA Holder's ability to continue to meet the requirements of this part within 48 hours of the change occurring.
§ 183.59
Inspection.
The Administrator, at any time and for any reason, may inspect an ODA Holder's or applicant's facilities, products, components, parts, appliances, procedures, operations, and records associated with the authorized or requested functions.
§ 183.61
Records and reports.
(a) Each ODA Holder must ensure that the following records are maintained for the duration of the authorization:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) For any approval or certificate issued by an ODA Unit member (except those airworthiness certificates and approvals not issued in support of type design approval projects):
(i) The application and data required to be submitted under this chapter to obtain the certificate or approval; and
(ii) The data and records documenting the ODA Unit member's approval or determination of compliance.
(3) A list of the products, components, parts, or appliances for which ODA Unit members have issued a certificate or approval.
(4) The names, responsibilities, qualifications and example signature of each member of the ODA Unit who performs an authorized function.
(5) A copy of each manual approved or accepted by the ODA Unit, including all historical changes.
(6) Training records for ODA Unit members and ODA administrators.
(7) Any other records specified in the ODA Holder's procedures manual.
(8) The procedures manual required under § 183.53 of this part, including all changes.
(b) Each ODA Holder must ensure that the following are maintained for five years:
(1) A record of each periodic audit and any corrective actions resulting from them; and
(2) A record of any reported service difficulties associated with approvals or certificates issued by an ODA Unit member.
(c) For airworthiness certificates and approvals not issued in support of a type design approval project, each ODA Holder must ensure the following are maintained for two years;
(1) The application and data required to be submitted under this chapter to obtain the certificate or approval; and
(2) The data and records documenting the ODA Unit member's approval or determination of compliance.
(d) For all records required by this section to be maintained, each ODA Holder must:
(1) Ensure that the records and data are available to the Administrator for inspection at any time;
(2) Submit all records and data to the Administrator upon surrender or termination of the authorization.
(e) Each ODA Holder must compile and submit any report required by the Administrator to exercise his supervision of the ODA Holder.
[Docket FAA-2003-16685, 70 FR 59947, Oct. 13, 2005, as amended by Amdt. 183-14, 76 FR 8893, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 183.63
Continuing requirements: Products, parts or appliances.
For any approval or certificate for a product, part or appliance issued under the authority of this subpart, an ODA Holder must:
(a) Monitor reported service problems related to certificates or approvals it holds;
(b) Notify the Administrator of:
(1) A condition in a product, part or appliance that could result in a finding of unsafe condition by the Administrator; or
(2) A product, part or appliance not meeting the applicable airworthiness requirements for which the ODA Holder has obtained or issued a certificate or approval.
(c) Investigate any suspected unsafe condition or finding of noncompliance with the airworthiness requirements for any product, part or appliance, as required by the Administrator, and report to the Administrator the results of the investigation and any action taken or proposed.
(d) Submit to the Administrator the information necessary to implement corrective action needed for safe operation of the product, part or appliance.
[Docket FAA-2003-16685, 70 FR 59947, Oct. 13, 2005, as amended by Amdt. 183-14, 76 FR 8893, Feb. 16, 2011]
§ 183.65
Continuing requirements: Operational approvals.
For any operational authorization, airman certificate, air carrier certificate, air operator certificate, or air agency certificate issued under the authority of this subpart, an ODA Holder must:
(a) Notify the Administrator of any error that the ODA Holder finds it made in issuing an authorization or certificate;
(b) Notify the Administrator of any authorization or certificate that the ODA Holder finds it issued to an applicant not meeting the applicable requirements;
(c) When required by the Administrator, investigate any problem concerning the issuance of an authorization or certificate; and
(d) When notified by the Administrator, suspend issuance of similar authorizations or certificates until the ODA Holder implements all corrective action required by the Administrator.
§ 183.67
Transferability and duration.
(a) An ODA is effective until the date shown on the Letter of Designation, unless sooner terminated by the Administrator.
(b) No ODA may be transferred at any time.
(c) The Administrator may terminate or temporarily suspend an ODA for any reason, including that the ODA Holder:
(1) Has requested in writing that the authorization be suspended or terminated;
(2) Has not properly performed its duties;
(3) Is no longer needed; or
(4) No longer meets the qualifications required to perform authorized functions.
Pt. 185

# PART 185—TESTIMONY BY EMPLOYEES AND PRODUCTION OF RECORDS IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, AND SERVICE OF LEGAL PROCESS AND PLEADINGS
Sec.
185.1
Purpose.
185.3
Acceptance of service on behalf of the Secretary of Transportation or the Administrator.
185.5
Testimony by employees and production of records in legal proceedings.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40113-40114, 46104; 49 CFR part 9.

# Source:
Docket 9900, 34 FR 16622, Oct. 17, 1969, unless otherwise noted.
§ 185.1
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this part is to name the FAA officials who, pursuant to part 9 of the regulations of the Office of the Secretary of Transportation (49 CFR part 9) as amended (34 FR 11972, July 16, 1969), are those:
(1) Upon whom legal process or pleadings may be served in any legal proceeding concerning the FAA, and who have authority to acknowledge the service and take further action thereon; and
(2) Who otherwise perform the functions prescribed by part 9 in legal proceedings concerning the FAA with respect to testimony by FAA employees and production of FAA records in legal proceedings.
(b) For purposes of this part, “legal proceedings” includes any proceeding before a court of law, administrative board or commission, hearing officer, or other body conducting a legal or administrative proceeding.
§ 185.3
Acceptance of service on behalf of the Secretary of Transportation or the Administrator.
Legal process or pleadings in any legal proceeding concerning the FAA may be served, at the option of the server, on the Chief Counsel, Deputy Chief Counsel, Assistant Chief Counsel, Litigation Division, of the FAA, or any other FAA official designated by the Chief Counsel, with the same effect as if served upon the Secretary of Transportation or the Administrator. The official accepting the service under this section acknowledges the service and takes further action as appropriate.
§ 185.5
Testimony by employees and production of records in legal proceedings.
The Chief Counsel, and each Assistant Chief Counsel, each Regional Counsel, the Aeronautical Center Counsel, and the Technical Center Counsel, with respect to matters arising within their respective jurisdictions, and any other FAA official designated by the Chief Counsel, perform the functions in legal proceedings (other than one described in § 185.3 of this part) as prescribed by part 9 of the regulations of the Office of the Secretary of Transportation, with respect to testimony by FAA employees and production of FAA records in legal proceedings.
[Docket 9900, 34 FR 16622, Oct. 17, 1969, as amended by Amdt. 185-1, 54 FR 39296, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 185-3, 62 FR 46866, Sept. 4, 1997]
Pt. 187

# PART 187—FEES
Sec.
187.1
Scope.
187.3
Definitions.
187.5
Duplicates of licenses.
187.7
Copies; seal.
187.15
Payment of fees.
187.17
Failure of applicant to pay prescribed fees.
187.51
Applicability of overflight fees.
187.53
Calculation of overflight fees.
187.55
Overflight fees billing and payment procedures.
Appendix A to Part 187—Methodology for Computation of Fees for Certification Services Performed Outside the United States
Appendix B to Part 187 [Reserved]
Appendix C to Part 187—Fees for Production Certification-Related Services Performed Outside the United States

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701; 49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 106(l)(6), 40104-40105, 40109, 40113-40114, 44702, 45301.

# Source:
Docket 8347, 32 FR 12051, Aug. 22, 1967, unless otherwise noted.
§ 187.1
Scope.
This part prescribes fees only for FAA services for which fees are not prescribed in other parts of this chapter or in 49 CFR part 7. The fees for services furnished in connection with making information available to the
public are prescribed exclusively in 49 CFR part 7. Appendix A to this part prescribes the methodology for computation of fees for certification services performed outside the United States. Appendix C to this part prescribes the methodology for computation of fees for production certification-related services performed outside the United States.
[Docket FAA-2015-3597, Amdt. 187-36, 81 FR 85853, Nov. 29, 2016]
§ 187.3
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
Great circle distance
means the shortest distance between two points on the surface of the Earth.
Overflight
means a flight through U.S.-controlled airspace that does not include a landing in or takeoff from the United States.
Overflight through Enroute airspace
means an overflight through U.S.-controlled airspace where primarily radar-based air traffic services are provided.
Overflight through Oceanic airspace
means an overflight through U.S.-controlled airspace where primarily procedural air traffic services are provided.
U.S.-controlled airspace
means all airspace over the territory of the United States, extending 12 nautical miles from the coastline of U.S. territory; any airspace delegated to the United States for U.S. control by other countries or under a regional air navigation agreement; or any international airspace, or airspace of undetermined sovereignty, for which the United States has accepted responsibility for providing air traffic control services.
[Docket FAA-2015-3597, Amdt. 187-36, 81 FR 85853, Nov. 29, 2016]
§ 187.5
Duplicates of licenses.
The fee for furnishing to a person entitled thereto a replacement, duplicate, or facsimile of a certificate or other document evidencing a license, for which a fee is not specifically provided elsewhere in this chapter, is $2.
§ 187.7
Copies; seal.
The fees for furnishing photostatic or similar copies of documents and for affixation of the seal for a certification or validation are the same as those provided in subpart H of 49 CFR part 7.
§ 187.15
Payment of fees.
(a) The fees of this part are payable to the Federal Aviation Administration by check, money order, wire transfers, draft, payable in U.S. currency and drawn on a U.S. bank, or by credit card payable in U.S. currency, prior to the provision of any service under this part.
(b) Applicants for the FAA services provided under this part shall pay any bank processing charges on fees collected under this part, when such charges are assessed on U.S. Government.
(c) Applicants for the FAA services described in Appendix A of this part shall pay bank processing charges, when such charges are assessed by banks on U.S. Government deposits.
(d) The fees described in appendix B of this part are payable to the Federal Aviation Administration in U.S. currency. Remittance of fees of $1,000 or more are to be paid by electronic funds transfer. Remittance of amounts less than $1,000 may be paid by electronic funds transfer, check, money order, credit card, or draft.
[Docket 27809, 60 FR 19631, Apr. 19, 1995, as amended by Amdt. 187-7, 62 FR 13503, Mar. 20, 1997; Amdt. 187-7, 62 FR 23295, Apr. 29, 1997; Amdt. 187-10, 62 FR 55703, Oct. 27, 1997; Amdt. 187-7, 63 FR 40000, July 24, 1998; Amdt. 187-11, 65 FR 36008, June 6, 2000; Amdt. 187-12, 66 FR 43718, Aug. 20, 2001; Amdt. 187-4, 72 FR 18559, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 187.17
Failure by applicant to pay prescribed fees.
If an applicant fails to pay fees agreed to under appendix C of this part, the FAA may suspend or deny any application for service and may suspend or revoke any production certification-related approval granted.
[Docket 28967, 62 FR 55703, Oct. 27, 1997]
§ 187.51
Applicability of overflight fees.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, any person who conducts an overflight through either Enroute or Oceanic airspace must pay a fee as calculated in § 187.53.
(b)
Services.
Persons covered by paragraph (a) of this section must pay a fee for the FAA's rendering or providing of certain services, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Air traffic management.
(2) Communications.
(3) Navigation.
(4) Radar surveillance, including separation services.
(5) Flight information services.
(6) Procedural control.
(7) Emergency services and training.
(c) The FAA does not assess a fee for any military or civilian overflight operated by the United States Government or by any foreign government.
(d) Fees for overflights through U.S.-controlled airspace covered by a written FAA agreement or other binding arrangement are charged according to the terms of that agreement or arrangement unless the terms are silent on fees.
[Docket FAA-2015-3597, Amdt. 187-36, 81 FR 85853, Nov. 29, 2016]
§ 187.53
Calculation of overflight fees.
(a) The FAA assesses a total fee that is the sum of the Enroute and Oceanic calculated fees.
(1)
Enroute fee.
The Enroute fee is calculated by multiplying the Enroute rate in paragraph (c) of this section by the total number of nautical miles flown through each segment of Enroute airspace divided by 100 (because the Enroute rate is expressed per 100 nautical miles).
(2)
Oceanic fee.
The Oceanic fee is calculated by multiplying the Oceanic rate in paragraph (c) of this section by the total number of nautical miles flown through each segment of Oceanic airspace divided by 100 (because the Oceanic rate is expressed per 100 nautical miles).
(b) Distance flown through each segment of Enroute or Oceanic airspace is based on the great circle distance (GCD) from the point of entry into U.S.-controlled airspace to the point of exit from U.S.-controlled airspace based on FAA flight data. Where actual entry and exit points are not available, the FAA will use the best available flight data to calculate the entry and exit points.
(c) The rate for each 100 nautical miles flown through Enroute or Oceanic airspace is:
Time period
Enroute rate
Oceanic rate
January 1, 2017 to January 1, 2018
58.45
23.15
January 1,2018 to January 1, 2019
60.07
24.77
January 1, 2019 and Beyond
61.75
26.51
(d) The formula for the total overflight fee is:
Rij = E*DEij/100 + O*DOij/100
Where:
Rij = the total fee charged to aircraft flying between entry point i and exit point j.
DEij = total distance flown through each segment of Enroute airspace between entry point i and exit point j.
DOij = total distance flown through each segment of Oceanic airspace between entry point i and exit point j.
E and O = the Enroute and Oceanic rates, respectively, set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) The FAA will review the rates described in this section at least once every 2 years and will adjust them to reflect the current costs and volume of the services provided.
[Docket FAA-2015-3597, Amdt. 187-36, 81 FR 85853, Nov. 29, 2016]
§ 187.55
Overflight fees billing and payment procedures.
(a) The FAA will send an invoice to each user when fees are owed to the FAA. If the FAA cannot identify the user, then an invoice will be sent to the registered owner. Users will be billed at the address of record in the country where the aircraft is registered, unless a billing address is otherwise provided.
(b) The FAA will send an invoice if the monthly (based on Universal Coordinated Time) fees equal or exceed $400.
(c) Payment must be made by one of the methods described in § 187.15(d).
[Docket FAA-2015-3597, Amdt. 187-36, 81 FR 85853, Nov. 29, 2016]
Pt. 187, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 187—Methodology for Computation of Fees for Certification Services Performed Outside the United States
(a) Fixed fees and hourly rates have been derived using the methodology described below to ensure full cost recovery for certification actions or approvals provided by the FAA for persons outside the United States.
(b) These rates are based on aviation safety inspector time rather than calculating a separate rate for managerial or clerical time because the inspector is the individual performing the actual service. Charging for inspector time, while building in all costs into the rate base, provides for efficient cost recovery and time management.
(c) The hourly billing rate has been determined by using the annual operations budget of the Flight Standards Service. The budget is comprised of the following:
(1) Personnel compensation and benefits, budget code series 1100 (excluding codes 1151 and 1152—overtime, Sunday and holiday pay), 1200, and 1300.
(2) Travel and transportation of persons, budget code series 2100 (excluding code 2100—site visit travel).
(3) Transportation of things, budget code series 2200.
(4) Rental, communications, utilities, budget code series 2300.
(5) Printing and reproduction, budget code series 2400.
(6) Contractual services, budget code series 2500.
(7) Supplies and materials, budget code series 2600.
(8) Equipment, budget code series 3100.
(9) Lands and structures, budget code series 3200.
(10) Insurance claims and indemnities, budget code series 4200.
(d) In order to recover overhead costs attributable to the budget, all costs other than direct inspector transportation and subsistence, overtime, and Sunday/holiday costs, are assigned to the number of inspector positions. An hourly cost per inspector is developed by dividing the annual Flight Standards Operations Budget, excluding the items enumerated above, by the number of aviation safety inspections (OMB position series 1825) on board at the beginning of the fiscal year, to determine the annual cost of an aviation safety inspector. This annual cost of an aviation safety inspector is divided by 2,087 hours, which is the annual paid hours of a U.S. Federal Government employee. This result in the hourly government paid cost of an aviation safety inspector.
(e) To ensure that the hourly inspector cost represents a billing rate that ensures full recovery of costs, the hourly cost per inspector must be multiplied by an indirect work factor to determine the hourly inspector billing rate. This is necessary for the following reasons:
(1) Inspectors spend a significant amount of time in indirect work to support their inspection activities, much of which cannot be allocated to any one client.
(2) Not all 2,087 annual paid hours are available as work hours because training, providing technical assistance, leave, and other indirect work activities reduce the work time that may be directly billed. Consequently, the hourly cost per inspector must be adjusted upwards by an indirect work factor. The calculation of an indirect work factor is discussed in paragraph (f) of this appendix.
(f)(1) The indirect work factor is determined using the following formula:
ER19AP95.000
where:
a = indirect work rate, and
b = leave usage (total leave hours divided by total hours available for work.
(2) The components of the formula are derived as follows:
(i)
a = indirect work rate.
Indirect work rate is take from the Flight Standards Staffing Standard Order and is used to project the amount of time an aviation safety inspector spends in indirect activities, as opposed to certification and surveillance work. The indirect work activities are:
(A) Development of master minimum equipment lists on Flight Operations Evaluation Board.
(B) Development of aircraft training documents on Flight Standardization Board.
(C) Development of Maintenance program documents on Maintenance Review Board.
(D) Providing technical assistance.
(E) Assisting legal counsel.
(F) Evaluation of technical documents.
(G) Leave (all types).
(H) Training.
(I) Administrative time.
(J) Travel for indirect work.
(ii)
b = leave usage (total leave hours divided by total hours available for work).
This is computed by using OMB guidelines of 280 average annual leave hours and 1,800 average annual hours available for work for computer manpower requirements.
(g) The hourly inspector cost, when multiplied by the indirect work factor, yields the hourly inspector billing rate and ensures full cost recovery by incorporating the total amount of FAA paid hours needed to produce one hour of direct billable inspector time.
(h) Certifications and approvals for which there are fixed times, such as airman tests, are determined by multiplying the time used in the Flight Standards Staffing Standard or airman test guidelines by the inspector hourly billing rate.
(i) Certifications and approvals for which there are no fixed work rates, such as airman and repair station facilities (air agencies), are billed at the hourly inspector billing rate.
(j) Actual transportation and subsistence expenses incurred in certification or approval actions will be billed in addition to the hourly inspector billing rate, where such expenses are incurred.
(k) In no event will the fees exceed the actual costs of providing certification or approval services.
(l) The methodology for computing user fees is published in this Appendix. The User fee schedule is published in an FAA Advisory Circular entitled “Flight Standards Service Schedule of Charges Outside the United States.” A copy of this publication may be obtained from: New Orders, Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954.
(m) Fees will be reviewed every year, at the beginning of the fiscal year, and adjusted either upward or downward in order to reflect the current costs of performing tests, authorizations, certifications, permits, or ratings.
(n) Notice of each change to a fee for a service described in the user fee schedule will be published in the “Notices” section of the
Federal Register.
[Amdt. 187-5, 60 FR 19631, Apr. 19, 1995]
Appendix B to Part 187 [Reserved]
Pt. 187, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 187—Fees for Production Certification-Related Services Performed Outside the United States
(a)
Purpose.
This appendix describes the methodology for the calculation of fees for production certification-related services outside the United States that are performed by the FAA.
(b)
Applicability.
This appendix applies to production approval holders who elect to use manufacturing facilities or supplier facilities located outside the United States to manufacture or assemble aeronautical products after September 30, 1997.
(c)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this appendix, the following definitions apply:
Manufacturing facility
means a place where production of a complete aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, part, component, or appliance is performed.
Production certification-related service
means a service associated with initial production approval holder qualification; ongoing production approval holder and supplier surveillance; designee management; initial production approval holder qualification and ongoing surveillance for production certificate extensions outside the United States; conformity inspections; and witnessing of tests.
Supplier facility
means a place where production of a part, component, or subassembly is performed for a production approval holder.
Production approval holder
means a person who holds an FAA approval for production under type certificate only, an FAA approval for production under an approved production inspection system, a production certificate, a technical standard order authorization, or a parts manufacturer approval.
(d)
Procedural requirements.
(1) Applicants may apply for FAA production certification-related services provided outside the United States by a letter of application to the FAA detailing when and where the particular services are required.
(2) The FAA will notify the applicant in writing of the estimated cost and schedule to provide the services.
(3) The applicant will review the estimated costs and schedule of services. If the applicant agrees with the estimated costs and schedule of services, the applicant will propose to the FAA that the services be provided. If the FAA agrees and can provide the services requested, a written agreement will be executed between the applicant and the FAA.
(4) The applicant must provide advance payment for each 12-month period of agreed FAA service unless a shorter period is agreed to between the Production Approval Holder and FAA.
(e)
Fee determination.
(1) Fees for FAA production certification-related services will consist of: personnel compensation and benefit (PC
B) for each participating FAA employee, actual travel and transportation expenses incurred in providing the service, other agency costs and an overhead percentage.
(2) Fees will be determined on a case-by-case basis according to the following general formula:
W
1
H
1
+ W
2
H
2
etc., + T + O
Where:
W
1
H
1
= hourly PC
B rate for employee 1, times estimated hours
W
2
H
2
= hourly PC
B rate for employee 2, etc., times estimated hours
T = estimated travel and transportation expenses
O = other agency costs related to each activity including overhead.
(3) In no event will the applicant be charged more than the actual FAA costs of providing production certification-related services.
(4) If the actual FAA costs vary from the estimated fees by more than 10 percent, written notice by the FAA will be given to the applicant as soon as possible.
(5) If FAA costs exceed the estimated fees, the applicant will be required to pay the difference prior to receiving further services. If the estimated fees exceed the FAA costs, the applicant may elect to apply the balance to future agreements or to receive a refund.
(f) Fees will be reviewed by the FAA periodically and adjusted either upward or downward in order to reflect the current costs of performing production certification-related services outside the United States.
(1) Notice of any change to the elements of the fee formula in this Appendix will be published in the
Federal Register.
(2) Notice of any change to the methodology in this Appendix and other changes for the fees will be published in the
Federal Register.
[Docket 28967, 62 FR 55703, Oct. 27, 1997]
Pt. 189

# PART 189—USE OF FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
Sec.
189.1
Scope.
189.3
Kinds of messages accepted or relayed.
189.5
Limitation of liability.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 9701; 49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40104, 40113, 44502, 45303.

# Source:
Docket 27778, 60 FR 39615, Aug. 2, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 189.1
Scope.
This part describes the kinds of messages that may be transmitted or relayed by FAA Flight Service Stations.
§ 189.3
Kinds of messages accepted or relayed.
(a) Flight Service Stations may accept for transmission over FAA communication systems any messages concerning international or overseas aircraft operations described in paragraphs (a) (1) through (6) of this section. In addition, Flight Service Stations may relay any message described in this section that was originally accepted for transmission at an FAA Flight Service Station outside the 48 contiguous States, or was received from a foreign station of the Aeronautical Fixed Telecommunications Network that, in normal routing, would require transit of the United States to reach an overseas address:
(1) Distress messages and distress traffic.
(2) Messages concerning the safety of human life.
(3) Flight safety messages concerning—
(i) Air traffic control, including—
(A) Messages concerning aircraft in flight or about to depart;
(B) Departure messages;
(C) Flight plan departure messages;
(D) Arrival messages;
(E) Flight plan messages;
(F) Flight notification messages;
(G) Messages concerning flight cancellation; and
(H) Messages concerning delayed departure;
(ii) Position reports from aircraft;
(iii) Messages originated by an aircraft operating agency of immediate concern to an aircraft in flight or about to depart; and
(iv) Meteorological advice of immediate concern to an aircraft in flight or about to depart.
(4) Meteorological messages concerning—
(i) Meteorological forecasts;
(ii) Meteorological observations exclusively; or
(iii) Other meteorological information exchanged between meteorological offices.
(5) Aeronautical administrative messages—
(i) Concerning the operation or maintenance of facilities essential to the safety or regulatory of aircraft operation;
(ii) Essential to efficient functioning of aeronautical telecommunications; or
(iii) Between civil aviation authorities concerning aircraft operation.
(6) Notices to airmen.
(b) The following messages may only be relayed through the FAA communications systems:
(1) Flight regularity messages—
(i) Addressed to the point of intended landing and to not more than two other addressees in the general area of the route segment of the flight to which the message refers, containing information required for weight and balance computation and remarks essential to the rapid unloading of the aircraft;
(ii) Concerning changes, taking effect within 72 hours, in aircraft operating schedules;
(iii) Concerning the servicing of aircraft en route or scheduled to depart within 48 hours;
(iv) Concerning changes in the collective requirements for passengers, crew, or cargo of aircraft en route or about to depart, if the changes are caused by unavoidable deviations from normal operating schedules and are necessary for flight regularity;
(v) Concerning non-routine landings to be made by aircraft en route or about to depart;
(vi) Concerning parts or materials urgently needed to operate aircraft en route or scheduled to depart within 48 hours; or
(vii) Concerning pre-flight arrangement of air navigation services and, in the case of non-scheduled or irregular operations, operational servicing of aircraft scheduled to depart within 48 hours.
(2) Messages originated by and addressed to aircraft operating agencies or their representatives that directly bear on the efficient and economic conduct or day to day operations, if adequate non-United States communications facilities are not available and the messages concern—
(i) Matter described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but not meeting the time limitations described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Aircraft parts, equipment, or supplies, air navigation or communications, or essential ground facilities;
(iii) Train or hotel reservations for passengers or employees;
(iv) Lost baggage or personal effects;
(v) Tickets or cargo shipments and payment therefore;
(vi) Location of passengers and cargo;
(vii) New or revised passenger or cargo rates;
(viii) Crew assignments and similar operations personnel matters taking effect within 7 days;
(ix) Post flight reports for record purposes;
(x) Publicity and special handling regarding dignitaries; or
(xi) Reservations, when originated by aircraft operating agencies to secure space required in transport aircraft.
§ 189.5
Limitation of liability.
The United States is not liable for any omission, error, or delay in transmitting or relaying, or for any failure to transmit or relay, any message accepted for transmission or relayed under this part, even if the omission, error, delay, or failure to transmit or relay is caused by the negligence of an employee of the United States.
Pt. 193

# PART 193—PROTECTION OF VOLUNTARILY SUBMITTED INFORMATION
Sec.
193.1
What does this part cover?
193.3
Definitions.
193.5
How may I submit safety or security information and have it protected from disclosure?
193.7
What does it mean for the FAA to designate information as protected?
193.9
Will the FAA ever disclose information that is designated as protected under this part?
193.11
What is the notice procedure?
193.13
What is the no-notice procedure?
193.15
What FAA officials exercise the authority of the Administrator under this part?
193.17
How must design and production approval holders handle information they receive from the FAA under this part?

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40113, 40123.

# Source:
66 FR 33805, June 25, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 193.1
What does this part cover?
This part describes when and how the FAA protects from disclosure safety and security information that you submit voluntarily to the FAA. This part carries out 49 U.S.C. 40123, protection of voluntarily submitted information.
§ 193.3
Definitions.
Agency
means each authority of the Government of the United States,
whether or not the agency is within or subject to review by another agency, but does not include—
(1) The Congress;
(2) The courts of the United States;
(3) The governments of the territories or possessions of the United States;
(4) The government of the District of Columbia;
(5) Court martial and military commissions.
De-identified
means that the identity of the source of the information, and the names of persons have been removed from the information.
Disclose
means to release information to a person other than another agency. Examples are disclosures under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), in rulemaking proceedings, in a press release, or to a party to a legal action.
Information
includes data, reports, source, and other information. “Information” may be used to describe the whole or a portion of a submission of information.
Summarized
means that individual incidents are not specifically described, but are presented in statistical or other general form.
Voluntary
means that the information was not required to be submitted as part of a mandatory program, and was not submitted as a condition of doing business with the government. “Voluntarily-provided information” does not include information submitted as part of complying with statutory, regulatory, or contractual requirements, except that information submitted as part of complying with a voluntary program under this part is considered to be voluntarily provided.
§ 193.5
How may I submit safety or security information and have it protected from disclosure?
(a) You may do so under a program under this part. The program may be developed based on your proposal, a proposal from another person, or a proposal developed by the FAA.
(b) You may be any person, including an individual, a company, or an organization.
(c) You may propose to develop a program under this part using either the notice procedure in § 193.11 or the no-notice procedure in § 193.13.
(d) If the FAA decides to protect the information that you propose to submit it issues an order designating the information as protected under this part.
(e) The FAA only issues an order designating information as protected if the FAA makes the findings in § 193.7.
(f) The designation may be for a program in which all similar persons may participate, or for a program in which only you submit information.
(g) Even if you receive protection from disclosure under this part, this part does not establish the extent to which the FAA may or may not use the information to take enforcement action. Limits on enforcement action applicable to a program under this part will be in another policy or rule.
§ 193.7
What does it mean for the FAA to designate information as protected?
(a)
General.
When the FAA issues an order designating information as protected under this part, the FAA does not disclose the information except as provided in this part.
(b)
What findings does the FAA make before designating information as protected?
The FAA designates information as protected under this part when the FAA finds that—
(1) The information is provided voluntarily;
(2) The information is safety or security related;
(3) The disclosure of the information would inhibit the voluntary provision of that type of information;
(4) The receipt of that type of information aids in fulfilling the FAA's safety and security responsibilities; and
(5) Withholding such information from disclosure, under the circumstances provided in this part, will be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities.
(c)
How will the FAA handle requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)?
The FAA does not disclose information that is designated as protected under this part in response to a FOIA request.
(d)
What if the FAA obtains from another source the same information I submit?
Only information received under a program under this part is protected from disclosure under this part. Information obtained by the FAA through another means is not protected under this part.
(e)
Sharing information with other agencies.
The FAA may provide information that you have submitted under this part to other agencies with safety or security responsibilities. The agencies are subject to the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 40123 regarding nondisclosure of information. The FAA will give the information to another agency only if, for each such request, the other agency provides the FAA with adequate assurance, in writing, that—
(1) The agency has a safety or security need for the information, including the general nature of the need.
(2) The agency will protect the information from disclosure as required in 49 U.S.C. 40123, this part, and the designation. This includes a commitment that the agency will mark the information as provided in the designation.
(3) The agency will limit access to those with a need to know to carry out safety or security responsibilities.
(f)
What if the FAA receives a subpoena for the information I submit?
When the FAA receives a subpoena for information you have submitted under this part, the FAA contacts you to determine whether you object to disclosure of the information or you wish to participate in responding to the subpoena. If both you and the FAA determine that release of the information is appropriate, the information is released. Otherwise, the FAA will not release information designated as protected under this part unless ordered to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 193.9
Will the FAA ever disclose information that is designated as protected under this part?
The FAA discloses information that is designated as protected under this part when withholding it would not be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities, as follows:
(a)
Disclosure in all programs.
(1) The FAA may disclose de-identified, summarized information submitted under this part to explain the need for changes in policies and regulations. An example is the FAA publishing a notice of proposed rulemaking based on your information, and including a de-identified, summarized version of your information (and the information from other persons, if applicable) to explain the need for the notice of proposed rulemaking.
(2) The FAA may disclose information provided under this part to correct a condition that compromises safety or security, if that condition continues uncorrected.
(3) The FAA may disclose information provided under this part to carry out a criminal investigation or prosecution.
(4) The FAA may disclose information provided under this part to comply with 49 U.S.C. 44905, regarding information about threats to civil aviation.
(b)
Additional disclosures.
For each program, the FAA may find that there are additional circumstances under which withholding information provided under this part would not be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities. Those circumstances are described in the designation for that program.
§ 193.11
What is the notice procedure?
This section states the notice procedure for the FAA to designate information as protected under this part. This procedure is used when there is not an immediate safety or security need for the information. This procedure generally is used to specify a type of information that you and others like you will provide on an on-going basis.
(a)
Application.
You may apply to have information designated as protected under this part by submitting an application addressed to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 for paper submissions, and the Federal Docket Management System (FDMS) Web page at
http://www.regulations.gov
for electronic submissions. Your application must include the designation described in paragraph (c) of this section that you want the FAA to issue. You should not include in your application
any information that you do not want available to the public. The FAA may issue a proposed designation based on the application or may deny your application.
(b)
Proposed designation.
Before issuing a designation under this section, based either on your application or the FAA's own initiative, the FAA publishes a proposed designation in the
Federal Register
and requests comment.
(c)
Designation.
The FAA designates information as protected under this part if, after review of the comments, the FAA makes the findings in § 193.7. The FAA publishes in the
Federal Register
an order designating the information provided under the program as protected under this part. The designation includes the following:
(1) A summary of why the FAA finds that you and others, if applicable, will provide the information voluntarily.
(2) A description of the type of information that you and others, if applicable, may voluntarily provide under the program and a summary of why the FAA finds that the information is safety or security related.
(3) A summary of why the FAA finds that the disclosure of the information would inhibit you and others, if applicable, from voluntarily providing of that type of information.
(4) A summary of why the receipt of that type of information aids in fulfilling the FAA's safety and security responsibilities.
(5) A summary of why withholding such information from disclosure would be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities, including a statement as to the circumstances under which, and a summary of why, withholding such information from disclosure would not be consistent with the FAA's safety and security responsibilities, as described in § 193.9.
(6) A summary of how the FAA will distinguish information protected under this part from information the FAA receives from other sources.
(7) A summary of the significant comments received and the FAA's responses.
(d)
Amendment of designation.
The FAA may amend a designation using the procedures in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(e)
Withdrawal of designation.
The FAA may withdraw a designation under this section at any time the FAA finds that continuation of the designation does not meet the elements of § 193.7, or if the requirements of the designation are not met. The FAA withdraws the designation by publishing a notice in the
Federal Register.
The withdrawal is effective on the date of publication or such later date as the notice may state. Information provided during the time the program was designated remains protected under this part and the program. Information provided after the withdrawal of the designation is effective is not protected under this part or the program.
[66 FR 33805, June 25, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 68475, Dec. 5, 2007]
§ 193.13
What is the no-notice procedure?
This section states the no-notice procedure for the FAA to designate information as protected under this part. This procedure is used when there is an immediate safety or security need for the information. This procedure generally is used for specific information that you will provide on a short-term basis.
(a)
Application.
You may request that the FAA designate information you are offering as protected under this part. You must state your name, at least the general nature of information, and whether you will provide the information without the protection of this part. Your request may be verbal or writing.
(b)
Designation.
The FAA issues a written order designating information provided under this section as protected under this part. The FAA designates the information as protected under this part if the FAA—
(1) Makes the findings as § 193.7; and
(2) Finds that there is an immediate safety or security need to obtain the information without carrying out the procedures in § 193.11 of this part.
(c)
Time limit.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, no designation under this section continues in effect for more than 60
days after the date of designation. Information provided during the time the designation was in effect remains protected under this part. Information provided that the designation ceases to be in effect is not protected under this part. The designation remains in effect for more than 60 days if—
(1) The procedures to designate such information under § 193.11(a) have been initiated, or
(2) There is an ongoing enforcement or criminal investigation, in which case the designation may continue until the investigation is completed.
(d)
Amendment of designation.
The FAA may amend a designation under this section using the procedures in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(e)
Withdrawal of designation.
The FAA may withdraw a designation under this section at any time the FAA finds that continuation does not meet the elements of § 193.7, or if the requirements of the designation are not met. The FAA withdraws the designation by notifying the person in writing that the designation is withdrawn. The withdrawal is effective on the date of receipt of the notice or such later date as the notice may state. Information provided during the time the designation was in effect remains protected under this part. Information provided after the withdrawal is effective is not protected under this part.
§ 193.15
What FAA officials exercise the authority of the Administrator under this part?
(a) The authority to issue proposed and final designations, to issue proposed and final amendments of designations, and to withdraw designations under this part, and to disclose information that has been designated as protected under this part, is delegated by the Administrator to Associate Administrators and Assistant Administrators and to the Chief Counsel, their Deputies, and any individual formally designated as Acting Associate or Assistant Administrator, Acting Chief Counsel, or Acting Deputy of such offices.
(b) The officials identified in paragraph (a) of this section may further delegate the authority to issue proposed designations and proposed amendments to designations.
§ 193.17
How must design and production approval holders handle information they receive from the FAA under this part?
(a) If the FAA discloses information under § 193.9(a)(2) to the holders of design approvals of production approvals issued by the FAA, the approval holder must disclose that information only to persons who need to know the information to address the safety or security condition.
(b) Unless an emergency exists, before disclosing information to approval holders the FAA will contact the submitter of the information.

# SUBCHAPTER L—OTHER SPECIAL FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS (EFF. 1-21-25)

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 194-1, 89 FR 92489, Nov. 21, 2024, subchapter L was added, effective Jan. 21, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows.

# PART 194—SPECIAL FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATION NO. 120—POWERED-LIFT: PILOT CERTIFICATION AND TRAINING; OPERATIONS REQUIREMENTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
194.101
Applicability.
194.103
Definitions.
194.105
Qualification of powered-Lift FSTDs.
194.107
Expiration.
194.109
Incorporation by reference.

# Subpart B—Certification, Training, and Qualification Requirements for Pilots and Flight Instructors
194.201
Alternate definition of cross-country time.
194.203
Alternate qualification requirements for certain flight instructors.
194.205
Limitations on flight training privileges for holders of airline transport pilot certificates under a part 135 of this chapter approved training program.
194.207
Alternate requirement for practical tests and training in a powered-lift.
194.209
Additional qualification requirements for certain pilots serving as second-in-command.
194.211
Alternate eligibility requirements for a person seeking a powered-lift type rating.
194.213
Alternate endorsement requirements for certain persons seeking a powered-lift rating.
194.215
Applicability of alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for commercial pilot certification and a powered-lift instrument rating.
194.216
Alternate aeronautical experience: Pilot-in-command flight time in a powered-lift for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating
194.217
Test pilots, FAA test pilots, or aviation safety inspectors: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
194.219
Instructor pilots: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
194.221
Initial cadre of instructors: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
194.223
Pilots receiving training under an approved training program: Alternate requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
194.225
Test pilots, FAA test pilots, or aviation safety inspectors: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
194.227
Instructor pilots: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
194.229
Initial cadre of instructors: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
194.231
Pilots receiving training under an approved training program: Alternate requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
194.233
Alternate means to satisfy the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
194.235
Alternate means to satisfy the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
194.237
Alternate means to satisfy the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements for a private pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
194.239
Alternate means to satisfy minimum curriculum content in certain appendices to part 141 of this chapter.
194.241
Alternate qualification requirements for chief instructors, assistant chief instructors, and check instructors.
194.243
Pilot certification through completion of training, testing, and checking under part 135 of this chapter.
194.245
Pilot qualification and program management requirements to operate powered-lift under subpart K to part 91 of this chapter.
194.247
Pilot qualification requirements to operate powered-lift under part 135 of this chapter.
194.249
References to class in parts 135, 141, and 142 of this chapter.
194.251
Alternate means to satisfy minimum curriculum content in training courses under part 142 of this chapter.
194.253
Alternate requirements for powered-lift without fully functional dual controls used in flight training.
194.255
Alternate requirements for powered-lift without fully functioning dual controls used in supervised operating experience when adding a type rating.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Persons Operating Powered-Lift
194.301
Applicability.
194.302
Provisions under part 91 of this chapter applicable to powered-lift.
194.303
IFR takeoff, approach, and landing minimums.
194.304
ATC transponder and altitude reporting equipment and use.
194.305
Applicability of copter procedures under part 97 of this chapter to powered-lift.
194.306
Provisions under part 135 of this chapter applicable to powered-lift.
194.307
Applicability of rules for eligible on-demand operations.
194.308
Applicability of national air tour safety standards under part 136 of this chapter to powered-lift.
194.309
Applicability of flight instruction; Simulated instrument flight.
194.310
Powered-lift in vertical-lift flight mode, flight recorder specifications under part 91 of this chapter.
194.311
Powered-lift in wing-borne flight mode, flight recorder specifications under part 91 of this chapter.
194.312
Powered-lift in vertical-lift flight mode, flight recorder specifications under part 135 of this chapter.
194.313
Powered-lift in wing-borne flight mode, flight recorder specification under part 135 of this chapter.

# Subpart D—Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, Rebuilding, and Alteration Requirements for Powered-Lift Under Part 43 of This Chapter
194.401
Applicability.
194.402
Maintenance provisions.
Appendix A to Part 194—Minimum requirements for a pilot training program in a powered-lift originally type certificated or seeking type certification with one set of controls and a single pilot station.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7572; 49 U.S.C. 106(f), 40113, 44701-44705, 44707, 44712, 44713, 44715, 44716, and 44722; Sec. 955 of Pub. L. 118-63.

# Source:
89 FR 92489, Nov. 21, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 194.101
Applicability.
(a) The Special Federal Aviation Regulation (SFAR) in this part prescribes:
(1) Certain requirements that may be satisfied in lieu of the requirements of part 61 of this chapter for persons seeking a powered-lift pilot certificate and rating, the conditions under which those certificates and ratings are necessary, and the privileges and limitations of those certificates and ratings;
(2) The general operating rules applicable to all persons operating powered-lift, including those an operator must meet to conduct powered-lift operations under parts 91, 135, and 136 of this chapter;
(3) The requirements for persons conducting training, testing, and checking utilizing a powered-lift or flight simulation training device (FSTD) representing a powered-lift under parts 135, 141, and 142 of this chapter; and
(4) The requirements for persons conducting maintenance, preventative maintenance, rebuilds, alterations, or inspections on powered-lift pursuant to part 43 of this chapter.
(b) In addition to the requirements in this part, the following parts continue to apply to those persons described in paragraph (a) of this section unless otherwise specified in this part: parts 43, 60, 61, 91, 97, 135, 136, 141, and 142 of this chapter.
§ 194.103
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
Aviation Safety Inspector
means a pilot employed by the FAA to conduct operations of a powered-lift for the purpose of establishing a type rating in that particular powered-lift under part 21 of this chapter, as appropriate.
Extended over-water operation
means a powered-lift operation over water at a horizontal distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the nearest shoreline and more than 50 nautical miles from an off-shore heliport structure under part 91 or 135 of this chapter.
FAA test pilot
means a pilot employed by the FAA to conduct operations of a powered-lift for the purpose of FAA examination or inspection of a type design for which an application for type
certification has been submitted under part 21 of this chapter.
Heliport
means an area of land, water, or structure used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of helicopters and powered-lift.
Instructor pilot
means a pilot employed or used by a manufacturer of a powered-lift to conduct operations of the powered-lift for the purpose of developing a proposed training curriculum and providing crew training.
Manufacturer
means any person who holds, or is an applicant for, a type or production certificate for an aircraft. An amateur builder under § 21.191(g) of this chapter, builder of a kit aircraft under § 21.191(h) of this chapter, or the holder of a restricted category type certificate are not considered manufacturers for the purpose of this part.
Test pilot
means a pilot employed or used by a manufacturer of a powered-lift to conduct operations of the powered-lift for the purpose of research and development and showing compliance with this chapter.
Vertical-lift flight mode
means a mode of flight where a powered-lift:
(1) Is in a configuration that allows vertical takeoff, vertical landing, and low-speed flight; and
(2) Depends principally on engine-driven lift devices or engine thrust for lift.
Wing-borne flight mode
means a mode of flight where a powered-lift is not operating in the vertical-lift flight mode as defined and depends exclusively or partially on nonrotating airfoil(s) for lift during takeoff, landing, or horizontal flight.
§ 194.105
Qualification of powered-lift FSTDs.
(a) For flight simulation training devices (FSTDs) representing powered-lift for which qualification standards have not been issued under part 60 of this chapter, the applicable requirements will be the portions of the flight simulation training device qualification performance standards contained in appendices A through D to part 60 of this chapter that are found by the Administrator to be appropriate for the powered-lift and applicable to a specific type design, or such FSTD qualification criteria as the Administrator may find provide an equivalent level of safety to those FSTD qualification standards.
(b) Proposed qualification performance standards as set forth by paragraph (a) of this section will be published in the
Federal Register
for comment, except when the FAA considers public notice to be unnecessary because previous opportunities to comment on substantially identical proposed qualification performance standards have been provided. In these instances, FAA will provide personal notice and opportunity for comment.
§ 194.107
Expiration.
This part, consisting of Special Federal Aviation Regulation (SFAR) No. 120, will remain in effect until January 21, 2035.
§ 194.109
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FAA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FAA's Office of Rulemaking, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20590; phone: (202) 267-9677. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from the sources in the following paragraphs:
(a) RTCA, Inc., 1150 18th St. NW, Suite 910, Washington, DC 20036; phone: (202) 833-9339; website:
www.rtca.org/products.
(1) Section 2 of RTCA DO-309, Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS) for Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) Airborne Equipment (Mar. 13, 2008); into §§ 194.302; 194.306.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) U.S. Department of Transportation, Subsequent Distribution Office, DOT Warehouse M30, Ardmore East Business Center, 3341 Q 75th Avenue, Landover, MD 20785; phone (301) 322-5377; website:
www.faa.gov/aircraft/air_cert/design_approvals/tso/
(select
the link “Search Technical Standard Orders”).
(1) TSO-C194, Technical Standard Order: Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System, effective Dec. 17, 2008; into §§ 194.302; 194.306.
(2) [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Certification, Training, and Qualification Requirements for Pilots and Flight Instructors
§ 194.201
Alternate definition of cross-country time.
Notwithstanding the cross-country time definitions in § 61.1(b) of this chapter, a person may log flight time in a powered-lift as cross-country time provided the time was acquired during a flight—
(a) That includes a point of landing that was at least a straight-line distance of more than 25 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(b) That involves the use of dead reckoning, pilotage, electronic navigation aids, radio aids, or other navigation systems to navigate to the landing point.
§ 194.203
Alternate qualification requirements for certain flight instructors.
(a)
Instructor pilots at a manufacturer.
In addition to the provisions specified in § 61.3(d)(3) of this chapter, a flight instructor certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter is not necessary to conduct flight training if the training is given by an instructor pilot in a powered-lift at the manufacturer, provided the training is conducted in accordance with the manufacturer's training curriculum and is given to either—
(1) A test pilot;
(2) A person authorized by the Administrator to serve as an initial check pilot, chief instructor, assistant chief instructor, or training center evaluator for the purpose of initiating training in a powered-lift under an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter, as appropriate; or
(3) An FAA test pilot or aviation safety inspector.
(b)
Flight instructors under part 135 of this chapter.
Notwithstanding the requirement in § 61.3(d)(3)(ii) of this chapter, a person must hold a flight instructor certificate with the appropriate powered-lift ratings to conduct training in accordance with a training curriculum approved to meet the requirements of § 194.243(a)(1).
§ 194.205
Limitations on flight training privileges for holders of airline transport pilot certificates under a part 135 of this chapter approved training program.
Notwithstanding the privileges in § 61.167(a)(2) of this chapter, a person who holds an airline transport pilot certificate with powered-lift ratings must hold a flight instructor certificate with the appropriate powered-lift ratings to instruct pilots in accordance with a training curriculum approved to meet the requirements of § 194.243(a)(1).
§ 194.207
Alternate requirement for practical tests and training in a powered-lift.
(a)
Required equipment for the practical test.
Notwithstanding the equipment requirement in § 61.45(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter and the limitation specified in § 61.45(b)(2) of this chapter, an applicant for a certificate or rating may use a powered-lift that is precluded from performing all of the tasks required for the practical test without receiving a limitation on the applicant's certificate or rating, as appropriate.
(b)
Waiver authority for a practical test conducted in a powered-lift.
An Examiner who conducts a practical test in a powered-lift may waive any task for which the FAA has provided waiver authority.
(c)
Flight training on waived tasks.
Notwithstanding the requirements in §§ 61.107(a) and 61.127(a) of this chapter for training to include the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(5) or § 61.127(b)(5) of this chapter, as applicable, an applicant seeking a private pilot certificate or commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating concurrently with a powered-lift type rating is not required to receive and log flight training on a task specified in an area of operation if the powered-lift is not capable of performing the task, provided the FAA has issued
waiver authority for that task in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 194.209
Additional qualification requirements for certain pilots serving as second-in-command.
(a) A person who obtains at least a private pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating by satisfactorily completing the practical test in a powered-lift that is precluded from performing each task required by § 61.43(a)(1) of this chapter may not serve as second-in-command of a powered-lift that is capable of performing the tasks that were waived on the person's practical test until the person has—
(1) Received and logged ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the specific tasks that were waived on the person's practical test; and
(2) Received a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor certifying the person has satisfactorily demonstrated proficiency of those tasks.
(b) The training and endorsement required by paragraph (a) of this section are not required if, prior to serving as second-in-command, a person meets one of the following requirements—
(1) Successfully completes the practical test for a powered-lift type rating, and the practical test includes each task required by § 61.43(a)(1) of this chapter; or
(2) Has received ground and flight training under an approved training program and has satisfactorily completed a competency check under § 135.293 or § 91.1065 of this chapter in a powered-lift, and the approved training and checking include each task that was previously waived in accordance with § 194.207(b).
(c) An applicant receiving flight training under § 194.221, § 194.223, § 194.229, or § 194.231 may serve as second-in-command in a powered-lift type certificated for more than one required pilot flight crewmember without meeting the requirements of § 61.55(a)(1), (a)(2), and (b)(2) of this chapter.
§ 194.211
Alternate eligibility requirements for a person seeking a powered-lift type rating.
(a)
General applicability.
The requirements specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply only to persons seeking a type rating in a powered-lift that is capable of performing instrument maneuvers and procedures.
(b)
Obtaining an initial powered-lift type rating without concurrently obtaining the instrument-powered-lift rating.
(1) Notwithstanding the requirement to hold or concurrently obtain an appropriate instrument rating in § 61.63(d)(1) of this chapter, a person who applies for an initial powered-lift type rating to be completed concurrently with a powered-lift category rating may apply for the type rating without holding or concurrently obtaining a powered-lift instrument rating, but the type rating will be limited to “visual flight rules (VFR) only.”
(2) Notwithstanding the requirement in § 61.63(d)(4) of this chapter, a person who applies for a powered-lift type rating pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not required to perform the type rating practical test in actual or simulated instrument conditions.
(3) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, a person who obtains a powered-lift type rating with a “VFR only” limitation pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section must remove the limitation in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section within 2 calendar months from the month in which the person passes the type rating practical test.
(4) The “VFR only” limitation may be removed after the person—
(i) Passes an instrument rating practical test in a powered-lift in actual or simulated instrument conditions; and
(ii) Passes a practical test in the powered-lift type for which the “VFR only” limitation applies on the appropriate areas of operation listed in § 61.157(e)(3) of this chapter that consist of performing instrument maneuvers and procedures in actual or simulated instrument conditions.
(5) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, if a person who obtains a powered-lift type rating with a “VFR only” limitation pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not
remove the limitation within 2 calendar months from the month in which the person completed the type rating practical test, the powered-lift type rating for which the “VFR only” limitation applies will become invalid for use until the person removes the limitation in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(6) A person holding a private pilot certificate is not required to remove the “VFR only” limitation if the limitation applies to a powered-lift type that is not a large aircraft or turbojet-powered.
(c)
Obtaining an additional powered-lift type rating with a “VFR Only” limitation.
(1) Notwithstanding the requirement to hold or concurrently obtain an appropriate instrument rating in § 61.63(d)(1) of this chapter, a person holding a private pilot certificate may apply for a powered-lift type rating for a powered-lift that is not a large aircraft or turbojet-powered without holding or concurrently obtaining a powered-lift instrument rating, but the type rating will be limited to “VFR only.”
(2) Notwithstanding the requirement in § 61.63(d)(4) of this chapter, a person who applies for a powered-lift type rating pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not required to perform the type rating practical test in actual or simulated instrument conditions.
(3) A person who obtains a powered-lift type rating with a “VFR only” limitation pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section may remove the “VFR only” limitation for that powered-lift type as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(d)
Concurrent practical tests for removal of “VFR only” limitation.
If a task required for the practical test specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section overlaps with a task required for the practical test specified in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, a person may perform the task a single time provided the task is performed to the highest standard required for the task.
§ 194.213
Alternate endorsement requirements for certain persons seeking a powered-lift rating.
(a) Notwithstanding the requirements in part 61 of this chapter for an authorized instructor to provide endorsements for certificates and ratings, including endorsements for solo flight, the following persons may provide the required logbook or training record endorsements under part 61 of this chapter and this part for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, an instrument-powered-lift rating, a powered-lift type rating, or a flight instructor certificate with powered-lift ratings—
(1) An instructor pilot, provided the applicant is either—
(i) A test pilot or instructor pilot for the manufacturer seeking type certification of an experimental powered-lift;
(ii) A person authorized by the Administrator to serve as an initial check pilot, chief instructor, assistant chief instructor, or training center evaluator for the purpose of initiating training in a powered-lift under an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter, as appropriate; or
(iii) An FAA test pilot or aviation safety inspector; or
(2) A management official within the manufacturer's organization, provided the applicant is an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift.
(b) The endorsements for training time under this section must include a description of the training given, length of training lesson, and the endorsement provider's signature and identifying information, including certificate number and expiration date, if applicable.
§ 194.215
Applicability of alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for commercial pilot certification and a powered-lift instrument rating.
(a) The alternate requirements set forth in §§ 194.216 through 194.231 apply only to persons who hold at least a commercial pilot certificate with the following ratings:
(1) An airplane category rating with a single-engine or multi-engine class rating and an instrument-airplane rating; or
(2) A rotorcraft category rating with a helicopter class rating and an instrument-helicopter rating.
(b) If no alternate aeronautical experience or logging requirement is provided under this part, the person must meet the applicable requirements under part 61 of this chapter, as appropriate.
§ 194.216
Alternate aeronautical experience: Pilot-in-command flight time in a powered-lift for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
(a)
Pilot-in-command flight time in a powered-lift.
Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement specified in § 61.123(f) of this chapter, an applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating under § 194.217, § 194.219, § 194.221, or § 194.223 may log 35 hours of pilot-in-command flight time in a powered-lift in lieu of the aeronautical experience requirement of § 61.129(e)(2)(i) of this chapter.
(b)
Use of full flight simulators.
In addition to the permitted credit for use of a full flight simulator in § 61.129(i) of this chapter, an applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating may credit a maximum of 15 hours toward the 35 hours of pilot-in-command flight time requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, provided—
(1) The aeronautical experience was obtained performing the duties of pilot-in-command in a Level C or higher full flight simulator that represents the powered-lift category; and
(2) The full flight simulator sessions are conducted in accordance with:
(i) For test pilots, instructor pilots, FAA test pilots, or FAA aviation safety inspectors under § 194.217 or § 194.219, as applicable, the manufacturer's proposed training curriculum;
(ii) For the initial cadre of instructors under § 194.221, the manufacturer's training curriculum; or
(iii) For pilots under § 194.223, an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter.
§ 194.217
Test pilots, FAA test pilots, or aviation safety inspectors: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
(a)
General applicability.
An applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating who is a test pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift, an FAA test pilot, or an aviation safety inspector may satisfy the alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, provided—
(1) The flights are conducted in an experimental powered-lift at the manufacturer;
(2) The applicant is authorized by the Administrator to act as pilot in command of the experimental powered-lift.
(b)
Alternate aeronautical experience requirements.
Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement specified in § 61.123(f) of this chapter, a test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section in lieu of the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.129(e)(3) and (4) of this chapter.
(1) A test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may receive 20 hours of flight training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(5) of this chapter from an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift in lieu of an authorized instructor, provided—
(i) The training is conducted in accordance with the manufacturer's proposed training curriculum in the experimental powered-lift; and
(ii) The test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector receives a logbook or training record endorsement from the instructor pilot certifying that the test pilot satisfactorily completed the training curriculum specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) A test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may accomplish the practical test preparation requirements in § 61.129(e)(3)(iv) of this chapter with a pilot who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the experimental powered-lift.
(3) A test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may satisfy the aeronautical experience requirement in § 61.129(e)(4) of this chapter by logging at least 10 hours of solo flight time under an endorsement from an instructor pilot or performing the duties
of pilot-in-command in an experimental powered-lift with one of the following individuals onboard (which may be credited towards the flight time requirement in §§ 61.129(e)(2), and (e)(2)(ii) of this chapter and 194.216(a))—
(i) A test pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift who is authorized by the Administrator to act as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift; or
(ii) An instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift who is authorized by the Administrator to act as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift.
(4) A test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may satisfy the alternate requirements in § 194.233 in lieu of the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.129(e)(3)(ii) and (iii) and (e)(4)(i) of this chapter.
(c)
Alternate logging requirement.
Notwithstanding the logging requirements in § 61.51(e)(1) of this chapter, an applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating may log pilot-in-command flight time for the purpose of satisfying the aeronautical experience requirements in §§ 61.129(e)(2)(ii) and 194.216(a) of this chapter for flights when the pilot is the sole manipulator of the controls of an experimental powered-lift for which the pilot is not rated, provided—
(1) The test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector is acting as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift in accordance with a letter of authorization issued by the Administrator; and
(2) The flight is conducted for the purpose of research and development or showing compliance with the regulations in this chapter in accordance with the experimental certificate issued to the powered-lift pursuant to § 21.191 of this chapter.
§ 194.219
Instructor pilots: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
(a)
General applicability.
An applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating who is an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift may satisfy the alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, provided—
(1) The flights are conducted in an experimental powered-lift at the manufacturer; and
(2) The applicant is authorized by the Administrator to act as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift.
(b)
Alternate aeronautical experience requirements.
Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement specified in § 61.123(f) of this chapter, an instructor pilot may meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section in lieu of the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.129(e)(3) and (4) of this chapter.
(1) An instructor pilot may meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section in lieu of the 20 hours of training with an authorized instructor required by § 61.129(e)(3) of this chapter.
(i) The instructor pilot provided the manufacturer's proposed training curriculum to a test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector in the experimental powered-lift, which includes 20 hours of training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(5) of this chapter; and
(ii) The instructor pilot receives a logbook or training record endorsement from a management official within the manufacturer's organization certifying that the instructor pilot provided the training specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) An instructor pilot may accomplish the practical test preparation requirements in § 61.129(e)(3)(iv) of this chapter with a pilot who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the experimental powered-lift.
(3) An instructor pilot may satisfy the aeronautical experience requirement in § 61.129(e)(4) of this chapter by logging at least 10 hours of solo flight time under an endorsement from another instructor pilot or performing the duties of pilot-in-command in an experimental powered-lift with one of the following individuals onboard (which may be credited towards the flight time requirement in §§ 61.129(e)(2), and (e)(2)(ii) of this chapter and 194.216(a))—
(i) A test pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift who is authorized by the Administrator to act as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift;
(ii) Another instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift who is authorized by the Administrator to act as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift; or
(iii) An FAA test pilot or aviation safety inspector.
(4) An instructor pilot may satisfy the alternate requirements in § 194.233 in lieu of the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.129(e)(3)(ii) and (iii) and (e)(4)(i) of this chapter.
(c)
Alternate logging requirement.
Notwithstanding the logging requirements in § 61.51(e)(3) of this chapter, an applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating may log pilot-in-command flight time for the purpose of satisfying the aeronautical experience requirements in §§ 61.129(e)(2)(ii) of this chapter and 194.216(a) for flights when the pilot is serving as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift for which the pilot is not rated, provided—
(1) The pilot is acting as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift in accordance with a letter of authorization issued by the Administrator; and
(2) The flight is conducted for the purpose of crew training in accordance with the experimental certificate issued to the powered-lift pursuant to § 21.191 of this chapter.
§ 194.221
Initial cadre of instructors: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
(a)
General applicability.
An applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating may satisfy the alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, provided—
(1) The applicant is authorized by the Administrator to serve as an initial check pilot, chief instructor, assistant chief instructor, or training center evaluator for the purpose of initiating training in a powered-lift under an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter, as appropriate; and
(2) The flights are conducted in type-certificated powered-lift at the manufacturer.
(b)
Alternate aeronautical experience requirements.
Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement specified in § 61.123(f) of this chapter, an applicant may meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section in lieu of the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.129(e)(3) and (4) of this chapter.
(1) An applicant may receive 20 hours of flight training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(5) of this chapter from an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift in lieu of an authorized instructor, provided—
(i) The training is conducted in accordance with the manufacturer's training curriculum in the powered-lift; and
(ii) The applicant receives a logbook or training record endorsement from the instructor pilot certifying that the test pilot satisfactorily completed the training curriculum specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) An applicant may accomplish the practical test preparation requirements in § 61.129(e)(3)(iv) of this chapter with a pilot who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift.
(3) An applicant may satisfy the aeronautical experience requirement in § 61.129(e)(4) of this chapter by logging at least 10 hours of solo flight time in a powered-lift under an endorsement from an instructor pilot or performing the duties of pilot-in-command in a powered-lift with a person onboard who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift (which may be credited towards the flight time requirement in § 61.129(e)(2) and (e)(2)(ii) of this chapter and 194.216(a)).
(4) An applicant may satisfy the alternate requirements in § 194.233 in lieu of the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.129(e)(3)(ii) and (iii) and (e)(4)(i) of this chapter.
(c)
Alternate logging requirements.
Notwithstanding the logging requirements in § 61.51(e)(1) of this chapter, an applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating may log up to 25 hours of pilot-in-command flight time for the purpose of satisfying the aeronautical experience requirements in §§ 61.129(e)(2)(ii) of this chapter and 194.216(a) for flights when the pilot is the sole manipulator of the controls of a powered-lift for which the pilot is not rated, provided—
(1) The applicant is manipulating the controls of the powered-lift with a person onboard who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer;
(2) The applicant is performing the duties of pilot-in-command; and
(3) The flight is conducted in accordance with the manufacturer's training curriculum for the powered-lift.
§ 194.223
Pilots receiving training under an approved training program: Alternate requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
(a)
General applicability.
An applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating may satisfy the alternate requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, provided the applicant is receiving training under an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter for the purpose of obtaining a powered-lift category rating.
(b)
Alternate aeronautical experience requirements.
An applicant may satisfy the alternate requirements in § 194.233 in lieu of the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.129(e)(3)(ii) and (iii) and (e)(4)(i) of this chapter.
(c)
Alternate logging requirement.
Notwithstanding the logging requirements in § 61.51(e)(1) of this chapter, an applicant for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating may log up to 25 hours of pilot-in-command time towards the aeronautical experience requirement in § 194.216(a) for flights when the applicant is the sole manipulator of the controls of a powered-lift for which the pilot is not rated, provided—
(1) The applicant is manipulating the controls of the powered-lift with an authorized instructor onboard;
(2) The applicant is performing the duties of pilot-in-command; and
(3) The flight is conducted in accordance with an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter.
§ 194.225
Test pilots, FAA test pilots, and aviation safety inspectors: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
(a)
General applicability.
An applicant for an instrument-powered-lift rating who is test pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift, an FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may satisfy the alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, provided—
(1) The flights are conducted in an experimental powered-lift at the manufacturer; and
(2) The applicant is authorized by the Administrator to act as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift.
(b)
Alternate aeronautical experience requirements.
A test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may meet the aeronautical experience requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section in lieu of the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.65(f)(2) of this chapter.
(1) Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement in § 61.65(a)(5) of this chapter, a test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may receive 15 hours of instrument training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.65(c) of this chapter from an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift in lieu of an authorized instructor, provided—
(i) The training is conducted in accordance with the manufacturer's proposed training curriculum in the experimental powered-lift; and
(ii) The test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector receives a logbook or training record endorsement from the instructor pilot certifying that the applicant satisfactorily completed the training curriculum specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) A test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may accomplish the practical test preparation requirements in § 61.65(f)(2)(i) of this chapter with an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the experimental powered-lift.
(3) A test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may accomplish the cross-country flight specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter for an instrument-powered-lift rating without an authorized instructor, provided the test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector—
(i) Completes the cross-country flight specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter with a pilot who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the experimental powered-lift; and
(ii) Obtains a logbook or training record endorsement from the instructor pilot certifying that the person completed the cross-country flight.
(4) A test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may satisfy the alternate requirements in § 194.235 in lieu of the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
(c)
Alternate logging requirement.
Notwithstanding the logging requirements in § 61.51(e)(1) of this chapter, a test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector may log pilot-in-command flight time for the purpose of satisfying the 10-hour cross-country requirement in § 61.65(f)(1) of this chapter for flights when the pilot is the sole manipulator of the controls of an experimental powered-lift for which the pilot is not rated, provided—
(1) The test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector is acting as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift in accordance with a letter of authorization issued by the Administrator; and
(2) The flight is conducted for the purpose of research and development or showing compliance with the regulations in this chapter in accordance with the experimental certificate issued to the powered-lift pursuant to § 21.191 of this chapter.
§ 194.227
Instructor pilots: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
(a)
General applicability.
An applicant for an instrument-powered-lift rating who is an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift may satisfy the alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, provided—
(1) The flights are conducted in an experimental powered-lift at the manufacturer; and
(2) The applicant is authorized by the Administrator to act as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift.
(b)
Alternate aeronautical experience requirements.
An instructor pilot may meet the aeronautical experience requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section in lieu of the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.65(f)(2) of this chapter.
(1) Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement in § 61.65(a)(5) of this chapter, an instructor pilot may meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section in lieu of the 15 hours of training with an authorized instructor required by § 61.65(f)(2) of this chapter.
(i) The instructor pilot provided the manufacturer's proposed training curriculum to a test pilot, FAA test pilot, or aviation safety inspector in the experimental powered-lift, which includes 15 hours of training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.65(c) of this chapter; and
(ii) The instructor pilot receives a logbook or training record endorsement from a management official within the manufacturer's organization certifying that the instructor pilot provided the training specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) An instructor pilot may accomplish the practical test preparation requirements in § 61.65(f)(2)(i) of this chapter with another pilot who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the experimental powered-lift.
(3) An instructor pilot may accomplish the cross-country flight specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter for an instrument-powered-lift rating without
an authorized instructor, provided the instructor pilot—
(i) Completes the cross-country flight specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter with another pilot who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the experimental powered-lift; and
(ii) Obtains a logbook or training record endorsement from the instructor pilot certifying that the person completed the cross-country flight.
(4) An instructor pilot may satisfy the alternate requirements in § 194.235 in lieu of the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
(c)
Alternate logging requirement.
Notwithstanding the logging requirements in § 61.51(e)(3) of this chapter, an instructor pilot may log pilot-in-command flight time for the purpose of satisfying the 10-hour cross-country requirement in § 61.65(f)(1) of this chapter for flights when the pilot is serving as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of an experimental powered-lift for which the pilot is not rated, provided the pilot—
(1) Is acting as pilot-in-command of the experimental powered-lift in accordance with a letter of authorization issued by the Administrator; and
(2) The flight is conducted for the purpose of crew training in accordance with the experimental certificate issued to the powered-lift pursuant to § 21.191 of this chapter.
§ 194.229
Initial cadre of instructors: Alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
(a)
General applicability.
An applicant for an instrument-powered-lift rating may satisfy the alternate aeronautical experience and logging requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, provided—
(1) The applicant is authorized by the Administrator to serve as an initial check pilot, chief instructor, assistant chief instructor, or training center evaluator for the purpose of initiating training in a powered-lift under an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter, as appropriate; and
(2) The flights are conducted in type-certificated powered-lift at the manufacturer.
(b)
Alternate aeronautical experience requirements.
Notwithstanding the instrument rating requirements of § 61.65 of this chapter, an applicant may meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section in lieu of the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.65(f)(2) of this chapter.
(1) Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement in § 61.65(a)(5) of this chapter, an applicant may receive 15 hours of instrument training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.65(c) of this chapter from an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of a powered-lift in lieu of an authorized instructor, provided—
(i) The training is conducted in accordance with the manufacturer's training curriculum in the powered-lift; and
(ii) The applicant receives a logbook or training record endorsement from the instructor pilot certifying that the applicant satisfactorily completed the training curriculum specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) An applicant may accomplish the practical test preparation requirements in § 61.65(f)(2)(i) of this chapter with a pilot who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift.
(3) An applicant may accomplish the cross-country flight specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter for an instrument-powered-lift rating without an authorized instructor, provided the applicant—
(i) Completes the cross-country flight specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter with a pilot who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift; and
(ii) Obtains a logbook or training record endorsement from the instructor pilot certifying that the person completed the cross-country flight.
(4) An applicant may satisfy the alternate requirements in § 194.235 in lieu of the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
(c)
Alternate logging requirement.
Notwithstanding the logging requirements in § 61.51(e)(1) of this chapter, an applicant for an instrument-powered-lift
rating may log pilot-in-command flight time for the purpose of satisfying the 10-hour cross-country requirement in § 61.65(f)(1) of this chapter for flights when the applicant is the sole manipulator of the controls of a powered-lift for which the pilot is not rated, provided—
(1) The applicant is manipulating the controls of the powered-lift with a person onboard who serves as an instructor pilot for the manufacturer;
(2) The applicant is performing the duties of pilot-in-command; and
(3) The flight is conducted in accordance with the manufacturer's training curriculum for the powered-lift.
§ 194.231
Pilots receiving training under an approved training program: Alternate requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
(a)
General applicability.
An applicant for an instrument-powered-lift rating may satisfy the alternate requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, provided the applicant is receiving training under an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter for the purpose of obtaining an instrument-powered-lift rating.
(b)
Alternate aeronautical experience requirements.
An applicant may satisfy the alternate requirements in § 194.235 in lieu of the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
(c)
Use of full flight simulators.
In addition to the permitted credit for use of a full flight simulator in § 61.65(h) of this chapter, an applicant for an instrument-powered-lift rating may credit a maximum of 4 hours toward the aeronautical experience requirement in § 61.65(f)(1) of this chapter that requires 10 hours of cross-country time in a powered-lift, provided—
(1) The aeronautical experience was obtained performing the duties of pilot-in-command during a simulated cross-country flight in a Level C or higher full flight simulator that represents the powered-lift category;
(2) The cross-country flight includes the performance of instrument procedures under simulated instrument conditions; and
(3) The sessions are conducted in accordance with an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter.
§ 194.233
Alternate means to satisfy the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement in § 61.123(f) of this chapter, an applicant who does not meet the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.129(e) of this chapter will be considered eligible for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) An applicant who does not meet the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.129(e)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this chapter will be considered eligible for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, provided the applicant has logged at least three cross-country flights consisting of—
(1) One 2-hour cross-country flight in a powered-lift in daytime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure;
(2) One 2-hour cross-country flight in a powered-lift in nighttime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(3) An additional cross-country flight with landings at a minimum of three points, with one segment consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure. Except for the original point of departure, this additional cross-country flight must include landings at different points than the cross-country flights specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b) An applicant who does not have the cross-country aeronautical experience specified in § 61.129(e)(4)(i) of this chapter will be considered eligible for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category, provided the applicant has logged at least two cross-
country flights with landings at a minimum of three points, with one segment consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure. Except for the original point of departure, the second cross-country flight must include landings at different points than the first cross-country flight.
§ 194.235
Alternate means to satisfy the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements for an instrument-powered-lift rating.
(a) An applicant who does not meet the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter will be considered eligible for an instrument-powered-lift rating, provided the applicant has logged instrument time that includes instrument flight training on cross-country flight procedures, including two cross-country flights in a powered-lift, provided each cross-country flight—
(1) Is conducted with either an authorized instructor or an instructor pilot; and
(2) Involves—
(i) A flight of 100 nautical miles along airways or by directed routing from an air traffic control facility;
(ii) An instrument approach at each airport; and
(iii) Three different kinds of approaches with the use of navigation systems.
(b) Notwithstanding the requirements in § 61.65(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter for the cross-country flight in a powered-lift, an applicant for an instrument-powered-lift rating is not required to file a flight plan and perform the cross-country flight under instrument flight rules, provided—
(1) The powered-lift is not certificated for instrument flight; and
(2) The applicant holds one of the following—
(i) An instrument-airplane rating;
(ii) An instrument-helicopter rating; or
(iii) An airline transport pilot certificate.
§ 194.237
Alternate means to satisfy the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements for a private pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating.
Notwithstanding the eligibility requirement in § 61.103(g) of this chapter, an applicant who does not meet the cross-country aeronautical experience requirements specified in § 61.109(e) of this chapter will be considered eligible for a private pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a)
Cross-country aeronautical experience at night.
An applicant who does not meet the cross-country aeronautical experience specified in § 61.109(e)(2)(i) of this chapter will be considered eligible for a private pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, provided the applicant has received 3 hours of night flight training that includes two cross-country flights that are each over 50 nautical miles total distance.
(b)
Solo cross-country aeronautical experience.
An applicant who does not meet the solo cross-country aeronautical experience specified in § 61.109(e)(5)(ii) of this chapter will be considered eligible for a private pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, provided the applicant has completed—
(1) One solo cross-country flight of 100 nautical miles total distance, with landings at three points, and one segment of the flight being a straight-line distance of more than 25 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations; and
(2) An additional solo cross-country flight in a powered-lift with landings at a minimum of three points, with one segment consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure. Except for the original point of departure, the additional cross-country flight must include landings at different points than the first cross-country flight.
§ 194.239
Alternate means to satisfy minimum curriculum content in certain appendices to part 141 of this chapter.
(a)
Flight training minimum curriculum content.
Notwithstanding the minimum curriculum requirements in § 141.55(a) of this chapter, a training course for which approval is requested is not required to consist of training on a task specified in an area of operation listed in the applicable appendix to part 141, provided—
(1) The training course for which approval is requested is for a powered-lift course;
(2) The powered-lift to be used in the course is not capable of performing the task specified in an area of operation listed in the applicable appendix to part 141; and
(3) The FAA has issued waiver authority for that task in accordance with § 194.207(b).
(b)
Cross-country minimum curriculum content.
Notwithstanding the minimum curriculum requirements in § 141.55(a) of this chapter, a training course for which approval is requested is not required to meet the minimum curriculum content specified in appendices B, C, and D to part 141, provided—
(1) The training course for which approval is requested is for a powered-lift course.
(2) The minimum curriculum content that is not met may consist of the training specified in—
(i) Appendix B, paragraph 4.(b)(5)(ii)(A);
(ii) Appendix B, paragraph 5.(e)(1);
(iii) Appendix C, paragraph 4.(c)(3)(ii);
(iv) Appendix D, paragraph 4.(b)(5)(ii) and (iii);
(v) Appendix D, paragraph 5.(e)(2); or
(vi) Appendix M, paragraphs 4.(b)(4)(ii)(A), 4.(b)(4)(iii)(A), and 5.(d)(1).
(3) For each provision of training specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section that is not met, the training course must include an additional cross-country flight consistent with the requirements of §§ 194.233, 194.235, and 194.237.
§ 194.241
Alternate qualification requirements for chief instructors, assistant chief instructors, and check instructors.
(a) Notwithstanding the qualification requirements in §§ 141.35(a)(1), 141.36(a)(1), and 141.37(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter, for a course of training under part 141 of this chapter that uses a powered-lift, a person seeking designation as a chief instructor, an assistant chief instructor, or a check instructor for checks and tests that relate to flight training must meet the following requirements—
(1) Hold a commercial pilot certificate or an airline transport pilot certificate with the following ratings—
(i) A powered-lift category rating;
(ii) A type rating for the powered-lift used in the course; and
(iii) An instrument-powered-lift rating or an airline transport pilot certificate with instrument privileges.
(2) Hold a current flight instructor certificate with the following ratings—
(i) A powered-lift category rating; and
(ii) An instrument-powered-lift rating, if an instrument rating is required for the course.
(b) Notwithstanding the qualification requirements in § 141.37(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter, for a course of training under part 141 of this chapter that uses a powered-lift, a person seeking designation as a check instructor for checks and tests that relate to ground training must hold a current flight instructor certificate with a powered-lift category rating or a ground instructor rating appropriate for the course.
§ 194.243
Pilot certification through completion of training, testing, and checking under part 135 of this chapter.
(a)
Part 135 airman certification training program.
(1) Subject to the requirements in subpart H to part 135 of this chapter, a certificate holder under part 119 of this chapter authorized to conduct part 135 operations may obtain approval under § 135.325 of this chapter to establish and implement a training curriculum to satisfy the following:
(i) Ground training, flight training, and aeronautical experience requirements in § 61.65 of this chapter and
§ 194.231 for the addition of an instrument-powered-lift rating to a commercial pilot certificate;
(ii) Ground training, flight training, and aeronautical experience requirements in § 61.63(b) of this chapter for the addition of an aircraft category rating to a commercial pilot certificate; and
(iii) Ground and flight training requirements in § 61.63(d) of this chapter to add a type rating to a commercial pilot certificate.
(2) No certificate holder may use a person, nor may any person serve, as an instructor in a training curriculum approved to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section unless, in addition to being qualified under §§ 135.338 and 135.340 of this chapter, the person holds a flight instructor certificate with a powered-lift category rating and instrument-powered-lift rating issued under part 61 of this chapter.
(3) A certificate holder may train a pilot in a training curriculum approved to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if the pilot is employed by the certificate holder under part 119 of this chapter and holds at least the certificates and ratings set forth by § 194.215(a).
(4) In addition to § 135.327 of this chapter, any curriculum approved under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section must include the applicable aeronautical knowledge areas, areas of operation, and flight training required by part 61 of this chapter. If an alternative requirement is provided in this part, that alternative may be used.
(b)
Part 135 airman certification and checking.
(1) A pilot who is employed by a certificate holder under part 119 of this chapter authorized to conduct operations under part 135 who completes the approved curricula in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section may apply to add a powered-lift category rating concurrently with a powered-lift instrument rating and an initial powered-lift type rating to a commercial pilot certificate if the person meets the following requirements:
(i) Meets the requirements of §§ 61.63(b) and 61.65(f) of this chapter, or if an alternative requirement is provided in this part, that alternative may be used;
(ii) Has a training record endorsement from the certificate holder certifying that the pilot satisfactorily completed the applicable ground and flight training curricula in the approved part 135 airman certification training program; and
(iii) Successfully completes the written or oral testing under § 135.293(a)(2) and (3) of this chapter, a competency check under § 135.293(b) of this chapter, and an instrument proficiency check under § 135.297 of this chapter provided the following conditions are met:
(A) The competency check includes the maneuvers and procedures required for the issuance of a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, for the issuance of an instrument-powered-lift rating and for the issuance of a powered-lift type rating.
(B) The instrument proficiency check meets the requirements of § 135.297 of this chapter as applicable to a pilot in command (PIC) holding a commercial pilot certificate except that the instrument approaches to be included in the check must include all instrument approaches required for the issuance of an instrument-powered-lift rating and not only those for which the pilot is to be authorized to perform in part 135 operations.
(2) Sections 135.293(d) and 135.301(b) of this chapter are not applicable to the competency check and instrument proficiency check required by paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(3) A pilot who meets paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be issued a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, an instrument-powered-lift rating, and a powered-lift type rating.
(4) An applicant who fails a check under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may reapply for the check only after the applicant has received:
(i) The necessary training from an authorized instructor or instructor pilot who has determined that the applicant is proficient to pass the test; and
(ii) An endorsement from an authorized instructor or instructor pilot who gave the applicant the additional training.
(c)
Part 135 certification testing and checking personnel.
The testing, competency checks, and instrument proficiency checks required by paragraph (b) of this section must be administered by one of the following:
(1) An FAA Aviation Safety Inspector.
(2) An Aircrew Program Designee who is authorized to perform competency checks and instrument proficiency checks for the certificate holder whose approved ground and flight training curricula has been satisfactorily completed by the pilot applicant.
(3) A Training Center Evaluator with appropriate certification authority who is also authorized to perform competency checks and instrument proficiency checks for the certificate holder whose approved ground and flight training curricula has been satisfactorily completed by the pilot applicant.
§ 194.245
Pilot qualification and program management requirements to operate powered-lift under subpart K to part 91 of this chapter.
(a) Section 91.1055(a) of this chapter applies to powered-lift operating under subpart K to part 91.
(b) Reference to class of aircraft in § 91.1055(b)(2) of this chapter is inapplicable when a powered-lift is used for the operation under subpart K to part 91.
§ 194.247
Pilot qualification requirements to operate powered-lift under part 135 of this chapter.
(a) Unless otherwise directed in this chapter, powered-lift must continue to comply with rules applicable to aircraft specified in part 135.
(b) To comply with § 135.3 of this chapter, each certificate holder that conducts commuter operations under part 135 with powered-lift for which two pilots are required by the type certificate must:
(1) Comply with subpart Y to part 121 of this chapter instead of the requirements of subparts G and H to part 135; and
(2) Include in initial ground training for pilots in command and upgrade ground training, instruction and facilitated discussion on the following:
(i) Leadership and command; and
(ii) Mentoring, including techniques for instilling and reinforcing the highest standards of technical performance, airmanship, and professionalism in newly hired pilots.
(3) Include the training required by paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section in recurrent ground training for pilots in command every 36 calendar months.
(4) Include in initial flight training for pilots in command and upgrade flight training, sufficient scenario-based training incorporating crew resource management and leadership and command skills, to ensure the pilot's proficiency as pilot in command.
(c) In lieu of compliance with the operating experience requirements listed in § 135.244(a)(1) through (4) of this chapter, no certificate holder may use a person, nor may any person serve, as pilot in command of a powered-lift unless that person possesses 20 hours of operating experience in each make and basic model of powered-lift to be flown.
(d) To comply with § 135.345 of this chapter, initial, transition, and upgrade ground training for powered-lift pilots must include instruction in § 135.345(b)(6)(iv) of this chapter, as applicable.
§ 194.249
References to class in parts 135, 141, and 142 of this chapter.
(a) References to class of aircraft in §§ 135.4(b)(2), 135.247(a)(1) and (2), and 135.603 of this chapter are inapplicable when a powered-lift is used for the operation under part 135.
(b) Notwithstanding the course content contained in the appendices to part 141, references to a class rating or a class of aircraft in those appendices is inapplicable when a powered-lift is used for the course of training.
(c) References to class of aircraft in §§ 142.11(d)(2)(ii), 142.49(c)(3)(iii), 142.53(b)(1), and 142.65(b)(1) of this chapter are inapplicable when a powered-lift or flight simulation training device representing a powered-lift is used for the operation under part 142.
§ 194.251
Alternate means to satisfy minimum curriculum content in training courses under part 142 of this chapter.
A training course for which approval is requested is not required to consist of training on a task specified in an area of operation if the powered-lift is not capable of performing the task, provided the FAA has issued waiver authority for that task in accordance with § 194.207(b).
§ 194.253
Alternate requirements for powered-lift without fully functional dual controls used in flight training.
(a)
Powered-lift equipped with an instantly accessible single, functioning control.
(1) A person may utilize the alternate requirement provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section only if the applicant holds at least the certificates and ratings set forth by § 194.215(a) and instruction is provided by:
(i) An instructor pilot for the manufacturer of the powered-lift under the manufacturer's proposed training curriculum, or
(ii) A flight instructor under an approved training curriculum under part 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter, as applicable.
(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of §§ 61.195(g) and 91.109(a) of this chapter, a person may operate a powered-lift that is being used for flight training without fully functioning dual controls provided—
(i) The powered-lift is equipped with a single functioning flight control that is instantly accessible by both the applicant and the instructor;
(ii) The single functioning flight control meets the certification standards for both pilot stations; and
(iii) The instructor has determined that the flight can be conducted safely.
(b)
Full flight simulator training for powered-lift with single functioning controls and a single pilot station.
A person may apply for a powered-lift category rating, an instrument-powered-lift rating, and a powered-lift type rating concurrently for a powered-lift with single controls and a single pilot station under an approved part 135, 141, or 142 training program by meeting the requirements set forth in appendix A to this part.
(c)
Deviation authority.
Notwithstanding the requirements of §§ 61.195(g) and 91.109 of this chapter, the Administrator may authorize a deviation to operate a powered-lift that is being used for flight training in an approved training program under part 135, 141, or 142 without fully functioning dual controls provided:
(1) The certificate holder demonstrates in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator that—
(i) The person providing the flight training and the PIC observing any applicable supervised operating experience can take immediate corrective action and full control of the powered-lift;
(ii) The flight training and any applicable supervised operating experience can be effectively conducted in the powered-lift; and
(2) The Administrator determines that the alternate flight training and applicable supervised operating experience set forth by paragraph (c)(1) of this section will not adversely affect safety.
(3) The FAA may cancel or amend a letter of deviation authority at any time if the Administrator determines that the requirements of this section are not met or if such action is necessary in the interest of safety.
§ 194.255
Alternate requirements for powered-lift without fully functioning dual controls used in supervised operating experience when adding a type rating.
(a) Notwithstanding § 61.64(f) of this chapter, a person who holds a powered-lift category, instrument-powered-lift rating, and powered-lift type rating and seeks an additional type rating for a powered-lift with a single functioning control and a single pilot station in accordance with §§ 61.63(d) and 61.64(a) of this chapter, and does not meet requirements of § 61.64(e), will receive a limitation on the certificate restricting the person operating the powered-lift type from carrying any person or property on the aircraft, other than necessary for the purpose of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The limitation described in paragraph (a) of this section may be removed from the rating if the person complies with the following:
(1) Performs 25 hours of flight time in the type of powered-lift for which the limitation applies under the observation of a fully rated pilot without limitations for the aircraft, maintaining full communication with the observing pilot,
(2) Logs each flight and the observing pilot attests in writing to each flight, and
(3) Presents evidence of the supervised operating experience to any examiner or Flight Standards office to have the limitation removed.
(c) The observing pilot must have unobstructed visual sight of the controls and instrumentation.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Persons Operating Powered-lift
§ 194.301
Applicability.
Unless otherwise specified by this part, persons operating powered-lift must continue to comply with rules applicable to all aircraft in parts 91, 135, and 136 of this chapter, as applicable to the operation. In addition, any sections or paragraphs within sections under parts 91 and 135 that refer to specific categories of aircraft and that are not referenced in the SFAR table to § 194.302 or § 194.306, do not apply to powered-lift.
§ 194.302
Provisions under part 91 of this chapter applicable to powered-lift.
No person may operate a powered-lift under part 91 of this chapter unless that person complies with the regulations listed in the first column of table 1 to this section, notwithstanding their applicability to airplanes, helicopters, or rotorcraft, subject to the applicability provisions in the second column, and any additional requirements or clarification specified in the third column:
Table 1 to § 194.302
Regulation
Applicability
Additional requirements or clarification
Part 91, Subpart A—General
(a) Section 91.9 (a) and (b) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
The requirement for an approved Aircraft Flight Manual is set forth in the airworthiness criteria established under § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
Part 91, Subpart B—Flight Rules
(b) Section 91.103(b)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift for which an approved Aircraft Flight Manual containing takeoff and landing distance data is required
(c) Section 91.107(a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
The exception under § 91.107(a)(3) of this chapter for seaplane and float equipped rotorcraft operations during movement on the surface applies to persons pushing off a powered-lift from the dock or persons mooring the powered-lift at the dock.
(d) Section 91.119(d) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode
Under § 91.119(d) of this chapter, a powered-lift may be operated in vertical-lift flight mode at less than the minimums prescribed in § 91.119(b) or (c) of this chapter, provided each person operating the powered-lift complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for powered-lift by the FAA.
(e) Section 91.126(b)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in wing-borne flight mode
If the powered-lift is operating in vertical-lift flight mode, see paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) Section 91.126(b)(2) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode
If the powered-lift is operating in wing-borne flight mode, see paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) Section 91.129(e)(1) and (2), (g)(2), and (h) of this chapter
Applies to large or turbine-powered powered-lift
(h) Section 91.129(e)(3) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift preparing to land in wing-borne flight mode
(i) Section 91.129(f)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in wing-borne flight mode
(1) If the powered-lift is operating in vertical-lift flight mode, see paragraph (j) of this section.
(2) Section 91.129(f)(1) of this chapter does not apply when the operator of a powered-lift is conducting a circling approach under part 97 of this chapter or when otherwise requested by air traffic control (ATC).
(j) Section 91.129(f)(2) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode
(1) If the powered-lift is operating in wing-borne flight mode, see paragraph (i) of this section.
(2) Section 91.129(f)(2) does not apply when the operator of a powered-lift is conducting a circling approach under part 97 of this chapter or when otherwise requested by ATC.
(k) Section 91.131(a)(2) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift.
(l) Section 91.151(a) and (b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift
(1) A powered-lift with the performance capability, as outlined in the Aircraft Flight Manual, to conduct a landing in the vertical-lift flight mode along the entire route of flight may use the VFR fuel requirements outlined in § 91.151(b) of this chapter.
(2) Powered-lift unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (l)(1) of this section must use the rule requirements outlined in § 91.151(a) of this chapter.
(m) Section 91.155(a) of this chapter
The helicopter provision under § 91.155(a) of this chapter applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode and at a speed that allows the pilot to see any other traffic or obstructions in time to avoid a collision
(1) Except as provided in § 91.155(b) of this chapter, powered-lift that meet the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section may operate under the helicopter VFR visibility minimums outlined under § 91.155(a) of this chapter in class G airspace.
(2) Powered-lift unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section must use the VFR visibility minimums in § 91.155(a) of this chapter for aircraft other than helicopters.
(n) Section 91.155(b)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in the vertical-lift flight mode and at a speed that allows the pilot to see any other traffic or obstructions in time to avoid a collision
(1) Powered-lift that meet the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section may use the VFR visibility minimums outlined in § 91.155(b)(1) of this chapter in Class G airspace.
(2) Powered-lift unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section must use the visibility minimums outlined in § 91.155(b)(2) of this chapter.
(o) Section 91.155(b)(2) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift
Powered-lift operating in Class G airspace that cannot meet the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section must use the VFR visibility minimums outlined under § 91.155(b)(2) of this chapter.
(p) Section 91.157(b)(3), (b)(4), and (c) of this chapter
The helicopter exceptions outlined in § 91.157(b)(3), (b)(4), and (c) of this chapter apply to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode when those aircraft are operated at a speed that allows the pilot to see any other traffic or obstructions in time to avoid a collision
(q) Section 91.167(a)(3) and (b)(2)(ii) of this chapter
The helicopter provisions in § 91.167(a)(3) and (b)(2)(ii) of this chapter apply to powered-lift authorized to conduct copter procedures and that have the performance capability for the entire flight to conduct a landing in the vertical-lift flight mode, as outlined in the Aircraft Flight Manual
(1) Powered-lift that meet the requirements of paragraph (q) of this section may use the helicopter provisions under § 91.167(a)(3) and (b)(2)(ii) of this chapter.
(2) Powered-lift that are unable to meet the requirements outlined in paragraph (q) of this section must use the 45-minute fuel requirement outlined in § 91.167(a)(3) of this chapter and the aircraft requirement outlined in § 91.167(b)(2)(i) of this chapter.
(r) Section 91.169(b)(2)(ii) and (c)(1)(ii) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift authorized to conduct copter procedures and that have the performance capability to land in the vertical-lift flight mode, as outlined in the Aircraft Flight Manual
(1) Powered-lift that meet the requirements of paragraph (r) of this section may use the helicopter provisions specified in § 91.169(b)(2)(ii) and (c)(1)(ii) of this chapter.
(2) Powered-lift that are unable to meet the requirements outlined in paragraph (r) of this section must use the requirements for aircraft other than helicopters under § 91.169(b)(2)(i) and (c)(1)(i) of this chapter.
(s) Section 91.175(f)(2)(iii) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with two engines or less, that takeoff in vertical-lift flight mode, and that are authorized to conduct copter procedures
Powered-lift with two engines or less that are unable to meet the requirements outlined in this paragraph (s) must comply with § 91.175(f)(2)(i) of this chapter.
(t) Section 91.175(f)(4)(i) of this chapter
Applies to part 135 of this chapter powered-lift operators required to comply with subpart I to part 135 of this chapter
Part 91, Subpart C—Equipment, Instrument, and Certificate Requirements
(u) Section 91.205(b)(11) and (14) of this chapter
Applies to small powered-lift
Position and anti-collision lights must meet § 23.2530(b) of this chapter.
(v) Section 91.205(d)(3)(i) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift certified for instrument flight rules operations
(w) Section 91.207 of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift.
(x) Section 91.219 of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift.
(y) Section 91.223(a) and (c) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift configured with 6 or more passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat
Instead of terrain awareness and warning system (TAWS), powered-lift must be equipped with a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system (HTAWS) that meets the requirements in TSO-C194 and Section 2 of RTCA DO-309 (incorporated by reference, see § 194.109) or a FAA-approved TAWS A/HTAWS hybrid system.
Part 91, Subpart D—Special Flight Operations
(z) Section 91.313(g) of this chapter
Applies to restricted category small powered-lift.
Part 91, Subpart E—Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, and Alterations
(aa) Section 91.409(e) through (h) of this chapter
Applies to technically-advanced powered-lift which are powered-lift equipped with an electronically advanced system in which the pilot interfaces with a multi-computer system with increasing levels of automation in order to aviate, navigate, or communicate
(1) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a technically advanced powered-lift must be equipped with an electronically advanced multi-computer system that includes one or more of the following installed components:
(i) An electronic Primary Flight Display (PFD) that includes, at a minimum, an airspeed indicator, turn coordinator, attitude indicator, heading indicator, altimeter, and vertical speed indicator;
(ii) An electronic Multifunction Display (MFD) that includes, at a minimum, a moving map using Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation with the aircraft position displayed;
(iii) A multi-axis autopilot integrated with the navigation and heading guidance system; and
(iv) Aircraft design with advanced fly-by-wire-flight control system that utilizes electronically operated controls with no direct mechanical link from the pilot to the control surfaces.
(2) The display elements described in paragraphs (aa)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must be continuously visible.
(bb) Section 91.411 of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift.
Part 91, Subpart F—Large and Turbine-Powered Multiengine Airplanes and Fractional Ownership Program Aircraft
(cc) Section 91.501 of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift regardless of powerplant, as well as powered-lift operating under subpart K to part 91 of this chapter, and subject to any limitations outlined in this part
Any sections or paragraphs within sections to subpart F to part 91 of this chapter that refer to a specific category of aircraft and that are not referenced in this table or the table to § 194.306, do not apply to powered-lift.
(dd) Section 91.503 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
Powered-lift may comply with § 91.503(a)(5) of this chapter by having the appropriate engine or multiple-engines inoperative climb performance data available at the pilot station of the aircraft.
(ee) Section 91.505 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(ff) Section 91.507 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(gg) Section 91.509 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(1) Powered-lift operating over water under § 91.509(a) or (b) of this chapter may use either the nearest shore or the nearest off-shore heliport structure by which to measure the nautical mile limits provided in § 91.509(a) and (b).
(2) The lifeline required by § 91.509(b)(5) of this chapter must be stored in accordance with § 25.1411(g) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(hh) Section 91.511 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
Powered-lift operating over water under § 91.511(a) of this chapter may use either the nearest shore or the nearest off-shore heliport structure by which to measure the nautical mile limits provided in § 91.511(a).
(ii) Section 91.513 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(jj) Section 91.515 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(kk) Section 91.517 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(ll) Section 91.519 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(mm) Section 91.521 of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
The safety belt and shoulder harness required by § 91.521 of this chapter must comply with § 25.785 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(nn) Section 91.523 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift having a seating capacity of more than 19 passengers subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
The carry-on baggage required by § 91.523 of this chapter must be stowed such that it can withstand the inertia forces specified in § 25.561(b)(3) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(oo) Section 91.525 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(pp) Section 91.527(a) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(1) Powered-lift critical surfaces, as outlined in the Aircraft Flight Manual for that aircraft, must also be determined to be free of frost, ice, or snow.
(2) Powered-lift critical surfaces under this section are determined by the manufacturer.
(qq) Section 91.527(b)(2) and (3) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
Instead of § 91.527(b)(2) and (3) of this chapter, to operate instrument flight rules (IFR) into known light or moderate icing conditions or VFR into known light or moderate icing conditions, an operator must comply with § 194.306(xx).
(rr) Section 91.527(c) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
No pilot may fly a powered-lift into known or forecast severe icing conditions.
(ss) Section 91.531(a)(1) and (2), (b), and (c) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section and that meet the additional requirements as set forth in each paragraph of § 91.531 of this chapter; § 91.531(b)(2) of this chapter applies to large powered-lift that meet the additional requirements set forth in that paragraph
(tt) Section 91.533 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
Part 91, Subpart G—Additional Equipment and Operating Requirements for Large and Transport Category Aircraft
(uu) Section 91.603 of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
The aural speed warning device required by § 91.603 of this chapter must comply with § 25.1303(c)(1) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(vv) Section 91.605(b)(1) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the takeoff weight performance information.
(ww) Section 91.605(b)(2) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the landing performance information.
(xx) Section 91.605(b)(3), (b)(4)(ii), and (c) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift that execute takeoff operations using wing-borne lift and that have takeoff performance information contained in the Aircraft Flight Manual
(yy) Section 91.609(c), (d), (e), (i), and (j) of this chapter
Paragraph (c) of § 91.609 of this chapter applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seats, of 10 or more seats; § 91.609(e) of this chapter applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of six or more seats and for which two pilots are required by type certification or operating rule; § 91.609(d) of this chapter applies to powered-lift required by that section to have a flight data recorder; and § 91.609(i) and (j) of this chapter apply to powered-lift required by that section to have a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder
(1) Operators of powered-lift having a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of 10 or more must comply with § 194.310 or § 194.311 in lieu of the appendices referenced in § 91.609(c)(1) of this chapter.
(2) For compliance with § 91.609(c)(3), (e)(1), and (i) of this chapter, powered-lift must comply with the certification provisions listed in those paragraphs or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(3) Under § 91.609(d) of this chapter, the flight recorder must operate continuously from the earlier of when the powered-lift begins the takeoff roll or begins lift-off until the later of when the powered-lift completes the landing roll or lands at its destination.
(zz) Section 91.613(b)(2) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
The thermal/acoustic installation materials required by § 91.613(b)(2) of this chapter must meet the requirements of § 25.856 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
Part 91, Subpart K—Fractional Ownership Operations
(aaa) Section 91.1037 of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart K to part 91 of this chapter that are certificated to conduct landing operations in wing-borne flight mode as indicated in the Aircraft Flight Manual
If a powered-lift operator is required to comply with this section, the operator must also comply with § 91.1025(o)(7) of this chapter.
(bbb) Section 91.1041(b) and (d) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart K to part 91 of this chapter
(ccc) Section 91.1045(a) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart K to part 91 of this chapter with a passenger-seat configuration of more than 30 seats or a payload capacity of more than 7,500 pounds
Under § 91.1045(a)(3) of this chapter, instead of TAWS, powered-lift must be equipped with a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system (HTAWS) that meets the requirements in TSO-C194 and Section 2 of RTCA DO-309 (incorporated by reference, see § 194.109) or a FAA-approved TAWS A/HTAWS hybrid system.
(ddd) Section 91.1045(b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart K to part 91 of this chapter with a passenger-seat configuration of 30 seats or fewer, excluding each crewmember, and a payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or less
Compliance with § 91.1045(b)(3) of this chapter requires a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system that complies with § 194.306(s).
Table 1 to § 194.302
Regulation
Applicability
Additional requirements or clarification
Part 91, Subpart A—General
(a) Section 91.9 (a) and (b) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
The requirement for an approved Aircraft Flight Manual is set forth in the airworthiness criteria established under § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
Part 91, Subpart B—Flight Rules
(b) Section 91.103(b)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift for which an approved Aircraft Flight Manual containing takeoff and landing distance data is required
(c) Section 91.107(a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
The exception under § 91.107(a)(3) of this chapter for seaplane and float equipped rotorcraft operations during movement on the surface applies to persons pushing off a powered-lift from the dock or persons mooring the powered-lift at the dock.
(d) Section 91.119(d) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode
Under § 91.119(d) of this chapter, a powered-lift may be operated in vertical-lift flight mode at less than the minimums prescribed in § 91.119(b) or (c) of this chapter, provided each person operating the powered-lift complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for powered-lift by the FAA.
(e) Section 91.126(b)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in wing-borne flight mode
If the powered-lift is operating in vertical-lift flight mode, see paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) Section 91.126(b)(2) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode
If the powered-lift is operating in wing-borne flight mode, see paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) Section 91.129(e)(1) and (2), (g)(2), and (h) of this chapter
Applies to large or turbine-powered powered-lift.
(h) Section 91.129(e)(3) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift preparing to land in wing-borne flight mode
(i) Section 91.129(f)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in wing-borne flight mode
(1) If the powered-lift is operating in vertical-lift flight mode, see paragraph (j) of this section.
(2) Section 91.129(f)(1) does not apply when the operator of a powered-lift is conducting a circling approach under part 97 of this chapter or when otherwise requested by air traffic control (ATC).
(j) Section 91.129(f)(2) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode
(1) If the powered-lift is operating in wing-borne flight mode, see paragraph (i) of this section.
(2) Section 91.129(f)(2) does not apply when the operator of a powered-lift is conducting a circling approach under part 97 of this chapter or when otherwise requested by ATC.
(k) Section 91.131(a)(2) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift.
(l) Section 91.151(a) and (b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift
(1) A powered-lift with the performance capability, as outlined in the Aircraft Flight Manual, to conduct a landing in the vertical-lift flight mode along the entire route of flight may use the VFR fuel requirements outlined in § 91.151(b).
(2) Powered-lift unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (l)(1) of this section must use the rule requirements outlined in § 91.151(a).
(m) Section 91.155(a) of this chapter
The helicopter provision under § 91.155(a) applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode and at a speed that allows the pilot to see any other traffic or obstructions in time to avoid a collision
(1) Except as provided in § 91.155(b), powered-lift that meet the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section may operate under the helicopter VFR visibility minimums outlined under § 91.155(a) in class G airspace.
(2) Powered-lift unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section must use the VFR visibility minimums in § 91.155(a) for aircraft other than helicopters.
(n) Section 91.155(b)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in the vertical-lift flight mode and at a speed that allows the pilot to see any other traffic or obstructions in time to avoid a collision
(1) Powered-lift that meet the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section may use the VFR visibility minimums outlined in § 91.155(b)(1) in Class G airspace.
(2) Powered-lift unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section must use the visibility minimums outlined in § 91.155(b)(2).
(o) Section 91.155(b)(2) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift
Powered-lift operating in Class G airspace that cannot meet the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section must use the VFR visibility minimums outlined under § 91.155(b)(2).
(p) Section 91.157(b)(3), (b)(4), and (c) of this chapter
The helicopter exceptions outlined in § 91.157(b)(3), (b)(4), and (c) apply to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode when those aircraft are operated at a speed that allows the pilot to see any other traffic or obstructions in time to avoid a collision
(q) Section 91.167(a)(3) and (b)(2)(ii) of this chapter
The helicopter provisions in § 91.167(a)(3) and (b)(2)(ii) apply to powered-lift authorized to conduct copter procedures and that have the performance capability for the entire flight to conduct a landing in the vertical-lift flight mode, as outlined in the Aircraft Flight Manual
(1) Powered-lift that meet the requirements of paragraph (q) of this section may use the helicopter provisions under § 91.167(a)(3) and 91.167(b)(2)(ii).
(2) Powered-lift that are unable to meet the requirements outlined in paragraph (q) of this section must use the 45-minute fuel requirement outlined in § 91.167(a)(3) and the aircraft requirement outlined in § 91.167(b)(2)(i).
(r) Section 91.169(b)(2)(ii) and (c)(1)(ii) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift authorized to conduct copter procedures and that have the performance capability to land in the vertical-lift flight mode, as outlined in the Aircraft Flight Manual
(1) Powered-lift that meet the requirements of paragraph (r) of this section may use the helicopter provisions specified in § 91.169(b)(2)(ii) and § 91.169(c)(1)(ii).
(2) Powered-lift that are unable to meet the requirements outlined in paragraph (r) of this section must use the requirements for aircraft other than helicopters under § 91.169(b)(2)(i) and (c)(1)(i).
(s) Section 91.175(f)(2)(iii) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with two engines or less, that takeoff in vertical-lift flight mode, and that are authorized to conduct copter procedures
Powered-lift with two engines or less that are unable to meet the requirements outlined in this paragraph (s) must comply with § 91.175(f)(2)(i).
(t) Section 91.175(f)(4)(i) of this chapter
Applies to part 135 powered-lift operators required to comply with subpart I to part 135 of this chapter
Part 91, Subpart C—Equipment, Instrument, and Certificate Requirements
(u) Section 91.205(b)(11) and (14)
Applies to small powered-lift
Position and anti-collision lights must meet § 23.2530(b) of this chapter.
(v) Section 91.205(d)(3)(i)
Applies to powered-lift certified for instrument flight rules operations
(w) Section 91.207
Applies to all powered-lift.
(x) Section 91.219
Applies to all powered-lift.
(y) Section 91.223(a) and (c)
Applies to powered-lift configured with 6 or more passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat
Instead of terrain awareness and warning system (TAWS), powered-lift must be equipped with a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system (HTAWS) that meets the requirements in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C194 and Section 2 of RTCA DO-309 (incorporated by reference, see § 194.109) or a FAA-approved TAWS A/HTAWS hybrid system.
Part 91, Subpart D—Special Flight Operations
(z) Section 91.313(g)
Applies to restricted category small powered-lift.
Part 91, Subpart E—Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, and Alterations
(aa) Section 91.409(e) through (h)
Applies to technically-advanced powered-lift which are powered-lift equipped with an electronically advanced system in which the pilot interfaces with a multi-computer system with increasing levels of automation in order to aviate, navigate, or communicate
(1) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a technically advanced powered-lift must be equipped with an electronically advanced multi-computer system that includes one or more of the following installed components:
(i) An electronic Primary Flight Display (PFD) that includes, at a minimum, an airspeed indicator, turn coordinator, attitude indicator, heading indicator, altimeter, and vertical speed indicator;
(ii) An electronic Multifunction Display (MFD) that includes, at a minimum, a moving map using Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation with the aircraft position displayed;
(iii) A multi-axis autopilot integrated with the navigation and heading guidance system; and
(iv) Aircraft design with advanced fly-by-wire-flight control system that utilizes electronically operated controls with no direct mechanical link from the pilot to the control surfaces.
(2) The display elements described in paragraphs (aa)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must be continuously visible.
(bb) Section 91.411
Applies to all powered-lift
Part 91, Subpart F—Large and Turbine-Powered Multiengine Airplanes and Fractional Ownership Program Aircraft
(cc) Section 91.501
Applies to large powered-lift regardless of powerplant, as well as powered-lift operating under subpart K to part 91, and subject to any limitations outlined in this SFAR
Any sections or paragraphs within sections to subpart F to part 91 that refer to a specific category of aircraft and that are not referenced in the SFAR tables to this section or § 194.306, do not apply to powered-lift.
(dd) Section 91.503
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
Powered-lift may comply with § 91.503(a)(5) by having the appropriate engine or multiple-engines inoperative climb performance data available at the pilot station of the aircraft.
(ee) Section 91.505
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(ff) Section 91.507
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(gg) Section 91.509
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(1) Powered-lift operating over water under § 91.509(a) or (b) may use either the nearest shore or the nearest off-shore heliport structure by which to measure the nautical mile limits provided in § 91.509(a) and (b).
(2) The lifeline required by § 91.509(b)(5) must be stored in accordance with § 25.1411(g) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(hh) Section 91.511
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
Powered-lift operating over water under § 91.511(a) may use either the nearest shore or the nearest off-shore heliport structure by which to measure the nautical mile limits provided in § 91.511(a).
(ii) Section 91.513
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(jj) Section 91.515
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(kk) Section 91.517
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(ll) Section 91.519
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(mm) Section 91.521
Applies to large powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
The safety belt and shoulder harness required by § 91.521 must comply with § 25.785 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(nn) Section 91.523
Applies to powered-lift having a seating capacity of more than 19 passengers subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
The carry-on baggage required by § 91.523 must be stowed such that it can withstand the inertia forces specified in § 25.561(b)(3) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(oo) Section 91.525
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(pp) Section 91.527(a)
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91m as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
(1) Powered-lift critical surfaces, as outlined in the Aircraft Flight Manual for that aircraft, must also be determined to be free of frost, ice, or snow.
(2) Powered-lift critical surfaces under this section are determined by the manufacturer.
(qq) Section 91.527(b)(2) and (3)
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
Instead of § 91.527(b)(2) and (3), to operate instrument flight rules (IFR) into known light or moderate icing conditions or VFR into known light or moderate icing conditions, an operator must comply with § 194.306(xx).
(rr) Section 91.527(c)
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
No pilot may fly a powered-lift into known or forecast severe icing conditions.
(ss) Section 91.531(a)(1) and (2), (b), and (c)
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section and that meet the additional requirements as set forth in each paragraph of § 91.531. Section 91.531(b)(2) applies to large powered-lift that meet the additional requirements set forth in that paragraph
(tt) Section 91.533
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart F to part 91 as specified in paragraph (cc) of this section
Part 91, Subpart G—Additional Equipment and Operating Requirements for Large and Transport Category Aircraft
(uu) Section 91.603
Applies to large powered-lift
The aural speed warning device required by § 91.603 must comply with § 25.1303(c)(1) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(vv) Section 91.605(b)(1)
Applies to large powered-lift
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the takeoff weight performance information.
(ww) Section 91.605(b)(2)
Applies to large powered-lift
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the landing performance information.
(xx) Section 91.605(b)(3), (b)(4)(ii), and (c)
Applies to large powered-lift that execute takeoff operations using wing-borne lift and that have takeoff performance information contained in the Aircraft Flight Manual
(yy) Section 91.609(c), (d), (e), (i), and (j)
Paragraph (c) of § 91.609 applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seats, of 10 or more seats; paragraph (e) of § 91.609 applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of six or more seats and for which two pilots are required by type certification or operating rule; paragraph (d) of § 91.609 applies to powered-lift required by that section to have a flight data recorder; and paragraphs (i) and (j) of § 91.609 apply to powered-lift required by that section to have a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder
(1) Operators of powered-lift having a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of 10 or more must comply with § 194.310 or § 194.311 in lieu of the appendices referenced in § 91.609(c)(1).
(2) For compliance with § 91.609(c)(3), (e)(1), and (i), powered-lift must comply with the certification provisions listed in those paragraphs or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(3) Under § 91.609(d), the flight recorder must operate continuously from the earlier of when the powered-lift begins the takeoff roll or begins lift-off until the later of when the powered-lift completes the landing roll or lands at its destination.
(zz) Section 91.613(b)(2)
Applies to large powered-lift
The thermal/acoustic installation materials required by § 91.613(b)(2) must meet the requirements of § 25.856 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
Part 91, Subpart K—Fractional Ownership Operations
(aaa) Section 91.1037
Applies to large powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart K to part 91 that are certificated to conduct landing operations in wing-borne flight mode as indicated in the Aircraft Flight Manual
If a powered-lift operator is required to comply with this section, the operator must also comply with § 91.1025(o)(7) of this chapter.
(bbb) Section 91.1041(b) and (d)
Applies to all powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart K to part 91
(ccc) Section 91.1045(a)
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart K to part 91 with a passenger-seat configuration of more than 30 seats or a payload capacity of more than 7,500 pounds
Under § 91.1045(a)(3), instead of TAWS, powered-lift must be equipped with a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system (HTAWS) that meets the requirements in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C194 and Section 2 of RTCA DO-309 (incorporated by reference, see § 194.109) or a FAA-approved TAWS A/HTAWS hybrid system.
(ddd) Section 91.1045(b)
Applies to powered-lift subject to the requirements of subpart K to part 91 with a passenger-seat configuration of 30 seats or fewer, excluding each crewmember, and a payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or less
Compliance with § 91.1045(b)(3) requires a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system that complies with § 194.306(s).
§ 194.303
IFR takeoff, approach, and landing minimums.
Section 91.1039(c) of this chapter applies to all powered-lift operated under subpart K to part 91 of this chapter regardless of powerplant type.
§ 194.304
ATC transponder and altitude reporting equipment and use.
Notwithstanding § 194.301, the exceptions outlined in § 91.215(b)(3) and (5) of this chapter for aircraft not certificated with an engine-driven electrical system do not apply to powered-lift.
§ 194.305
Applicability of copter procedures under part 97 of this chapter to powered-lift.
Persons operating powered-lift may use copter procedures as defined in § 97.3 of this chapter if the aircraft is certified for instrument flight rule operations and does not contain a limitation prohibiting use of such procedures in its Aircraft Flight Manual.
§ 194.306
Provisions under part 135 of this chapter applicable to powered-lift.
No person may operate a powered-lift under part 135 of this chapter unless that person complies with the regulations listed in the first column of table 1 to this section, notwithstanding their applicability to airplanes, helicopters, or rotorcraft, subject to the applicability provisions in the second column and any additional requirements or clarification specified in the third column.
Table 1 to § 194.306
Regulation
Applicability
Additional requirements or clarification
Part 135, Subpart A—General
(a) Section 135.1(a)(9) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L of part 135 of this chapter
(b) Section 135.23(r) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift required to comply with § 135.385 of this chapter as set forth in paragraphs (hhh) and (iii) of this section
Part 135, Subpart B—Flight Operations
(c) Section 135.93(a) through (f) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
(1) The requirements referencing an Airplane Flight Manual under § 135.93(b) of this chapter apply to a powered-lift's Aircraft Flight Manual.
(2) Under § 135.93(c) of this chapter, no person operating a powered-lift may use an autopilot enroute, including climb and descent, below the following—
(i) Either:
(A) At a minimum engagement altitude specified in the Aircraft Flight Manual; or
(B) If no minimum engagement altitude is specified, 500 feet, or at an altitude that is no lower than twice the altitude loss specified in the Aircraft Flight Manual for an autopilot malfunction in cruise conditions, whichever is greater; or
(ii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, at an altitude specified by the Administrator.
(d) Section 135.117(a)(9) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations beyond the autorotational distance from the shoreline, as defined in § 135.168(a) of this chapter, or gliding distance of a shoreline
(e) Section 135.128(a) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
The exception under § 135.128(a) of this chapter for seaplane and float equipped rotorcraft operations during movement on the surface applies to persons pushing off a powered-lift from the dock or persons mooring the powered-lift at the dock.
Part 135, Subpart C—Aircraft and Equipment
(f) Section 135.145(b) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift unless the certificate holder has previously proven a powered-lift under part 135 of this chapter
(g) Section 135.145(d)(1) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift unless a powered-lift of the same make or similar design has been proven or validated by that certificate holder under part 135 of this chapter
(h) Section 135.150(a)(7) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of more than 19
The public address system required by § 135.150(a)(7) of this chapter must comply with § 25.1423 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(i) Section 135.150(b)(7) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of more than 19
The crewmember interphone system must comply with the requirements of § 135.150(b)(7) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(j) Section 135.151(a) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of six or more seats and for which two pilots are required by certification or operating rules
The cockpit voice recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the certification provisions listed in § 135.151(a)(1) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(k) Section 135.151(b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 20 or more seats
The cockpit voice recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the certification provisions listed in § 135.151(b)(1) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(l) Section 135.151(d) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift or powered-lift equipped with a cockpit voice recorder
The cockpit voice recorder required by § 135.151(d) of this chapter must record the uninterrupted audio signal received by a boom or mask microphone in accordance with § 25.1457(c)(5) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(m) Section 135.151(g)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of six or more seats, for which two pilots are required by certification or operating rules, and that are required to have a flight data recorder under § 135.152 of this chapter
The cockpit voice recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.151(g)(1)(i) and (iv) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(n) Section 135.151(g)(2) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 20 or more seats and that is required to have a flight data recorder under § 135.152 of this chapter
The cockpit voice recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.151(g)(2)(i) and (iv) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(o) Section 135.151(h) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift required to have a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder under part 135 with installed datalink communication equipment
(p) Section 135.152(a) of this chapter
Section 135.152(a) of this chapter applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 10 to 19 seats
Powered-lift operators must comply with § 194.312 or § 194.313 in lieu of the appendices referenced in § 135.152 of this chapter.
(q) Section 135.152(b) introductory text and (b)(3) of this chapter
Section 135.152(b) introductory text and (b)(3) apply to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 20 to 30 seats
(r) Section 135.152(c), (d), (f), and (j) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding crewmember seats, of 10 to 30
(1) The flight recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.152 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(2) Certificate holders must keep the recorded data until the powered-lift has been operating for at least 25 hours.
(3) The powered-lift flight recorder must be operated continuously from the instant the powered-lift begins the takeoff roll or lift-off until the landing is completed.
(s) Section 135.154(a) and (c) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift configured with 6 or more passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat
Instead of TAWS, powered-lift must be equipped with a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system (HTAWS) that meets the requirements in TSO-C194 and Section 2 of RTCA DO-309 (incorporated by reference, see § 194.109) or a FAA-approved TAWS A/HTAWS hybrid system.
(t) Section 135.158 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift equipped with a flight instrument pitot heating system
Under § 135.158(a) of this chapter, no person may operate a powered-lift equipped with a flight instrument pitot heating system unless the aircraft is also equipped with an operable pitot heat indication system that complies with § 23.2605 or § 25.1326 of this chapter, or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter that provides an alert that is in clear view of a flightcrew member.
(u) Section 135.159(a)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with a third attitude instrument system that meets the requirements of § 135.159(a)(1) of this chapter
(v) Section 135.160 of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
(w) Section 135.163(g) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
The two required generators may be mounted on a drivetrain that is driven by two separate powerplants as outlined in § 135.163(g) of this chapter for multi-engine helicopters.
(x) Section 135.165(d) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift having a passenger seat configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of 10 seats or more, or a powered-lift in a commuter operation, as defined in part 119 of this chapter
(y) Section 135.165(g)(1) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift for purposes of approving a single long-range navigation system and a single long-range communication system for extended over-water operations
(z) Section 135.168 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating beyond autorotational distance or gliding distance from the shoreline
(1) The life preserver required by § 135.168(b)(1) of this chapter need not be worn but must be readily available for its intended use and easily accessible to each occupant when the powered-lift is a multiengine aircraft operated at a weight that will allow it to climb, with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust, at least 50 feet a minute, at an altitude of 1,000 feet above the surface.
(2) For powered-lift unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (z)(1) of this section, the occupants must wear life preservers during the flight.
(3) For purposes of paragraphs (z), (ii), (jj), and (kk) of this section,
critical change of thrust
means a failure that would most adversely affect the performance or handling qualities of an aircraft.
(aa) Section 135.169(a) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
Powered-lift must comply with appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.169(a) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(bb) Section 135.169(b)(1) and (b)(8) of this chapter
Applies to small powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding pilot seats, of 10 seats or more
(1) Under § 135.169(b)(1) of this chapter, small powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 10 seats or more must comply with the applicable requirements for transport category powered-lift or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(2) Under § 135.169(b)(8) of this chapter, small powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 10 seats or more must comply with the applicable requirements under part 23 of this chapter referenced in § 135.169(b)(8) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(cc) Section 135.169(d) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift with a cargo or baggage compartment of 200 cubic feet or greater
The cargo and baggage compartments required by § 135.169(d) of this chapter must comply with the certification provisions listed in that paragraph or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(dd) Section 135.170(b)(1) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift; § 135.170(b)(1)(ii) applies to large powered-lift with a passenger capacity of 20 or more
Powered-lift must comply with appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.170(b)(1) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(ee) Section 135.170(b)(2) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
The seat cushions required by § 135.170(b)(2) of this chapter must comply with § 25.853 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(ff) Section 135.170(c)(2) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
The seat cushions required by § 135.170(c)(2) of this chapter must comply with § 25.856 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(gg) Section 135.178 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift having a passenger-seating configuration of more than 19 seats
The additional emergency equipment must comply with appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.178 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(hh) Section 135.180 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seat configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of 10 to 30 seats
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the information outlined in § 135.180(b) of this chapter.
(ii) Section 135.181(a)(2) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift
No person may operate a multiengine powered-lift carrying passengers over-the-top or in IFR conditions at a weight that will not allow it to climb, with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust as defined in paragraph (z) of this section, at least 50 feet a minute when operating at the MEAs of the route to be flown or 5,000 feet MSL, whichever is higher.
(jj) Section 135.181(b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting offshore passenger operations
Multiengine powered-lift carrying passengers offshore may conduct such operations in over-the-top or in IFR conditions at a weight that will allow the powered-lift to climb at least 50 feet per minute with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust as defined in paragraph (z) of this section, when operating at the MEA of the route to be flown or 1,500 feet MSL, whichever is higher.
(kk) Section 135.183(c) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift
No person may operate a land aircraft carrying passengers over water unless it is a multiengine aircraft operated at a weight that will allow it to climb, with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust as defined in paragraph (z) of this section, at least 50 feet a minute, at an altitude of 1,000 feet above the surface.
(ll) Section 135.183(d) of this chapter
Applies if the powered-lift is equipped with flotation devices and carrying passengers over water
Part 135, Subpart D—VFR/IFR Operating Limitations and Weather Requirements
(mm) Section 135.203(a) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift except those operating in the vertical-lift flight mode under paragraph (nn) of this section
The Administrator may authorize a lower minimum altitude for a powered-lift if the FAA has determined, during type certification, the lower minimum altitude enables a transition from wing-borne to vertical-lift flight mode and the aircraft can conduct a safe autorotation, or an approved equivalent maneuver, to a landing but no lower than 300 feet above the surface.
(nn) Section 135.203(b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode that are certificated and able to conduct an autorotation or an approved equivalent maneuver to a landing
Powered-lift that do not meet the requirements of this paragraph (nn) must use the VFR minimum altitudes outlined in paragraph (mm) of this section.
(oo) Section 135.205(a) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift except as provided in paragraph (pp) of this section
(pp) Section 135.205(b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode and at a speed that allows the pilot adequate opportunity to see and avoid any other air traffic or any obstructions in time to avoid a collision
Powered-lift that do not meet the requirements of this paragraph (pp) must use the VFR visibility requirements outlined in § 135.205(a) of this chapter.
(qq) Section 135.207 of this chapter
Applies if the powered-lift does not have the flight instrumentation listed in § 135.159 of this chapter installed and operable
(rr) Section 135.209(a) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift except as provided in paragraph (ss) of this section
(1) The Administrator may authorize deviations from paragraph (a) of § 135.209 of this chapter for specific routes with one or more predetermined suitable landing areas if the FAA finds the operation can be conducted safely. If the Administrator authorizes such a deviation, an operations specification will be issued to the operator containing, at a minimum, the specific routes and the VFR fuel reserve specified in minutes. The Administrator may, at any time, terminate any grant of deviation authority issued under this paragraph.
(2)
Suitable landing area
for purposes of this paragraph (rr) and paragraph (ss) of this section means an area that provides the operator reasonable capability to land without causing undue hazard to persons or property. These suitable landing areas must be site specific, designated by the operator, and accepted by the FAA.
(ss) Section 135.209(b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift with the performance capability, as provided in the Aircraft Flight Manual, for the entire flight to conduct a landing in the vertical-lift flight mode
The Administrator may authorize deviations from § 135.209(b) of this chapter for specific routes with one or more predetermined suitable landing areas if the FAA finds the operation can be conducted safely. If the Administrator authorizes such a deviation, an operations specification will be issued to the operator containing, at a minimum, the specific routes and the VFR fuel reserve specified in minutes. The Administrator may, at any time, terminate any grant of deviation authority issued under this paragraph.
(tt) Section 135.221(b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift authorized to conduct copter procedures and which can land in the vertical-lift flight mode, as provided in the Aircraft Flight Manual
Powered-lift that do not meet these criteria must use the alternate airport minimums specified for aircraft in § 135.221(a) of this chapter.
(uu) Section 135.223(a)(3) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift authorized to conduct copter procedures and that have the performance capability, as provided in the Aircraft Flight Manual, to conduct a landing in the vertical-lift flight mode for the entire flight
(1) A powered-lift that meets the requirements of paragraph (uu) of this section may use the 30-minute fuel requirements specified for helicopters in § 135.223(a)(3) of this chapter.
(2) Powered-lift that are unable to meet the requirements outlined in paragraph (uu) of this section must use the 45-minute fuel requirement outlined in § 135.223(a)(3) of this chapter.
(vv) Section 135.225(e) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
(ww) Section 135.227(b) of this chapter
Applies to all powered-lift
(1) Powered-lift critical surfaces, as outlined in the aircraft flight manual for that aircraft, must also be determined to be free of frost, ice, or snow.
(2) Powered-lift critical surfaces under this section are determined by the manufacturer.
(xx) Section 135.227(d) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift that are type certificated and appropriately equipped for operations in icing conditions
(yy) Section 135.229(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift taking off or landing in vertical-lift flight mode and equipped with landing lights oriented in a direction that enables the pilot to see the area to be used for landing or takeoff marked by reflective material
If a powered-lift is not taking off or landing in vertical-lift flight mode and is not equipped with landing lights oriented in a direction that enables the pilot to see the area to be used for landing or takeoff marked by reflective material, the powered-lift must take off or land at an airport with boundary or runway marker lights.
Part 135, Subpart F—Crewmember Flight Time and Duty Period Limitations and Rest Requirements
(zz) Section 135.271 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
Part 135, Subpart I—Airplane Performance Operating Limitations
(aaa) Section 135.361(a) of this chapter
As applicable to each powered-lift considering size and certification basis and subject to any limitations outlined in this part
Any sections or paragraphs within sections to subpart I to part 135 of this chapter that refer to a specific category of aircraft and that are not referenced in the table to § 194.302 or this table, do not apply to powered-lift.
(bbb) Section 135.363(b) through (e) of this chapter
As applicable to each powered-lift, regardless of power plant type, considering size and certification basis
(ccc) Section 135.363(f) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift that must comply with §§ 135.365 through 135.387 of this chapter as set forth in paragraphs (ddd) through (jjj) of this section
(ddd) Section 135.379(a) and (d) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the takeoff weight performance information.
(eee) Section 135.379(c), (e), (f), and (g) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift certificated to conduct takeoff operations that utilize wing-borne lift as indicated in the aircraft flight manual
The accelerate-stop distance required by § 135.379(c)(1) of this chapter must comply with § 25.109 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(fff) Section 135.381 of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
(ggg) Section 135.383(c) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
(hhh) Section 135.385(a) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the landing weight performance information.
(iii) Section 135.385(b), (d), (e), and (f) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift certificated to conduct landing operations that utilize wing-borne lift and that have landing performance information contained in the aircraft flight manual
Section 135.385(f) only applies to eligible on-demand operators.
(jjj) Section 135.387(a) and (b) of this chapter
Applies to large powered-lift certificated to conduct landing operations that utilize wing-borne lift and that have landing performance information contained in the aircraft flight manual
(1) Powered-lift operating under § 135.387(a) of this chapter must be able to complete a full stop landing within 60 percent of the effective length of the runway.
(2) Section 135.387(b) only applies to eligible on-demand operators.
(kkk) Section 135.397(b) of this chapter
Applies to small powered-lift having a passenger-seating configuration of more than 19 seats and that utilize wing-borne lift during takeoff and landing
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the takeoff and landing weight performance information.
Part 135, Subpart J—Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, and Alterations
(lll) Section 135.429(d) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift that operate in remote areas or sites
Part 135, Subpart L—Helicopter Air Ambulance Equipment, Operations, and Training Requirements
(mmm) Section 135.601 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
(nnn) Section 135.603 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
(1) Under § 135.603 of this chapter, no certificate holder may use, nor may any person serve as, a pilot in command of an air ambulance operation unless that person meets the requirements of § 135.243 of this chapter and holds a powered-lift instrument rating or an airline transport pilot certificate with a category rating for that aircraft, that is not limited to VFR.
(2) See § 194.249 of this chapter for references to class in part 135 of this chapter.
(ooo) Section 135.605 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
Powered-lift must be equipped with a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system (HTAWS) that meets the requirements in TSO-C194 and Section 2 of RTCA DO-309 (incorporated by reference, see § 194.109) or a FAA-approved TAWS A/HTAWS hybrid system.
(ppp) Section 135.607 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
(qqq) Section 135.609 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
(1) For nonmountainous local flying areas, powered-lift must comply with the following weather minimums:
(i) During day operations in a vertical-lift or wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 800 feet and visibility of 2 SM;
(ii) During night operations in a vertical-lift flight mode, a ceiling of 800 feet and visibility of 3 SM; and
(iii) During night operations in a wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 1500 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(2) For nonmountainous, non-local flying areas, powered-lift must comply with the following weather minimums:
(i) During day operations in a vertical-lift or wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 800 feet and visibility of 3 SM;
(ii) During night operations in a vertical-lift flight mode, a ceiling of 1000 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(iii) During night operations in a wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 1500 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(3) For mountainous local flying areas, powered-lift must comply with the following weather minimums:
(i) During day operations in a vertical-lift or wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 800 feet and visibility of 3 SM;
(ii) During night operations in a vertical-lift flight mode, a ceiling of 1000 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(iii) During night operations in a wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 2500 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(4) For mountainous non-local flying areas, powered-lift must comply with the following weather minimums:
(i) During day operations in a vertical-lift or wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 1000 feet and visibility of 3 SM; and
(ii) During night operations in a vertical-lift flight mode, a ceiling of 1000 feet and visibility of 5 SM;
(iii) During night operations in a wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 2500 feet and visibility of 5 SM.
(rrr) Section 135.611 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
(sss) Section 135.613(a) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
(1) Section 135.613(a)(1) of this chapter only applies to powered-lift equipped and certified to conduct PinS approaches annotated with a “Proceed VFR” segment.
(2) The applicable VFR weather minimums under § 135.613(a)(2) of this chapter for powered-lift operating in the wing-borne flight mode are:
(i) For Day Operations: No less than a 1000-foot ceiling and 2 statute miles flight visibility; and
(ii) For Night Operations: No less than a 1500-foot ceiling and 3 statute miles flight visibility.
(3) The applicable VFR weather minimums under § 135.613(a)(2) of this chapter for powered-lift operating in the vertical-lift mode are:
(i) For Day Operations: No less than a 600-foot ceiling and 2 statute miles flight visibility; and
(ii) For Night Operations: No less than a 600-foot ceiling and 3 statute miles flight visibility.
(ttt) Section 135.613(b) of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(1) Under § 135.613(b)(1) of this chapter, for transitions from VFR to IFR upon departure, the VFR weather minimums outlined for powered-lift under paragraph (sss) of this section apply if:
(i) An FAA-approved obstacle departure procedure is followed; and
(ii) An IFR clearance is obtained on or before reaching a predetermined location that is not more than 3 NM from the departure location.
(2) Under § 135.613(b)(2) of this chapter, if the departure does not meet the requirements of paragraph (ttt)(1) of this section, the VFR weather minimums required by the SFAR for the class of airspace apply.
(uuu) Section 135.615 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
(1) For powered-lift operating in wing-borne flight mode during the enroute phase of flight, under § 135.615(a)(3) of this chapter, (b), and (c), the following minimums apply:
(i) For day operations: no less than 500 feet above the surface or no less than 500 feet horizontally from any obstacle; or
(ii) For night operations: at an altitude no less than 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal distance of 5 miles from the course intended to be flown or, in designated mountainous terrain, no less than 2,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal distance of 5 miles from the course intended to be flown.
(2) For powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode during the enroute phase of flight, under § 135.615(a)(3), (b), and (c) of this chapter the following minimums apply:
(i) No less than 300 feet for day operations.
(ii) No less than 500 feet for night operations.
(vvv) Section 135.617 of this chapter
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
(www) Section 135.619
Applies to powered-lift operators with 10 or more powered-lift, helicopters, or any combination thereof, assigned to the certificate holder's operations specifications for air ambulance operations
(xxx) Section 135.621
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135 of this chapter
Table 1 to § 194.306
Regulation
Applicability
Additional requirements or clarification
Part 135, Subpart A—General
(a) Section 135.1(a)(9)
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(b) Section 135.23(r)
Applies to powered-lift required to comply with § 135.385 as set forth in paragraphs (hhh) and (iii) of this section
Part 135, Subpart B—Flight Operations
(c) Section 135.93(a) through (f)
Applies to all powered-lift
(1) The requirements referencing an Airplane Flight Manual under § 135.93(b) apply to a powered-lift's Aircraft Flight Manual.
(2) Under § 135.93(c), no person operating a powered-lift may use an autopilot enroute, including climb and descent, below the following—
(i) Either:
(A) At a minimum engagement altitude specified in the Aircraft Flight Manual; or
(B) If no minimum engagement altitude is specified, 500 feet, or at an altitude that is no lower than twice the altitude loss specified in the Aircraft Flight Manual for an autopilot malfunction in cruise conditions, whichever is greater; or
(ii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, at an altitude specified by the Administrator.
(d) Section 135.117(a)(9)
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations beyond the autorotational distance from the shoreline, as defined in § 135.168(a), or gliding distance of a shoreline
(e) Section 135.128(a)
Applies to all powered-lift
The exception under § 135.128(a) for seaplane and float equipped rotorcraft operations during movement on the surface applies to persons pushing off a powered-lift from the dock or persons mooring the powered-lift at the dock.
Part 135, Subpart C—Aircraft and Equipment
(f) Section 135.145(b)
Applies to all powered-lift unless the certificate holder has previously proven a powered-lift under part 135
(g) Section 135.145(d)(1)
Applies to all powered-lift unless a powered-lift of the same make or similar design has been proven or validated by that certificate holder under part 135
(h) Section 135.150(a)(7)
Applies to large powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of more than 19
The public address system required by § 135.150(a)(7) must comply with § 25.1423 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(i) Section 135.150(b)(7)
Applies to large powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of more than 19
The crewmember interphone system must comply with the requirements of § 135.150(b)(7) or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(j) Section 135.151(a)
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of six or more seats and for which two pilots are required by certification or operating rules
The cockpit voice recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the certification provisions listed in § 135.151(a)(1) or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(k) Section 135.151(b)
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 20 or more seats
The cockpit voice recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the certification provisions listed in § 135.151(b)(1) or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(l) Section 135.151(d)
Applies to large powered-lift or powered-lift equipped with a cockpit voice recorder
The cockpit voice recorder required by § 135.151(d) must record the uninterrupted audio signal received by a boom or mask microphone in accordance with § 25.1457(c)(5) of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(m) Section 135.151(g)(1)
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of six or more seats, for which two pilots are required by certification or operating rules, and that are required to have a flight data recorder under § 135.152
The cockpit voice recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.151(g)(1)(i) and (iv) or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(n) Section 135.151(g)(2)
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 20 or more seats and that is required to have a flight data recorder under § 135.152
The cockpit voice recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.151(g)(2)(i) and (iv) or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(o) Section 135.151(h)
Applies to powered-lift required to have a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder under part 135 with installed datalink communication equipment
(p) Section 135.152(a)
Paragraph (a) of § 135.152 applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 10 to 19 seats
Powered-lift operators must comply with § 194.312 or § 194.313 in lieu of the appendices referenced in § 135.152.
(q) Section 135.152(b) introductory text and (b)(3)
Paragraphs (b) introductory text and (b)(3) of § 135.152 apply to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 20 to 30 seats
(r) Section 135.152(c), (d), (f), and (j)
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding crewmember seats, of 10 to 30
(1) The flight recorder must be installed and equipped in accordance with the appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.152 or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(2) Certificate holders must keep the recorded data until the powered-lift has been operating for at least 25 hours.
(3) The powered-lift flight recorder must be operated continuously from the instant the powered-lift begins the takeoff roll or lift-off until the landing is completed.
(s) Section 135.154(a) and (c)
Applies to powered-lift configured with 6 or more passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat
Instead of TAWS, powered-lift must be equipped with a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system (HTAWS) that meets the requirements in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C194 and Section 2 of RTCA DO-309 (incorporated by reference, see § 194.109) or a FAA-approved TAWS A/HTAWS hybrid system.
(t) Section 135.158
Applies to powered-lift equipped with a flight instrument pitot heating system
Under § 135.158(a), no person may operate a powered-lift equipped with a flight instrument pitot heating system unless the aircraft is also equipped with an operable pitot heat indication system that complies with § 23.2605 of this chapter, or § 25.1326 of this chapter, or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) that provides an alert that is in clear view of a flightcrew member.
(u) Section 135.159(a)(1)
Applies to powered-lift with a third attitude instrument system that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of § 135.159
(v) Section 135.160
Applies to all powered-lift
(w) Section 135.163(g)
Applies to all powered-lift
The two required generators may be mounted on a drivetrain that is driven by two separate powerplants as outlined in § 135.163(g) for multi-engine helicopters.
(x) Section 135.165(d)
Applies to powered-lift having a passenger seat configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of 10 seats or more, or a powered-lift in a commuter operation, as defined in part 119 of this chapter
(y) Section 135.165(g)(1)
Applies to powered-lift for purposes of approving a single long-range navigation system and a single long-range communication system for extended over-water operations
(z) Section 135.168
Applies to powered-lift operating beyond autorotational distance or gliding distance from the shoreline
(1) The life preserver required by § 135.168(b)(1) need not be worn but must be readily available for its intended use and easily accessible to each occupant when the powered-lift is a multiengine aircraft operated at a weight that will allow it to climb, with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust, at least 50 feet a minute, at an altitude of 1,000 feet above the surface.
(2) For powered-lift unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (z)(1) of this section, the occupants must wear life preservers during the flight.
(3) For purposes of paragraphs (z), (ii), (jj), and (kk) of this section,
critical change of thrust
means a failure that would most adversely affect the performance or handling qualities of an aircraft.
(aa) Section 135.169(a)
Applies to large powered-lift
Powered-lift must comply with appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.169(a) or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(bb) Section 135.169(b)(1) and (b)(8)
Applies to small powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration, excluding pilot seats, of 10 seats or more
(1) Under § 135.169(b)(1), small powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 10 seats or more must comply with the applicable requirements for transport category powered-lift or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(2) Under § 135.169(b)(8), small powered-lift with a passenger seating configuration of 10 seats or more must comply with the applicable requirements under part 23 of this chapter referenced in § 135.169(b)(8) or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(cc) Section 135.169(d)
Applies to large powered-lift with a cargo or baggage compartment of 200 cubic feet or greater
The cargo and baggage compartments required by § 135.169(d) must comply with the certification provisions listed in that paragraph or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(dd) Section 135.170(b)(1)
Applies to large powered-lift; paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of § 135.170 applies to large powered-lift with a passenger capacity of 20 or more
Powered-lift must comply with appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.170(b)(1) or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(ee) Section 135.170(b)(2)
Applies to large powered-lift
The seat cushions required by § 135.170(b)(2) must comply with § 25.853 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(ff) Section 135.170(c)(2)
Applies to large powered-lift
The seat cushions required by § 135.170(c)(2) must comply with § 25.856 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(gg) Section 135.178
Applies to powered-lift having a passenger-seating configuration of more than 19 seats
The additional emergency equipment must comply with appropriate certification provisions listed in § 135.178 or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(hh) Section 135.180
Applies to powered-lift with a passenger seat configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of 10 to 30 seats
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the information outlined in § 135.180(b).
(ii) Section 135.181(a)(2)
Applies to powered-lift
No person may operate a multiengine powered-lift carrying passengers over-the-top or in IFR conditions at a weight that will not allow it to climb, with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust as defined in paragraph (z) of this section, at least 50 feet a minute when operating at the MEAs of the route to be flown or 5,000 feet MSL, whichever is higher.
(jj) Section 135.181(b)
Applies to powered-lift conducting offshore passenger operations
Multiengine powered-lift carrying passengers offshore may conduct such operations in over-the-top or in IFR conditions at a weight that will allow the powered-lift to climb at least 50 feet per minute with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust as defined in paragraph (z) of this section, when operating at the MEA of the route to be flown or 1,500 feet MSL, whichever is higher.
(kk) Section 135.183(c)
Applies to powered-lift
No person may operate a land aircraft carrying passengers over water unless it is a multiengine aircraft operated at a weight that will allow it to climb, with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust as defined in paragraph (z) of this section, at least 50 feet a minute, at an altitude of 1,000 feet above the surface.
(ll) Section 135.183(d)
Applies if the powered-lift is equipped with flotation devices and carrying passengers over water
Part 135, Subpart D—VFR/IFR Operating Limitations and Weather Requirements
(mm) Section 135.203(a)
Applies to powered-lift except those operating in the vertical-lift flight mode under paragraph (nn) of this section
The Administrator may authorize a lower minimum altitude for a powered-lift if the FAA has determined, during type certification, the lower minimum altitude enables a transition from wing-borne to vertical-lift flight mode and the aircraft can conduct a safe autorotation, or an approved equivalent maneuver, to a landing but no lower than 300 feet above the surface.
(nn) Section 135.203(b)
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode that are certificated and able to conduct an autorotation or an approved equivalent maneuver to a landing
Powered-lift that do not meet the requirements of this paragraph (nn) must use the VFR minimum altitudes outlined in paragraph (mm) of this section.
(oo) Section 135.205(a)
Applies to all powered-lift except as provided in paragraph (pp) of this section
(pp)Section 135.205(b)
Applies to powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode and at a speed that allows the pilot adequate opportunity to see and avoid any other air traffic or any obstructions in time to avoid a collision
Powered-lift that do not meet the requirements of this paragraph (pp) must use the VFR visibility requirements outlined in § 135.205(a).
(qq) Section 135.207
Applies if the powered-lift does not have the flight instrumentation listed in § 135.159 installed and operable
(rr) Section 135.209(a)
Applies to all powered-lift except as provided in paragraph (ss) of this section
(1) The Administrator may authorize deviations from paragraph (a) of § 135.209 for specific routes with one or more predetermined suitable landing areas if the FAA finds the operation can be conducted safely. If the Administrator authorizes such a deviation, an operations specification will be issued to the operator containing, at a minimum, the specific routes and the VFR fuel reserve specified in minutes. The Administrator may, at any time, terminate any grant of deviation authority issued under this paragraph.
(2)
Suitable landing area
for purposes of this paragraph (rr) and paragraph (ss) of this section means an area that provides the operator reasonable capability to land without causing undue hazard to persons or property. These suitable landing areas must be site specific, designated by the operator, and accepted by the FAA.
(ss) Section 135.209(b)
Applies to powered-lift with the performance capability, as provided in the Aircraft Flight Manual, for the entire flight to conduct a landing in the vertical-lift flight mode
The Administrator may authorize deviations from paragraph (b) of § 135.209 for specific routes with one or more predetermined suitable landing areas if the FAA finds the operation can be conducted safely. If the Administrator authorizes such a deviation, an operations specification will be issued to the operator containing, at a minimum, the specific routes and the VFR fuel reserve specified in minutes. The Administrator may, at any time, terminate any grant of deviation authority issued under this paragraph.
(tt) Section 135.221(b)
Applies to powered-lift authorized to conduct copter procedures and which can land in the vertical-lift flight mode, as provided in the Aircraft Flight Manual
Powered-lift that do not meet these criteria must use the alternate airport minimums specified for aircraft in § 135.221(a).
(uu) Section 135.223(a)(3)
Applies to powered-lift authorized to conduct copter procedures and that have the performance capability, as provided in the Aircraft Flight Manual, to conduct a landing in the vertical-lift flight mode for the entire flight
(1) A powered-lift that meets the requirements of paragraph (uu) of this section may use the 30-minute fuel requirements specified for helicopters in § 135.223(a)(3).
(2) Powered-lift that are unable to meet the requirements outlined in paragraph (uu) of this section must use the 45-minute fuel requirement outlined in § 135.223(a)(3).
(vv) Section 135.225(e)
Applies to all powered-lift
(ww) Section 135.227(b)
Applies to all powered-lift
(1) Powered-lift critical surfaces, as outlined in the aircraft flight manual for that aircraft, must also be determined to be free of frost, ice, or snow.
(2) Powered-lift critical surfaces under this section are determined by the manufacturer.
(xx) Section 135.227(d)
Applies to powered-lift that are type certificated and appropriately equipped for operations in icing conditions
(yy) Section 135.229(b)(2)(ii)
Applies to powered-lift taking off or landing in vertical-lift flight mode and equipped with landing lights oriented in a direction that enables the pilot to see the area to be used for landing or takeoff marked by reflective material
If a powered-lift is not taking off or landing in vertical-lift flight mode and is not equipped with landing lights oriented in a direction that enables the pilot to see the area to be used for landing or takeoff marked by reflective material, the powered-lift must take off or land at an airport with boundary or runway marker lights.
Part 135, Subpart F—Crewmember Flight Time and Duty Period Limitations and Rest Requirements
(zz) Section 135.271
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
Part 135, Subpart I—Airplane Performance Operating Limitations
(aaa) Section 135.361(a)
As applicable to each powered-lift considering size and certification basis and subject to any limitations outlined in this SFAR
Any sections or paragraphs within sections to subpart I to part 135 that refer to a specific category of aircraft and that are not referenced in the SFAR tables to § 194.302 or this section, do not apply to powered-lift.
(bbb) Section 135.363(b) through (e)
As applicable to each powered-lift, regardless of power plant type, considering size and certification basis
(ccc) Section 135.363(f)
Applies to powered-lift that must comply with §§ 135.365 through 135.387 as set forth in paragraphs (ddd) through (jjj) of this section
(ddd) Section 135.379(a) and (d)
Applies to large powered-lift
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the takeoff weight performance information.
(eee) Section 135.379(c), (e), (f), and (g)
Applies to large powered-lift certificated to conduct takeoff operations that utilize wing-borne lift as indicated in the aircraft flight manual
The accelerate-stop distance required by § 135.379(c)(1) must comply with § 25.109 of this chapter or such airworthiness criteria as the FAA may find provide an equivalent level of safety in accordance with § 21.17(b) of this chapter.
(fff) Section 135.381
Applies to large powered-lift
(ggg) Section 135.383(c)
Applies to large powered-lift
(hhh) Section 135.385(a)
Applies to large powered-lift
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the landing weight performance information.
(iii) Section 135.385(b), (d), (e), and (f)
Applies to large powered-lift certificated to conduct landing operations that utilize wing-borne lift and that have landing performance information contained in the aircraft flight manual
Paragraph (f) of § 135.385 only applies to eligible on-demand operators.
(jjj) Section 135.387(a) and (b)
Applies to large powered-lift certificated to conduct landing operations that utilize wing-borne lift and that have landing performance information contained in the aircraft flight manual
(1) Powered-lift operating under § 135.387(a) must be able to complete a full stop landing within 60 percent of the effective length of the runway.
(2) Paragraph (b) of § 135.387 only applies to eligible on-demand operators.
(kkk) Section 135.397(b)
Applies to small powered-lift having a passenger-seating configuration of more than 19 seats and that utilize wing-borne lift during takeoff and landing
The Aircraft Flight Manual must contain the takeoff and landing weight performance information.
Part 135, Subpart J—Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, and Alterations
(lll) Section 135.429(d)
Applies to powered-lift that operate in remote areas or sites
Part 135, Subpart L—Helicopter Air Ambulance Equipment, Operations, and Training Requirements
(mmm) Section 135.601
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(nnn) Section 135.603
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(1) Under § 135.603, no certificate holder may use, nor may any person serve as, a pilot in command of an air ambulance operation unless that person meets the requirements of § 135.243 and holds a powered-lift instrument rating or an airline transport pilot certificate with a category rating for that aircraft, that is not limited to VFR.
(2) See § 194.249 for references to class in part 135.
(ooo) Section 135.605
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
Powered-lift must be equipped with a helicopter terrain awareness and warning system (HTAWS) that meets the requirements in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C194 and Section 2 of RTCA DO-309 (incorporated by reference, see § 194.109) or a FAA-approved TAWS A/HTAWS hybrid system.
(ppp) Section 135.607
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(qqq) Section 135.609
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(1) For nonmountainous local flying areas, powered-lift must comply with the following weather minimums:
(i) During day operations in a vertical-lift or wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 800 feet and visibility of 2 SM;
(ii) During night operations in a vertical-lift flight mode, a ceiling of 800 feet and visibility of 3 SM; and
(iii) During night operations in a wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 1500 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(2) For nonmountainous, non-local flying areas, powered-lift must comply with the following weather minimums:
(i) During day operations in a vertical-lift or wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 800 feet and visibility of 3 SM;
(ii) During night operations in a vertical-lift flight mode, a ceiling of 1000 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(iii) During night operations in a wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 1500 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(3) For mountainous local flying areas, powered-lift must comply with the following weather minimums:
(i) During day operations in a vertical-lift or wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 800 feet and visibility of 3 SM;
(ii) During night operations in a vertical-lift flight mode, a ceiling of 1000 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(iii) During night operations in a wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 2500 feet and visibility of 3 SM.
(4) For mountainous non-local flying areas, powered-lift must comply with the following weather minimums:
(i) During day operations in a vertical-lift or wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 1000 feet and visibility of 3 SM; and
(ii) During night operations in a vertical-lift flight mode, a ceiling of 1000 feet and visibility of 5 SM;
(iii) During night operations in a wing-borne flight mode, a ceiling of 2500 feet and visibility of 5 SM.
(rrr) Section 135.611
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(sss) Section 135.613(a)
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(1) Section 135.613(a)(1) only applies to powered-lift equipped and certified to conduct PinS approaches annotated with a “Proceed VFR” segment.
(2) The applicable VFR weather minimums under § 135.613(a)(2) for powered-lift operating in the wing-borne flight mode are:
(i) For Day Operations: No less than a 1000-foot ceiling and 2 statute miles flight visibility; and
(ii) For Night Operations: No less than a 1500-foot ceiling and 3 statute miles flight visibility.
(3) The applicable VFR weather minimums under § 135.613(a)(2) for powered-lift operating in the vertical-lift mode are:
(i) For Day Operations: No less than a 600-foot ceiling and 2 statute miles flight visibility; and
(ii) For Night Operations: No less than a 600-foot ceiling and 3 statute miles flight visibility.
(ttt) Section 135.613(b)
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(1) Under § 135.613(b)(1), for transitions from VFR to IFR upon departure, the VFR weather minimums outlined for powered-lift under paragraph (sss) of this section apply if:
(i) An FAA-approved obstacle departure procedure is followed; and
(ii) An IFR clearance is obtained on or before reaching a predetermined location that is not more than 3 NM from the departure location.
(2) Under § 135.613(b)(2), if the departure does not meet the requirements of paragraph (ttt)(1) of this section, the VFR weather minimums required by the SFAR for the class of airspace apply.
(uuu) Section 135.615
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(1) For powered-lift operating in wing-borne flight mode during the enroute phase of flight, under § 135.615(a)(3), (b), and (c), the following minimums apply:
(i) For day operations: no less than 500 feet above the surface or no less than 500 feet horizontally from any obstacle; or
(ii) For night operations: at an altitude no less than 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal distance of 5 miles from the course intended to be flown or, in designated mountainous terrain, no less than 2,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal distance of 5 miles from the course intended to be flown.
(2) For powered-lift operating in vertical-lift flight mode during the enroute phase of flight, under § 135.615(a)(3), (b), and (c) the following minimums apply:
(i) No less than 300 feet for day operations.
(ii) No less than 500 feet for night operations.
(vvv) Section 135.617
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
(www) Section 135.619
Applies to powered-lift operators with 10 or more powered-lift, helicopters, or any combination thereof, assigned to the certificate holder's operations specifications for air ambulance operations
(xxx) Section 135.621
Applies to powered-lift conducting operations in accordance with subpart L to part 135
§ 194.307
Applicability of rules for eligible on-demand operations.
No person may operate a powered-lift in an eligible on-demand operation under part 135 of this chapter without complying with the requirements specified for the second in command of a fixed-wing aircraft contained in § 135.4(a)(3) of this chapter.
§ 194.308
Applicability of national air tour safety standards under part 136 of this chapter to powered-lift.
(a) Persons operating powered-lift in commercial air tours must continue to comply with rules applicable to all aircraft in part 136 of this chapter, as applicable to the operation.
(b) Suitable landing area, as defined in § 136.1 of this chapter, applies to powered-lift conducting commercial air tours.
(c) Critical change of thrust for purposes of this section means a failure that would most adversely affect the performance or handling qualities of an aircraft.
(d) No person may operate a powered-lift in a commercial air tour unless that person complies with the regulations listed in the first column of table 1 to this section, notwithstanding their applicability to airplanes or rotorcraft, subject to the applicability provisions in the second column, and any additional requirements or clarification specified in the third column:
Table 1 to § 194.308
Regulation
Applicability
Additional Requirements or Clarification
Part 136, Subpart A National Air Tour Safety Standards
(1) Section 136.9
Applies to powered-lift used in commercial air tours over water beyond the shoreline.
(i) Section 136.9(b)(2) applies to powered-lift operating in wing-borne flight mode within power-off gliding distance to the shoreline for the duration of the time that the flight is over water.
(ii) Section 136.9(b)(3), applies to multiengine powered-lift that can be operated with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust, at a weight that will allow it to climb, at least 50 feet a minute, at an altitude of 1,000 feet above the surface, as provided in the approved aircraft flight manual for that aircraft.
(2) Section 136.11
Applies to powered-lift used in commercial air tours over water beyond the shoreline.
(i) Section 136.11(a)(1) applies to single-engine powered-lift.
(ii) Section 136.11(a)(2) applies to multi-engine powered-lift that cannot be operated with the critical engine inoperative or while experiencing a critical change of thrust, at a weight that will allow it to climb, at least 50 feet a minute, at an altitude of 1,000 feet above the surface, as provided in the approved aircraft flight manual for that aircraft.
(3) Section 136.13
Applies to powered-lift.
(4) Section 136.75(a)
Applies to all single-engine powered-lift conducting air tours in Hawaii beyond the shore of any island.
(5) Section 136.75(b)
Applies to powered-lift.
(6) Section 136.75(c)
Applies to powered-lift with an Aircraft Flight Manual containing height velocity information.
Except for approach to and transition from a hover, and except for the purpose of takeoff and landing, the PIC of a powered-lift may only operate such aircraft at a combination of height and forward speed (including hover) that would permit a safe landing in the event of engine power loss or critical change of thrust, in accordance with the height-speed envelope for that powered-lift under current weight and aircraft altitude.
§ 194.309
Applicability of flight instruction; Simulated instrument flight.
The requirement to hold the appropriate category and class rating in § 91.109(c)(1)(i) of this chapter is not applicable to operations conducted to meet alternate aeronautical experience requirements set forth in §§ 194.225, 194.227, and 194.229.
§ 194.310
Powered-lift in vertical-lift flight mode, flight recorder specifications under part 91 of this chapter.
Table 1 to § 194.310
Parameters
Range
Installed system
1
minimum
accuracy
(to recovered data)
Sampling interval (per second)
Resolution 3 read out
Relative Time (From Recorded on Prior to Takeoff)
4 hr minimum
±0.125% per hour
1
1 sec.
Indicated Airspeed
VM in to VD (KIAS) (minimum airspeed signal attainable with installed pilot-static system)
±5% or ±10 kts., whichever is greater
1
1 kt.
Altitude
−1,000 ft. to 20,000 ft. pressure altitude
±100 to ±700 ft. (see Table 1, TSO C51-a)
1
25 to 150 ft.
Magnetic Heading
360°
±5°
1
1°
Vertical Acceleration
−3g to + 6g
±0.2g in addition to ±0.3g maximum datum
4 (or 1 per second where peaks, ref. to 1g are recorded)
0.05g.
Longitudinal Acceleration
±1.0g
±1.5% max. range excluding datum error of ±5%
2
0.03g.
Pitch Attitude
100% of usable range
±2°
1
0.8°.
Roll Attitude
±60 or 100% of usable range, whichever is greater
±2°
1
0.8°.
Altitude Rate
±8,000 fpm
±10% Resolution 250 fpm below 12,000 ft. indicated
1
250 fpm below 12,000.
Engine Power, Each Engine:
Main Rotor Speed
Maximum Range
±5%
1
1%.
2
Free or Power Turbine
Maximum Range
±5%
1
1%.
2
Engine Torque
Maximum Range
±5%
1
1%.
2
Flight Control Hydraulic Pressure:
Primary (Discrete)
High/Low
1
Secondary—if applicable (Discrete)
High/Low
1
Radio Transmitter Keying (Discrete)
On/Off
1
Autopilot Engaged (Discrete)
Engaged or Disengaged
1
SAS Status-Engaged (Discrete)
Engaged or Disengaged
1
SAS Fault Status (Discrete)
Fault/OK
1
Flight Controls:
Pilot Inputted—Primary Controls (I.E. Ascent, descent, acceleration, and deceleration, heading and directional control for all axis)
Full range
±3%
2
1%.
2
Controllable Stabilator Position
Full range
±3%
2
1%.
2
1
When data sources are aircraft instruments (except altimeters) of acceptable quality to fly the aircraft the recording system excluding these sensors (but including all other characteristics of the recording system) shall contribute no more than half of the values in this column.
2
Percent of full range.
§ 194.311
Powered-lift in wing-borne flight mode, flight recorder specifications under part 91 of this chapter.
Table 1 to § 194.311
Parameters
Range
Installed system
1
minimum
accuracy (to
recovered data)
Sampling interval (per second)
Resolution read out
Relative Time (From Recorded on Prior to Takeoff)
8 hr minimum
±0.125% per hour
1
1 sec.
Indicated Airspeed
Vso to VD (KIAS)
±5% or ±10 kts., whichever is greater. Resolution 2 kts. below 175 KIAS
1
1%.
3
Altitude
−1,000 ft. to max cert. alt. of A/C
±100 to ±700 ft. (see Table 1, TSO C51-a)
1
25 to 150 ft.
Magnetic Heading
360°
±5°
1
1.°
Vertical Acceleration
−3g to + 6g
±0.2g in addition to ±0.3g maximum datum
4 (or 1 per second where peaks, ref. to 1g are recorded)
0.03g.
Longitudinal Acceleration
±1.0g
±1.5% max. range excluding datum error of ±5%
2
0.01g.
Pitch Attitude
100% of usable
±2°
1
0.8.°
Roll Attitude
±60° or 100% of usable range, whichever is greater
±2°
1
0.8.°
Stabilizer Trim Position, or
Full Range
±3% unless higher uniquely required
1
1%.
3
Pitch Control Position
Engine Power, Each Engine:
Full Range
±3% unless higher uniquely required
1
1%.
3
Fan or N
1
Speed or EPR or Cockpit indications Used for Aircraft Certification OR
Maximum Range
±5%
1
1%.
3
Prop. speed and Torque (Sample Once/Sec as Close together as Practicable)
1 (prop Speed)
1 (torque)
1%.
3
1%.
3
Altitude Rate
2
(need depends on altitude resolution)
±8,000 fpm
±10%. Resolution 250 fpm below 12,000 ft. indicated.
1
250 fpm. below 12,000.
Angle of Attack
2
(need depends on altitude resolution)
−20° to 40° or 100% of usable range
±2°
1
0.8%.
3
Radio Transmitter Keying (Discrete)
On/Off
1
TE Flaps (Discrete or Analog)
Each discrete position (U, D, T/O, AAP) OR
1
LE Flaps (Discrete or Analog)
Analog 0-100% range
±3%
1
1%.
3
Each discrete position (U, D, T/O, AAP) OR
1
Thrust Reverser, Each Engine (Discrete)
Analog 0-100% range
±3°
1
1%.
3
Stowed or full reverse
Spoiler/Speedbrake (Discrete)
Stowed or out
1
Autopilot Engaged (Discrete)
Engaged or Disengaged
1
1
When data sources are aircraft instruments (except altimeters) of acceptable quality to fly the aircraft the recording system excluding these sensors (but including all other characteristics of the recording system) shall contribute no more than half of the values in this column.
2
If data from the altitude encoding altimeter (100 ft. resolution) is used, then either one of these parameters should also be recorded. If, however, altitude is recorded at a minimum resolution of 25 feet, then these two parameters can be omitted.
3
Percent of full range.
§ 194.312
Powered-lift in vertical-lift flight mode, flight recorder specifications under part 135 of this chapter.
Table 1 to § 194.312
Parameters
Range
Installed system
1
minimum
accuracy (to
recovered data)
Sampling interval (per second)
Resolution read out
Relative time (from recorded on prior to takeoff)
25 hr minimum
±0.125% per hour
1
1 sec.
Indicated airspeed
V
m
in to V
D
(KIAS) (minimum airspeed signal attainable with installed pilot-static system)
±5% or ±10 kts., whichever is greater
1
1 kt.
Altitude
−1,000 ft. to 20,000 ft. pressure altitude
±100 to ±700 ft. (see Table 1, TSO C51-a)
1
25 to 150 ft.
Magnetic heading
360°
±5°
1
1°.
Vertical acceleration
−3g to + 6g
±0.2g in addition to ±0.3g maximum datum
4 (or 1 per second where peaks, ref. to 1g are recorded)
0.05g.
Longitudinal acceleration
±1.0g
±1.5% max. range excluding datum error of ±5%
2
0.03g.
Pitch attitude
100% of usable range
±2°
1
0.8°.
Roll attitude
±60° or 100% of usable range, whichever is greater
±2°
1
0.8°.
Altitude rate
±8,000 fpm
±10% Resolution 250 fpm below 12,000 ft. indicated
1
250 fpm below 12,000.
Engine Power, Each Engine:
Main rotor speed
Maximum range
±5%
1
1%.
2
Free or power turbine
Maximum range
+ 5%
1
1%.
2
Engine torque
Maximum range
±5%
1
1%.
2
Flight Control—Hydraulic Pressure:
Primary (discrete)
High/low
1
Secondary—if applicable (discrete)
High/low
1
Radio transmitter keying (discrete)
On/off
1
Autopilot engaged (discrete)
Engaged or disengaged
1
SAS status—engaged (discrete)
Engaged/disengaged
1
SAS fault status (discrete)
Fault/OK
1
Flight Controls:
Primary Controls (I.E. Ascent, descent, acceleration, and deceleration, heading and directional control for all axis)
3
Full range
±3%
2
1%.
2
Controllable Stabilator Position
3
Full range
±3%
2
1%.
2
1
When data sources are aircraft instruments (except altimeters) of acceptable quality to fly the aircraft the recording system excluding these sensors (but including all other characteristics of the recording system) shall contribute no more than half of the values in this column.
2
Percent of full range.
3
For all aircraft manufactured on or after December 6, 2010, the sampling interval per second is 4.
§ 194.313
Powered-lift in wing-borne flight mode, flight recorder specification under part 135 of this chapter.
Table 1 to § 194.313
Parameters
Range
Installed system
1
minimum
accuracy (to
recovered data)
Sampling interval (per second)
Resolution read out
Relative time (from recorded on prior to takeoff)
25 hr minimum
±0.125% per hour
1
1 sec.
Indicated airspeed
V
so
to V
D
(KIAS)
±5% or ±10 kts., whichever is greater. Resolution 2 kts. below 175 KIAS
1
1%.
3
Altitude
−1,000 ft. to max cert. alt. of A/C
±100 to ±700 ft. (see Table 1, TSO C51-a)
1
25 to 150
Magnetic heading
360°
±5°
1
1°
Vertical acceleration
−3g to + 6g
±0.2g in addition to ±0.3g maximum datum
4 (or 1 per second where peaks, ref. to 1g are recorded)
0.03g.
Longitudinal acceleration
±1.0g
±1.5% max. range excluding datum error of ±5%
2
0.01g.
Pitch attitude
100% of usable
±2°
1
0.8°
Roll attitude
±60° or 100% of usable range, whichever is greater
±2°
1
0.8°
Stabilizer trim position
Full range
±3% unless higher uniquely required
1
1%.
3
Or
Pitch control position
Full range
±3% unless higher uniquely required
1
1%.
3
Engine Power, Each Engine
Fan or N
1
speed or EPR or cockpit indications used for aircraft certification
Maximum range
±5%
1
1%.
3
Or
Prop. speed and torque (sample once/sec as close together as practicable)
1 (prop speed), 1 (torque)
Altitude rate
2
(need depends on altitude resolution)
±8,000 fpm
±10%. Resolution 250 fpm below 12,000 ft. indicated
1
250 fpm Below 12,000
Angle of attack
2
(need depends on altitude resolution)
−20° to 40° or of usable range
±2°
1
0.8%.
3
Radio transmitter keying (discrete)
On/off
1
TE flaps (discrete or analog)
Each discrete position (U, D, T/O, AAP)
1
Or
Analog 0-100% range
±3°
1
1%.
3
LE flaps (discrete or analog)
Each discrete position (U, D, T/O, AAP)
1
Or
Analog 0-100% range
±3°
1
1%.
3
Thrust reverser, each engine (Discrete)
Stowed or full reverse
1
Spoiler/speedbrake (discrete)
Stowed or out
1
Autopilot engaged (discrete)
Engaged or disengaged
1
1
When data sources are aircraft instruments (except altimeters) of acceptable quality to fly the aircraft the recording system excluding these sensors (but including all other characteristics of the recording system) shall contribute no more than half of the values in this column.
2
If data from the altitude encoding altimeter (100 ft. resolution) is used, then either one of these parameters should also be recorded. If, however, altitude is recorded at a minimum resolution of 25 feet, then these two parameters can be omitted.
3
Percent of full range.

# Subpart D—Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, Rebuilding, and Alteration Requirements for Powered-Lift Under Part 43 of This Chapter
§ 194.401
Applicability.
Unless otherwise specified by this part, powered-lift must continue to comply with rules applicable to all aircraft in part 43 of this chapter.
§ 194.402
Maintenance provisions.
The following maintenance provisions under part 43 of this chapter that pertain to rotorcraft also apply to powered-lift:
(a) Section 43.3(h) of this chapter applies to certificate holders operating powered-lift under part 135 of this chapter in a remote area; and
(b) In lieu of complying with § 43.15(b) of this chapter, each person performing an inspection required by part 91 of this chapter on a powered-lift shall inspect critical parts in accordance with the maintenance manual or Instruction for Continuous Airworthiness, or as otherwise approved by the Administrator.
(1) A “critical part” has the same meaning as provided in §§ 27.602 and 29.602 of this chapter.
(2) [Reserved]

# Appendix A to Part 194—Minimum Requirements for a Pilot Training Program in a Powered-Lift Originally Type Certificated or Seeking Type Certification With One Set of Controls and a Single Pilot Station

# 1. Applicability
(a) This appendix prescribes the minimum requirements to apply for a pilot training program for the following ratings in a powered-lift originally type certificated or seeking type certification with one set of controls and a single pilot station:
(1) Powered-lift Category;
(2) Powered-lift Type;
(3) Instrument-Powered-lift.
(b) Notwithstanding the exceptions in § 194.211, a person utilizing the alternate pathway set forth in this appendix must apply for all three ratings simultaneously.

# 2. Eligibility
(a) To utilize the alternate framework set forth by this appendix, an applicant must be qualified in accordance with the requirements set forth by § 194.215(a).
(b) The alternate framework set forth in this appendix may only be provided under a part 135, 141, or 142 approved training program.

# 3. Ground Training
(a) An applicant must receive and log all required ground training set forth by §§ 61.63(b) and 61.65(b) of this chapter prior to receiving training in accordance with section 4. of this appendix.
(b) Following the required ground training as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, an applicant must successfully complete a written or oral check administered by the training provider.

# 4. Simulator Training in a Level C or Higher Full Flight Simulator Representative of a Powered-Lift With Single Controls and a Single Pilot Station
(a) In lieu of flight training in a powered-lift with single controls and a single pilot station, an applicant seeking a powered-lift category rating, instrument rating, and a type rating may complete all applicable flight training requirements prescribed in part 61 of this chapter or the corresponding framework prescribed in §§ 194.217 through 194.235 (except for the cross-country requirements in § 194.233), as applicable, in a qualified Level C or higher full flight simulator representative of the powered-lift type with single controls and a single pilot station.
(b) Following the training set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the applicant must satisfactorily accomplish a check with a check pilot, a training center evaluator, an authorized instructor, instructor pilot, an FAA aviation safety inspector, or another person authorized by the FAA to administer this check in a qualified Level C or higher full flight simulator in accordance with the approved training program. The check must consist of oral questioning followed by the satisfactory performance of all the maneuvers and procedures required for the issuance of a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, for the issuance of an instrument-powered-lift rating and for the issuance of a powered-lift type rating, except those tasks waived in accordance with § 194.207(c).

# 5. Aircraft Familiarity Flight
(a) Within 90 days of an applicant's successful completion of the check set forth by section 4.(b) of this appendix, the applicant must observe an aircraft familiarity flight with an authorized instructor.
(b) The aircraft familiarity flight must include the following components:
(1) The authorized instructor must demonstrate the flight maneuvers and procedures required for the issuance of a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, for the issuance of an instrument-powered-lift rating and for the issuance of a powered-lift type rating, except those tasks waived in accordance with § 194.207(c), in the aircraft in flight, and
(2) The applicant must have unobstructed visual sight of the controls and instrumentation and maintain active communication with the authorized instructor for the entire flight.
(c) The aircraft familiarity flight may occur during one flight or over multiple flights.
(d) Following successful completion of the aircraft familiarity flight, the authorized instructor may endorse the applicant to act as pilot in command of the specific powered-lift to accomplish the demonstration flight with an authorized instructor on board as set forth in section 6.(a) of this appendix. The endorsement is valid for 90 days from the date of successful completion of the full flight simulator check set forth by section 4.(b) of this appendix.

# 6. Demonstration and Solo Flights
(a)
Demonstration flight.
(1) After an applicant receives an endorsement to act as PIC in accordance with section 5.(d) of this appendix, the applicant must complete a demonstration flight under the direct observation of an authorized instructor.
(2) The demonstration flight must include the following components:
(i) The applicant must demonstrate the flight maneuvers and procedures required for the issuance of a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, for the issuance of an instrument-powered-lift rating and for the issuance of a powered-lift type rating, except those tasks waived in accordance with § 194.207(c), in the aircraft in flight, and
(ii) The authorized instructor must have unobstructed visual sight of the controls and instrumentation and maintain active communication with the applicant for the entire flight.
(3) The demonstration flight may occur during one flight or over multiple flights.
(4) Upon determination that the applicant has demonstrated satisfactory proficiency in the aircraft, the check pilot, training center evaluator, authorized instructor, instructor pilot, FAA aviation safety inspector, or another person authorized by the FAA to administer this check may endorse the applicant to act as pilot in command of the specific powered-lift to conduct solo flight in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The endorsement is valid for 90 days from the day the demonstration flight is successfully completed.
(b)
Failure to complete demonstration flight during endorsement period.
(1) If the applicant does not successfully complete the demonstration flight in paragraph (a) of this section within the 90-day endorsement period, the applicant may receive another endorsement by:
(i) Completing a demonstration of proficiency in the full flight simulator consisting of the tasks and maneuvers set forth by section 10. of this appendix, in addition to any maneuvers or procedures deemed necessary by the check pilot, training center evaluator, authorized instructor, instructor pilot, an FAA aviation safety inspector, or other person authorized by the FAA to administer this check to ensure proficiency, and
(ii) Completing an aircraft familiarity flight meeting the requirements of section 5.(b) of this appendix.
(2) After the applicant meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the applicant may receive another endorsement for the applicant to act as pilot in command of the specific powered-lift to accomplish the demonstration flight with an authorized instructor on board as set forth in section 6.(a) of this appendix. This endorsement is valid for 90 days from the day the demonstration of proficiency in the full flight simulator was successfully completed.
(c)
Solo Flights.
After an applicant receives an endorsement to conduct solo flights in accordance with section 6.(a)(4) of this appendix, the applicant must complete 20 hours of solo flight in the aircraft, which must include:
(1) 10 hours of solo flight time in accordance with § 61.129(e)(4) or the corresponding alternate provision set forth in §§ 194.217 through 194.231 of this part;
(2) 10 hours of solo flight time that includes the maneuvers and procedures required for the issuance of a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating, for the issuance of an instrument-powered-lift rating and for the issuance of a powered-lift type rating; and
(3) The alternate cross-country aeronautical experience requirements prescribed in § 194.233 of this part.
(d)
Lapse of endorsement for solo flights.
If the applicant does not successfully complete the solo flight time required in paragraph (c) of this section within the 90-day endorsement period, the applicant may receive another 90-day endorsement by satisfying the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.
(1) If the applicant seeks to renew the endorsement for another 90-day period and is within the 90-day period of the original endorsement, the applicant must complete a demonstration flight consisting of the tasks and maneuvers set forth by section 10. of this appendix, in addition to any maneuvers or procedures deemed necessary by the check pilot, training center evaluator, authorized instructor, instructor pilot, FAA aviation safety inspector, or another person authorized by the FAA to ensure proficiency.
(2) If the applicant seeks another endorsement outside the 90-day period of the original endorsement, the applicant must:
(i) The applicant must satisfactorily complete a demonstration of proficiency in the full flight simulator consisting of the tasks and maneuvers set forth by section 10. of this appendix, in addition to any maneuvers or procedures deemed necessary by the authorized instructor to ensure proficiency, successful completion of which will result in a 90-day endorsement to accomplish a demonstration flight with an authorized instructor on board; and
(ii) The applicant must complete a demonstration flight with a check pilot, training center evaluator, authorized instructor, instructor pilot, FAA aviation safety inspector, or another person authorized by the FAA to administer this check consisting of the tasks and maneuvers set forth by section 10. of this appendix, in addition to any maneuvers or procedures deemed necessary by the authorized instructor to ensure proficiency.

# 7. Practical Test
(a) The applicant may meet the training requirements of § 61.129(e)(3)(iv) in a Level C or higher FFS.
(b) A person who uses a flight simulator or flight training device for any portion of the practical test in accordance with § 61.64(a) of this chapter after training in accordance with this appendix and does not meet the requirements of § 61.64(e) of this chapter will—
(1) Receive a limitation that states “the certificate is subject to certain pilot in command limitations,” in lieu of the limitation set forth by § 61.64(f); and
(2) Be restricted from the carriage of persons or property other than necessary for the conduct of the flight.
(c) The limitation described under paragraph (b) of this section may be removed from the pilot certificate by meeting the requirements set forth in section 8. of this appendix.

# 8. Supervised Operating Experience for a Powered-Lift With Single Controls and a Single Pilot Station
(a) The limitation set forth in paragraph 7.(b) of this appendix may be removed if the pilot complies with the following:
(1) Performs 10 hours of flight time in an aircraft of category and type for which the limitation applies under the observation of a pilot who holds a category and type rating without limitations for the aircraft, maintaining full communication with the observing pilot;
(2) Logs each flight and the observing pilot attests in writing to each flight; and
(3) Presents evidence of the supervised operating experience to any examiner or Flight Standards office to have the limitation removed.
(b) The flight time required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include a cross-country flight in a powered-lift under instrument flight rules on a flight plan filed with an air traffic control facility that involves—
(i) A flight of at least 100 nautical miles along airways or by directed routing from an air traffic control facility;
(ii) An instrument approach at each airport; and
(iii) Three different kinds of approaches with the use of navigation systems.
(c) The observing pilot must have unobstructed visual sight of the controls and instrumentation.

# 9. Deviation Authority
The Administrator may authorize a deviation from the simulator qualification requirement in section 4. of this appendix stipulating that training must be completed in a qualified Level C or higher full flight simulator upon a determination by the Administrator that—
(a) The alternative training device is of adequate fidelity to be used as a substitution for in-aircraft flight training; and
(b) The effectiveness and objectives of the training program can be met utilizing the alternative training device.

# 10. Maneuvers and Procedures Required for Certain Flights Prescribed by This Appendix
This section sets forth the maneuvers and procedures required for flights required in accordance with sections 6.(b)(1)(i), 6.(d)(1), 6.(d)(2)(i), and 6.(d)(2)(ii) of this appendix, except those maneuvers and procedures under tasks waived in accordance with § 194.207(c).
(a) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, powerplant operation, and aircraft systems;
(b) Taxiing or surface operations, including runups;
(c) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind;
(d) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions;
(e) Climbs and climbing turns;
(f) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures;
(g) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance;
(h) Descents with and without turns;
(i) Flight at various airspeeds from cruise to slow flight;
(j) Stall entries from various flight attitudes and power combinations with recovery initiated at the first indication of a stall, and recovery from a full stall;
(k) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(l) Ground reference maneuvers;
(m) Approaches to a landing with simulated engine malfunctions;
(n) Go-arounds;
(o) Approaches to the landing area;
(p) Hovering and hovering turns; and
(q) For a multiengine powered-lift, simulated one-engine-inoperative approaches and landings.
SUBCHAPTER M [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER N—WAR RISK INSURANCE
Pt. 198

# PART 198—AVIATION INSURANCE
Sec.
198.1
Eligibility of aircraft operation for insurance.
198.3
Basis of insurance.
198.5
Types of insurance coverage available.
198.7
Amount of insurance coverage available.
198.9
Application for insurance.
198.11
Change in status of aircraft.
198.13
Premium insurance—payment of premiums.
198.15
Non-premium insurance—payment of registration binders.
198.17
Ground support and other coverage.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40113, 44301-44310; 49 CFR 1.47(b).

# Source:
Docket 28893, 63 FR 13739, Mar. 20, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 198.1
Eligibility of aircraft operation for insurance.
An aircraft operation is eligible for insurance if—
(a) The President of the United States has determined that the continuation of that aircraft operation is necessary to carry out the foreign policy of the United States;
(b) The aircraft operation is—
(1) In foreign air commerce or between two or more places all of which are outside the United States if insurance with premium is sought; or
(2) In domestic or foreign air commerce, or between two or more places all of which are outside the United States if insurance without premium is sought; and
(c) The Administrator finds that commercial insurance against loss or damage arising out of any risk from the aircraft operation cannot be obtained on reasonable terms from an insurance carrier.
§ 198.3
Basis of insurance.
(a) Premium insurance may be issued by the FAA is the requirements of § 198.1 (a), (b)(1) and (c) are met.
(b) Subject to § 198.9(c), standby insurance without premium may be issued by the FAA if all of the following conditions have been met:
(1) A department, agency, or instrumentality of the U.S. Government seeks performance of air services operations, pursuant to a contract of the department, agency, or instrumentality; or transportation of military forces or materiel on behalf of the United States, pursuant to an agreement between the United States and a foreign government.
(2) Such department, agency, or instrumentality of the U.S. Government has agreed in writing to indemnify the Secretary of Transportation against all losses covered by such insurance. Such an agreement, when countersigned by the President, constitutes a determination that the continuation of that aircraft operation is necessary to carry out the foreign policy of the United States.
(3) A current copy of the aircraft operator's applicable commercial insurance policy or policies is on file with the FAA, including every endorsement making a material change to the policy. Updated copies of these policies must be provided upon each renewal of the commercial policy. Every subsequent material change by endorsement must be promptly provided to the FAA.
(c) Insurance is activated, placing the insurance in full force, as specified by the FAA's written notification to the operator and remains in force until such time as either of the following occurs:
(1) The requirements in § 198.1 are no longer met; or
(2) In the case of non-premium insurance, an aircraft operation is no longer performed under contract to a department, agency, or instrumentality of the U.S. Government; or pursuant to an agreement between the United States and a foreign government; or the Administrator finds that commercial insurance can now be obtained on reasonable terms.
(d) Insurance policies revert to standby status upon written notification by the FAA to the aircraft operator. A policy will remain in standby status until either—
(1) The insurance is activated by written notice; or
(2) The policy is canceled.
§ 198.5
Types of insurance coverage available.
Application may be made for insurance against loss or damage to the following persons, property, or interests:
(a) Aircraft, or insurable items of an aircraft, engaged in eligible operations under § 198.1.
(b) Any individual employed or transported on the aircraft referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The baggage of persons referred to in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Property transported, or to be transported, on the aircraft referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) Statutory or contractual obligations, or any other liability, of the aircraft referred to in paragraph (a) of this section or of its owner or operator, of the nature customarily covered by insurance.
§ 198.7
Amount of insurance coverage available.
(a) For each aircraft or insurable item, the amount insured may not exceed the amount for which the applicant has otherwise insured or self-insured the aircraft or insurable item against damage or liability arising from any risk. In the case of hull insurance, the amount insured may not exceed the reasonable value of the aircraft as determined by the FAA or its designated agent.
(b) Policies issued without premium may be revised from time to time by the FAA with notice to the insured, to add aircraft or insurable items or to amend amounts of coverage if the insured has changed the amount by which it has otherwise insured or self-insured the aircraft or itself.
§ 198.9
Applicant for insurance.
(a) Application for premium or non-premium insurance must be made in accordance with the applicable form supplied by the FAA.
(b) Each applicant for insurance with the premium under this part must submit to the FAA with its application a letter describing in detail the operations in which the aircraft is or will be engaged and stating the type of insurance coverage being sought and the reason it is being sought. The applicant must also submit any other information deemed pertinent by the FAA.
(c) Each applicant for premium or non-premium insurance must, upon request by the FAA, submit to the FAA evidence that commercial insurance is not available on reasonable terms for each flight or ground operation for which insurance is sought. Each aircraft operator who has a standby non-premium insurance policy must, upon request by the FAA, submit evidence to the FAA that commercial insurance is not available on reasonable terms before the FAA activates that policy. The adequacy of the evidence submitted is determined solely by the FAA.
(d) The standby non-premium policy issued to the aircraft operator does not provide actual coverage until formally activated by the FAA.
§ 198.11
Change in status of aircraft.
In the event of sale, lease, confiscation, requisition, total loss, or other change in the status of an aircraft or insurable items covered by insurance under this part, the insured party must notify the office administering the Aviation Insurance Program before, or as soon as practicable after, the change in status.
§ 198.13
Premium insurance—payment of premiums.
The insured must pay the premium for insurance issued under this part within the stated period after receipt of notice that premium payment is due and in accordance with the provisions of the applicable FAA insurance policy. Premiums must be sent to the FAA, and made payable to the FAA.
§ 198.15
Non-premium insurance—payment of registration binders.
(a) The binder for initial registration is $575 for each aircraft or insurable item. This binder is adjusted not more frequently than annually based on changes in the Consumer Price Index of All Urban Consumers published by the Secretary of Labor.
(b) An application for non-premium insurance must be accompanied by the proper binder, payable to the FAA. A binder is not returnable unless the application is rejected.
(c) Requests made after issuance of a non-premium policy for the addition of an aircraft or insurable item must be accompanied by the binder for each aircraft and insurable item.
(d) When an operator acquires an aircraft or insurable item that was previously covered under an active or standby policy, the new operator must register that aircraft or item on its policy and pay the binder for each aircraft and insurable item.
§ 198.17
Ground support and other coverage.
An aircraft operator may apply for insurance to cover any risks arising from the provision of goods or services directly supporting the operation of an aircraft that meets the requirements of § 198.3(b).
PART 199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
14 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
14 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
121 Technical correction
44692
121.333 (c)(3) revised
16900
121.400 (a) and (c)(3) revised; (c)(4) through (11) redesignated as (c)(5) through (12); new (c)(4) added
10921
121.401 (a)(4) revised
10921
121.403 (b)(4) amended
10921
121.407 Heading, (a) introductory text, and (b) through (e) revised
10921
121.409 Heading, (a), (b) introductory text, (1), (2)(ii)(B), (
4
), (
5
), (c)(1), (2), and (d) revised; (b)(2)(ii)(B)(
6
) added; undesignated paragraph following (b)(3) removed
10921
121.409 (c)(1) revised
39070
121.411 (a)(1), (2), (b)(4), (f)(1), and (2) amended
10922
121.412 (a)(1), (2), (b)(4), (f)(1), and (2) amended
10922
121.413 (a)(2), (c)(7) introductory text, (iv), (d)(2) introductory text, (iv), (f), (g) introductory text, (1), (2), and (h) amended
10922
121.414 (a)(2), (c)(8) introductory text, (iv), (d)(2) introductory text, (iv), (e)(3)(i), (f), (g) introductory text, (1), (2), and (h) amended
10922
121.415 (f) through (j) redesignated as (g) through (k); new (f) added; (b), (e), new (g), new (h) introductory text, new (j), and new (k) revised
10922
121.417 (b)(3)(ii) amended
10922
121.418 (a)(2) and (c) revised
10922
121.419 (c) through (e) redesignated as (d) through (f); heading, (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, and new (f)(2) revised; new (c) and (g) added
10922
121.420 Added
10923
121.423 Heading amended
10923
121.424 (b) through (e) redesignated as (c) through (f); heading, (a) introductory text, new (c)(1), new (3), new (d) introductory text, new (e) introductory text, new (1)(i), new (ii), and new (2) revised; new (b) and (g) added
10923
121.424 (f) revised
39070
121.425 (b) and (c) redesignated as (c) and (d); undesignated paragraph following (a)(2)(iii) designated as new (b) and revised; (a)(1), (2)(iii), new (c), and new (d) introductory text amended
10923
121.426 Added
10924
121.427 (d) and (e) redesignated as (e) and (f); new (d) added; (a), (b)(2), (4), (c), new (e)(1)(ii), new (2)(ii), and new (f)(1) revised
10924
121.429 Added
10925
121.431 (a)(1) revised
10925
121.432 (a) revised
10925
121.433 (a)(2) and (c)(2) revised
10925
121.434 (b)(3), (c)(1)(ii), and (3)(iii) revised; (b)(4) added
10925
121.435 Added
10925
121.439 (a), (b) introductory text, (1), (d), (e), and (f)(2)(ii) revised; (c) removed
10926
121.441 (a) introductory text, (1)(i)(B), (ii)(B), (2)(i), (ii), (c), (d), and (e) revised
10926
121 Appendix E amended
10926
121 Appendix F amended
10929
121 Appendix H amended
10934
125 Amended
26350
125 Special FAA conditions
38783
125 Technical correction
47295
125 Amended; interim; eff. through 4-21-21
62975
135.3 (d) added
10935
141 Amended
26350
141 Special FAA conditions
38783
141 Technical correction
47295
141 Amended; interim; eff. through 4-21-21
62975
150 Notification
68747
187 Policy statement
78223
2021
14 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
111 Added
31060
111 Correction: Instruction amended
32185
111.10 Amended; eff. 9-10-29
31067
111.15 (a) removed; (b) through (f) redesignated as new (a) through (e)
31067
111.100 (b) removed; (c) redesignated as new (b); eff. 6-10-22
31067
111.200 (b) revised; eff. 6-10-22
31067
111.200 (b) revised; eff. 9-10-29
31067
111.205 (b)(2) removed; (b)(3) redesignated as new (b)(2); eff. 9-9-24
31067
111.215 (a) revised; eff. 9-9-24
31067
111.215 (c) removed; eff 9-8-27
31067
111.255 Removed; eff. 9-10-29
31067
141 Notification
36493
2022
14 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
111 Policy statement
70707
121 Authority citation revised
61465
121.310 (b)(2)(iii) amended
75846
121.311 (b)(2)(ii)(C) introductory text amended
75846
121.359 (h) amended
75846
121.391 (d) amended
75846
121.436 (a)(3), (c), and (d) revised; (e) added
57590
121.467 (b)(2) and (3) revised
61465
121.523 (c) amended
75846
121.703 (f) amended
75846
121.909 (a) amended
75846
121.923 (a)(2) amended
75846
121.1115 Table 2 amended
75847
125.285 (d) amended
75847
129 Policy statement
58725
129.18 (b) introductory text amended
75847
129.115 Table 2 revised
75847
135.415 (f) amended
75848
141 Appendix I amended
75848
147 Revised; interim
31415
183.11 (d) amended
75848
183.25 (c) revised
75849
111 Policy statement
70707
121 Authority citation revised
61465
121.310 (b)(2)(iii) amended
75846
121.311 (b)(2)(ii)(C) introductory text amended
75846
121.359 (h) amended
75846
121.391 (d) amended
75846
121.436 (a)(3), (c), and (d) revised; (e) added
57590
121.467 (b)(2) and (3) revised
61465
121.523 (c) amended
75846
121.703 (f) amended
75846
121.909 (a) amended
75846
121.923 (a)(2) amended
75846
121.1115 Table 2 amended
75847
125.285 (d) amended
75847
129 Policy statement
58725
129.18 (b) introductory text amended
75847
129.115 Table 2 revised
75847
135.415 (f) amended
75848
141 Appendix I amended
75848
147 Revised; interim
31415
183.11 (d) amended
75848
183.25 (c) revised
75849
2023
14 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
110 Authority citation revised
48087
110.2 Amended
48087
119 Authority citation revised
48088
119.1 (a)(2), (e) introductory text, (2), (4)(v), (5), (7) introductory text, (i), (iii), and (vii) revised; (a)(3) added
48088
119.5 (b) and (c) revised
48089
119.21 (a) introductory text revised
48089
119.23 Heading, (a) introductory text, (2), and (b) introductory text revised
48089
119.49 (a)(12), (b)(12), and (c)(11) revised
48089
119.65 (a)(3) and (b)(2) revised
48089
119.67 Revised
48089
120.7 Revised
27635
120.111 (d) amended
27636
120.119 (b) amended
27636
120.219 (b)(2) amended
27636
120.221 (d) amended
27636
121 Technical correction
2813
121.1 (c) and (g) revised
48090
121.135 (a) introductory text revised; (a)(2) amended; (a)(3) removed; (a)(4) redesignated as new (a)(3)
34443
121.139 Revised
34443
121.313 (l) added
41308
121.470 (a) and (b) amended
48090
121.480 (a) amended
48090
121.500 (a) amended
48090
121.584 (a)(3) added
41308
125 Technical correction
2813
125 Heading revised
48090
125.1 (a), (b) introductory text, (4), (c), and (e) Revised
48090
125.23 Introductory text revised
48090
125.71 (f) revised
34443
125.73 Introductory text revised
34443
129 Technical correction
2813
135 Technical correction
2813
135.21 (f) and (g) revised; (h) removed
34443
135.23 Introductory text revised
34443
136 Heading revised
48091
136.1 (a), (b) introductory text, and (c) revised; (d) amended
48091
136.3 Revised
48091
136.5 Revised
48091
136.9 Heading and (b)(1) through (3) revised
48091
136.11 Revised
48091
136.13 Revised
48091
136.71—136.75 (Subpart D) Added
48092
136 Appendix A Removed
48092
139 Authority citation revised
11671
139.5 Amended
11671
139.101 (c) removed
11672
139.103 (b) revised
11672
139.203 (b) table amended
11672
139.301 (b)(1) revised; (b)(9) and (10) added
11672
139.303 (e)(5) and (6) revised; (e)(7) added
11672
139.401—139.403 (Subpart E) Added
11672
141 Technical correction
2813
147 Regulation at 87 FR 31415 comment period reopened
15905
147 Regulation at 87 FR 31415 confirmed
38395
183 Technical correction
2813
2024
14 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
111.1 (b)(4) introductory text revised; (b)(4)(iii) added; eff. 1-21-25
92486
119.8 Revised
33109
120 Authority citation revised
103447
120 Technical correction
105447
120.1 Revised; eff. 1-17-25
103447
120.1 (d) revised; eff. 1-20-27
103447
120.5 Revised; eff. 1-17-25
103447
120.9 Added; eff. 1-17-25
103447
120.10 Added; eff. 1-17-25
103447
120.117 (a)(5) and (c) revised; (a)(6) redesignated as (a)(7); new (a)(6) added; eff. 1-17-25
103448
120.117 (c)(2) revised; eff. 1-2-27
103449
120.123 (a) introductory text, (1), and (b) revised; eff. 1-17-25
103449
120.225 (a)(5), (c), (d) introductory text, and (1) revised; (a)(6) redesignated as (a)(7); new (a)(6) added; eff. 1-17-25
103449
120.225 (c)(2) revised; eff. 1-20-27
103450
120.227 (a) introductory text, (1), and (b) revised; eff. 1-17-25
103450
121.141 (b) introductory text revised
12663
121.317 (a) revised
68100
121.317 Regulation at 89 FR 68100 confirmed
81313
121.401 (a)(1), (4), (c), and (e) revised; undesignated text following (e) removed
51425
121.402 (b)(4) revised
51425
121.403 (b)(2) revised
51425
121.404 Revised
51425
121.407 (a)(5) and (e) revised
51425
121.408 (d) introductory text and (1) revised; (f) removed
51425
121.409 (b)(2)(ii) revised
51425
121.411 Revised
51425
121.412 Revised
51426
121.413 Revised
51426
121.414 Heading, (a)(2), (c)(8) introductory text, (iv), (d)(2) introductory text, (iv), and (f) through (h) revised; (i) removed
51427
121.415 (e) revised; (k) removed
51427
121.419 (c) and (f) revised; (g) removed
51427
121.419 Correction: Amended
57730
121.420 (c) removed
51427
121.423 (f) removed
51427
121.424 (b) revised; (f) and (g) removed
51427
121.426 (d) removed
51428
121.427 (e)(1)(ii)(B) and (f) revised
51428
121.429 (a) introductory text revised
51428
121.433 (d) revised; (e) removed
51428
121.434 (d) introductory text revised
51428
121.439 (b)(1) and (e) revised
51428
121.440 (b)(1) and (c)(1) revised
51428
121.441 (a)(1)(i), (ii), and (b)(2) revised
51428
121.445 (d)(2) revised
51428
121.544 Revised
51428
121.915 (b)(2)(iii) revised
51428
121.919 (e) revised
51428
121 Appendix E and Appendix F amended
51429
121 Appendix H
51430
121 Correction: Amended
57730
125.3 (a) introductory text amended; (c)(1)(xi) revised
48269
125.75 (b) revised
12663
125.207 (a)(3) revised
68100
125.207 Regulation at 89 FR 68100 confirmed
81313
125.217 (a) revised
68100
125.217 Regulation at 89 FR 68100 confirmed
81313
128.200 (c)(2) revised
48269
129 Policy statement
66546
129.1 (c)(2) redesignated as (c)(4); new (c)(2) and (3) added; eff. 1-16-25
101880
129.7 (c)(5) and (d) revised; eff. 1-16-25
101880
129.9 (a)(3) and (b)(3) revised; eff. 1-16-25
101880
135 Authority citation revised
67850
135.1 (d) added; eff. 1-21-25
92486
135.3 (d)(1) and (2) revised
51430
135.100 (d) added; note removed; eff. 1-21-25
92486
135.113 Revised
51430
135.117 (g) added
67850
135.128 (a)(1) revised
67850
135.152 (j) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92486
135.165 (d) introductory text amended; eff. 1-21-25
92486
135.179 (b)(1) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92486
135.243 (a) through (c) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92486
135.244 (a) introductory text amended; eff. 1-21-25
92487
135.245 (c)(1) introductory text revised; eff. 1-21-25
92487
135.293 (a)(9), (b), and (c) revised; (h) removed; eff. 1-21-25
92487
135.297 (c)(2) revised
51430
135.297 (c)(1)(i), (ii), and (g)(3) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92487
135.297 (g)(3) revised; eff. 7-21-25
92488
135.321 (a)(2) revised
51430
135.323 (a)(1), (4), and (c) revised
51430
135.324 (b)(4) revised
51431
135.337 Revised
51431
135.338 Revised
51431
135.339 (a) introductory text, (1), (c) introductory text, (1), (d), (e) introductory text, and (g) introductory text revised
51431
135.339 (e)(3) and (4) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92488
135.339 Correction: Heading revised
105448
135.340 (a)(2) and (g) introductory text revised
51432
135.340 (e)(3) and (4) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92488
135.340 Correction: Heading revised
105448
136 Authority citation revised
67850
136.1 (f) added; eff. 1-21-25
92488
136.7 (c) added
67850
136.75 (a) introductory text revised; eff. 1-21-25
92488
141 Authority citation revised
80053
141.1 Revised; eff. 1-21-25
92488
141.11 (b)(2)(ix) and (4) added
80054
141.37 (a)(3)(ii) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92488
141 Appendix K amended
80054
142.1 (d) added; eff. 1-21-25
92488
142.11 (d)(2)(iii) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92488
142.47 (a)(5) and (c)(2)(ii) revised; eff. 1-21-25
92488
142.53 (b)(2)(i) and (3)(i) amended; eff. 1-21-25
92489
142.57 (c) amended; eff. 1-21-25
92489
194 (Subchapter L) Added; eff. 1-21-25
92489
○
