(2) Objections in the consideration of summary judgment motions or answers thereto based upon a failure to strictly comply with the provisions of Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure may, at the discretion of the ALJ, be overruled.
(g)
Motions for dismissal.
When a motion to dismiss the proceeding is granted, the ALJ shall make and file a determination and order in accordance with the provisions of § 26.50.
§ 26.41
Default.
(a)
General.
The respondent may be found in default, upon motion, for failure to file a timely response to the Government's complaint. The motion shall include a copy of the complaint and a proposed default order, and shall be served upon all parties. The respondent shall have 10 days from such service to respond to the motion.
(b)
Default order.
The ALJ shall issue a decision on the motion within 15 days after the expiration of the time for filing a response to the default motion. If a default order is issued, it shall constitute the final agency action.
(c)
Effect of default.
A default shall constitute an admission of all facts alleged in the Government's complaint and a waiver of respondent's right to a hearing on such allegations. The penalty proposed in the complaint shall be set forth in the default order and shall be immediately due and payable by respondent without further proceedings.

# Discovery
§ 26.42
Discovery.
(a)
General.
The parties are encouraged to engage in voluntary discovery procedures, which may commence at any time after an answer has been filed. Parties may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the claim or defense of any party, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any books, documents, or other tangible things and the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter. For good cause, the ALJ may order discovery of any matter relevant to the subject matter of the action. To be relevant, information need not be admissible at the hearing, if the discovery appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Each party shall bear its own expenses associated with discovery.
(b)
Discovery in Program Fraud Civil Remedies Actions.
(1) Upon receipt of a complaint, the defendant may, upon written request to the Office of General Counsel, review any relevant and material nonprivileged documents, including any exculpatory documents, that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint. Exculpatory information that is contained in a privileged document must be disclosed; however, the privileged document need not be provided.
(2) With the exception of the limited discovery permitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, unless agreed to by the parties, discovery shall be available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ shall order only that discovery that he or she determines is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues, is not unduly costly or burdensome, and will not unduly delay the proceeding. Discovery of privileged information shall not be permitted. The request for approval sent to the Attorney General from the General Counsel or designee, as described in 31 U.S.C. § 3803(a)(2), is not discoverable under any circumstances. The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 26.44.
(c)
Authorized discovery.
The following types of discovery are authorized:
(1)
Requests for production of documents.
(i) Any party may serve upon any other party a written request to produce and permit the party making the request, or someone acting on the requestor's behalf, to inspect, copy, test, or sample any designated documents or electronically stored information—including writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, sound recordings, images, and other data or data compilations stored in any medium from which information can be obtained—translated, if necessary, by the respondent into reasonably usable form, or to inspect, copy, test, or sample any designated tangible things that constitute or contain matters within the scope of § 26.42(a) and which are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served.
(ii) The request shall set forth, either by individual item or by category, the items to be inspected, and describe each with reasonable particularity. The request shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner of making the inspection and performing the related acts. The request may specify the form or forms in which electronically stored information is to be produced.
(iii) The party upon whom the request is served shall serve a written response within 20 days after the service of the request. A shorter or longer time may be directed by the ALJ or, in the absence of such an order, agreed to in a written document by the parties, which shall be submitted to the ALJ in a timely manner. The response shall state, with respect to each item or category, whether inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested. If there are any objections to any requests, including objections to the requested form or forms for producing electronically stored information, the response shall state the reasons for such objections. If objection is made to part of an item or category, the part shall be specified and inspection permitted of the remaining parts. If objection is made to the requested format for producing electronically stored information—or if no format was specified in the request—the responding party must state the format it intends to use. The party submitting the request may move for an order under paragraph (e) of this section with respect to any objection to or other failure to respond to the request or any part thereof, or any failure to permit inspection as requested.
(iv) Unless the parties otherwise agree, or the ALJ otherwise orders:
(A) A party who produces documents for inspection shall produce them as they are kept in the usual course of business or shall organize and label them to correspond with the categories in the request;
(B) If a request does not specify the form or forms for producing electronically stored information, a responding party must produce the information in a format in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a format that is reasonably usable; and
(C) A party need not produce the same electronically stored information in more than one form.
(2)
Requests for admissions.
Any party may serve upon any other party a written request for the admission of the genuineness of any documents described in the request or of the truth of any relevant matters of fact. Copies of documents shall be delivered with the request unless copies have already been furnished. Each requested admission shall be considered admitted, unless, within 30 days after service of the request, or within such other time as the parties may agree to or the ALJ determines, the party from whom the admission is sought serves upon the party making the request either:
(i) A statement, which:
(A) Denies specifically the relevant matters for which an admission is requested, or sets forth in detail the reasons why the party can neither truthfully admit nor deny them;
(B) Fairly meets the substance of the requested admission, and when good faith requires that a party qualify an answer or deny only a part of the matter of which an admission is requested, the party specifies as much of it as is true and qualifies or denies the remainder; and
(C) Does not assert lack of information or knowledge as a reason for failure to admit or deny, unless the party states that the party has made reasonable inquiry, and that the information known or readily obtainable by the party is insufficient to enable the party to admit or deny; or
(ii) Written objections to a requested admission, which state the grounds for the objection and which object to a requested admission, if necessary, either in whole or in part, on the basis of privilege or relevance. Responses to the request for admission on matters to which objections have been made may be deferred until each objection is ruled upon, but if written objections are made only to a part of a request, a response to the remainder of the request shall be provided.
(iii) Any matter admitted under this rule is conclusively established unless the ALJ, on motion, permits withdrawal or amendment of the admission. Admissions obtained pursuant to this procedure may be used in evidence only for the purposes of the pending action. The use of obtained admissions as evidence is permitted to the same extent and subject to the same objections as other evidence.
(3)
Written interrogatories
—(i)
Service of written interrogatories.
Any party may serve upon any other party written interrogatories, not exceeding 25 in
number, including all discrete subparts, unless additional interrogatories are agreed to by the parties or leave to serve additional interrogatories is granted by the ALJ.
(ii)
Response to interrogatories.
Within 20 days after service of the request, the party upon whom the interrogatories are served shall serve a written response, unless the parties agree in a written document submitted to the ALJ or the ALJ determines that a shorter or longer period is appropriate under the circumstances. The response shall specifically answer each interrogatory separately and fully in writing, unless it is objected to, in which event the objecting party shall state the reasons for objection with specificity. Any ground not stated in a timely objection is waived unless the party's failure to object is excused by the ALJ for good cause shown. If objection is made to only part of an interrogatory, the objectionable part shall be specified and the party shall answer to the extent the interrogatory is not objectionable.
(iii)
Option to produce business records.
Where the answer to an interrogatory may be derived or ascertained from the business records, including electronically stored information, of the party upon whom the interrogatory has been served or from an examination, audit, or inspection of such business records, including a compilation, abstract, or summary thereof, and the burden of deriving or ascertaining the answer is substantially the same for the party serving the interrogatory as for the party served, it is a sufficient answer to such interrogatory to specify the records from which the answer may be derived or ascertained and to afford to the party serving the interrogatory reasonable opportunity to examine, audit, or inspect such records and to make copies, compilations, abstracts, or summaries. A specification shall be in sufficient detail to permit the interrogating party to locate and to identify, as readily as can the party served, the records from which the answer may be ascertained.
(4)
Depositions.
(i) A party may take the oral deposition of any person. Reasonable written notice of deposition shall be served upon the opposing party and the deponent. The attendance of a deponent may be compelled by subpoena where authorized by law or other order by the ALJ.
(ii) Each person testifying on oral deposition shall be placed under oath by the person before whom the deposition is taken. The deponent may be examined and cross-examined. The questions and the answers, together with all objections made, shall be recorded by the person before whom the deposition is to be taken or under that person's direction.
(iii)
Objections.
Objection may be made to questions or answers for any reason that would require the exclusion of the testimony under § 26.47 as if the witness were present and testifying at hearing. Objections shall be in short form, stating every ground for objection. Failure to object to any question or answer shall be considered a waiver of objection, unless the parties agree otherwise. Rulings on any objections shall be made by the ALJ at hearing, or at such other time as is requested by motion. The examination shall proceed, with the testimony being taken subject to the objections; a person may instruct a deponent not to answer only when necessary to preserve a privilege, to enforce a limitation directed by the ALJ, or to present a motion under § 26.44.
(iv)
Submission to deponent.
A transcript of the deposition shall be submitted to the deponent for examination and signature, unless submission is waived by the deponent and the parties. Any changes in form or substance that the deponent desires to make shall be entered upon the transcript by the person before whom the deposition was taken, with a statement of reasons given by the deponent for making them. The transcript shall then be signed by the deponent, unless the parties by stipulation waive the signing or the deponent is ill, cannot be found, or refuses to sign. If the transcript is not signed, the person before whom the deposition was taken shall sign it and state on the record the reason that it is not signed by the deponent.
(v)
Certification and filing.
The person before whom the deposition was taken shall make a certification on the transcript as to its accuracy. Interested
parties shall make their own arrangements with the person recording the testimony for copies of the testimony and the exhibits.
(vi)
Deposition as evidence.
Subject to appropriate rulings by the ALJ on objections, the deposition or any part may be introduced into evidence for any purpose if the deponent is unavailable. Only that part of a deposition that is received in evidence at hearing shall constitute a part of the record in the proceeding upon which a decision may be based. Nothing in this rule is intended to limit the use of a deposition for impeachment purposes.
(vii)
Payment of fees.
Fees shall be paid by the person upon whose application the deposition is taken.
(d)
Supplementation of responses.
A party who has responded to a request for discovery by providing a response is under a duty to timely amend any prior response to an interrogatory, request for production, or request for admission if so ordered by the ALJ, or if the party learns that the response is in some material respect incomplete or incorrect and if the additional or corrective information has not otherwise been made known to all other parties during the discovery process or in writing.
(e)
Motions to compel.
(1) In connection with any discovery procedure, by motion addressed to the ALJ and upon a showing of a good faith attempt to resolve the issue without the ALJ's intervention, either party may file a motion to compel a response with respect to any objection or other failure to respond to the discovery requested or to any part thereof, or any failure to respond as specifically requested. An evasive or incomplete answer to a request for discovery is treated as a failure to answer.
(2) The motion shall describe the information sought, cite the opposing party's objection, and provide arguments supporting the motion.
(3) The opposing party may file a response to the motion, including a request for a protective order in accordance with § 26.44.
(4) Orders compelling discovery shall be issued only where such discovery will not compel the disclosure of privileged information, unduly delay the hearing, or result in prejudice to the public interest or the rights of the parties, and upon a showing of good cause.
(5) A party need not provide discovery of electronically stored information from sources that the party identifies as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. On motion to compel discovery, the party from whom discovery is sought must show that the information is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. If that showing is made, the ALJ may nonetheless order discovery from such sources if the requesting party shows good cause or, when the party's refusal to provide the information sought is solely due to undue expense, the party seeking the discovery agrees to bear the expense associated with the request.
(f)
Refusal to honor discovery order.
When a party refuses to honor a discovery order, the ALJ may issue such orders in regard to the refusal as justice shall require, including the imposition of sanctions pursuant to § 26.34.
§ 26.43
Subpoenas.
(a)
General.
Upon written request of a party, the ALJ may issue a subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a deposition or hearing, and/or the production of documents. The request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall list the names and addresses of the witnesses.
(b)
Time of request.
A request for a subpoena in aid of discovery shall be filed in time to permit the conclusion of discovery 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing. A request for a subpoena to testify at the hearing shall be filed at least 3 days prior to the hearing, unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown.
(c)
Content.
The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(d)
Service and fees.
Subpoenas shall be served, and fees and costs paid to subpoenaed witnesses, in accordance with Rule 45(b)(1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(e)
Motion to quash.
The individual to whom the subpoena is directed or a party may file a motion to quash the subpoena within 10 days after service,
or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than 10 days after service.
§ 26.44
Protective orders.
(a) A party, a prospective witness, or a deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) Protective orders may be issued by an ALJ if the ALJ determines such an order is necessary to protect a party or other person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense because:
(1) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive;
(2) The party seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the action to obtain the information sought; or
(3) The burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs its likely benefit, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, the parties' resources, the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation, and the importance of the proposed discovery in resolving the issues.

# Hearings
§ 26.45
General.
(a)
Time of hearing.
The hearing shall commence not later than 90 days following the date of the Government's filing of the complaint and response with the Docket Clerk under § 26.38, unless the time is extended for good cause. The ALJ shall provide written notice to all parties of the reasons for any extension of time.
(b)
Location of hearing.
The hearing shall be held in a place most convenient for the respondent and witnesses, or in such other place as may be agreed upon by the parties and the ALJ.
(c)
Notice of hearing.
The ALJ shall issue a notice of hearing to all parties specifying the time and location of the hearing, the matters of fact and law to be heard, the legal authority under which the hearing is to be held, a description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing, and such other matters as the ALJ determines to be appropriate.
(d)
Exceptions for Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act matters.
For Program Fraud Civil Remedies actions, the hearing is commenced by the issuance of a notice of hearing and order by the ALJ, as set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3803(d)(2)(B). Hearings for Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act matters shall be located in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(g)(4).
(e)
Burden and standard of proof.
HUD shall prove the respondent's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence. Respondent shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(f)
Public hearings.
Unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause shown, the hearing shall be open to the public.
§ 26.46
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. In order to be admissible, any written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of the witness, in a manner that allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena the witness for cross-examination at the hearing.
§ 26.47
Evidence.
The ALJ shall admit any relevant oral or documentary evidence that is not privileged. Unless otherwise provided for in this part, the Federal Rules of Evidence shall provide guidance to the ALJ's evidentiary ruling, but shall not be binding. Parties may object to clearly irrelevant material, but technical and hearsay objections to testimony as used in a court of law will not be sustained. The ALJ may, however, exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or
needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
§ 26.48
Posthearing briefs.
Posthearing briefs shall be filed only upon order by the ALJ.
§ 26.49
The record.
The hearing will be recorded and transcribed by a reporter designated by the Department under the supervision of the ALJ. The parties and the public, at their own expense, may obtain copies of transcripts from the reporter. A copy of the transcript shall be made available at cost to the parties upon request. The transcript of testimony, exhibits, and other evidence admitted at the hearing and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the ALJ and the Secretary or designee.
§ 26.50
Initial decision.
(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision based only on the record, which shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the relief granted. The ALJ's initial decision shall not become effective unless it becomes or is incorporated into final agency action in accordance with § 26.50(c) or § 26.52(l).
(b) The ALJ shall serve the initial decision on all parties within 60 days after either the close of the record or the expiration of time permitted for submission of posthearing briefs, whichever is later. The ALJ may extend the 60-day period for serving the initial decision in writing for good cause. The initial decision shall inform the parties that, if provided for and consistent with Departmental regulations, any party may request, in writing, Secretarial review of the determination within 30 days after the ALJ issues the initial decision, in accordance with § 26.52 of this part. The determination shall include the mailing address, facsimile number, and electronic submission information to which the request for Secretarial review should be sent. A request for Secretarial review may be made by mail, delivery, facsimile, or electronic submission.
(c) If no appeal is timely filed with the Secretary or designee, the initial decision shall become the final agency action.
§ 26.51
Interlocutory rulings.
(a)
Interlocutory rulings by the ALJ.
A party seeking review of an interlocutory ruling shall file a motion with the ALJ within 10 days of the ruling requesting certification of the ruling for review by the Secretary. Certification may be granted if the ALJ believes that:
(1) It involves an important issue of law or policy as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion; and
(2) An immediate appeal from the order may materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation.
(b)
Petition for review.
Any party may file a petition for review of an interlocutory ruling within 10 days of the ALJ's determination regarding certification.
(c)
Secretarial review.
The Secretary, or designee, shall review a certified ruling. The Secretary, or designee, has the discretion to grant or deny a petition for review from an uncertified ruling.
(d)
Continuation of hearing.
Unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ or the Secretary, or designee, the hearing shall proceed pending the determination of any interlocutory appeal, and the order or ruling of the ALJ shall be effective pending review.
§ 26.52
Appeal to the Secretary.
(a)
General.
Either party may file with the Secretary an appeal within 30 days after the date that the ALJ issues an initial decision. The Secretary or the Secretary's designee may extend the 30-day period in his or her sole discretion, for good cause.
(b)
Brief in support of appeal.
The appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief, not to exceed 15 pages, specifically identifying the party's objections to the initial decision or order of the ALJ and the party's supporting reasons for any objections. The appealing party may request leave to file a brief in excess of 15 pages for good cause shown. Alternative proposed findings and conclusions, if any, may be appended as an exhibit.
(c)
Briefs in opposition.
Any opposing party may submit a brief in opposition to the appeal, not to exceed 15 pages, within 20 days of the date a copy of the
appeal and accompanying brief were received. The opposing party may request leave to file a brief in excess of 15 pages for good cause shown. The brief in opposition shall specifically state the opposing party's reasons for supporting the ALJ's determination or taking exceptions to any part of the ALJ's determination.
(d)
Extensions and additional briefs.
The Secretary or Secretary's designee may extend the deadlines or page limitations set forth in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, in his or her sole discretion. The Secretary may also permit the filing of additional briefs, in his or her sole discretion.
(e)
Forwarding of the record.
Upon request by the Office of the Secretary, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Secretary or designee.
(f)
Personal appearance.
There is no right to appear personally before the Secretary or designee.
(g)
ALJ decisions upon failure to prosecute or defend.
There is no right to appeal any decision issued by an ALJ in accordance with § 26.37(d) of this part.
(h)
Objections not raised before ALJ.
In reviewing the initial decision, the Secretary or designee shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the ALJ, unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
(i)
Evidence considered.
The Secretary or designee shall consider only evidence contained in the record forwarded by the ALJ. However, if any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary or designee that additional evidence not presented at the hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at the hearing, the Secretary or designee shall remand the matter to the ALJ for reconsideration in light of the additional evidence.
(j)
Ex parte communications.
The prohibitions of ex parte communications in § 26.33 shall apply to contacts with the Secretary or designee.
(k)
Relief.
The Secretary or designee may affirm, modify, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any relief granted in the initial decision. The Secretary or designee shall consider, and include in any final determination, such factors as may be set forth in applicable statutes or regulations.
(l)
Decision
—(1)
Generally.
Where a Secretarial appeal has been timely made, the Secretary, or designee, shall issue a written determination within 30 days after receipt of the brief in opposition, if any, and shall serve it upon the parties to the hearing. The Secretary, or designee, may extend the time in which a written determination must be issued by an additional 60 days for good cause shown in a written justification issued to the parties. The written decision of the Secretary shall be the final agency action. If the Secretary, or designee, does not act upon the appeal of an initial decision within 90 days of service of the appeal, then the initial determination shall be the final agency action.
(2)
Exception for cases brought under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act.
Where a Secretarial appeal has been timely made in a case brought under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, the Secretary, or designee, shall issue a written determination within 30 days after receipt of appeal and shall serve it upon the parties to the hearing. The written decision of the Secretary shall be the final agency action. If the Secretary, or designee, does not act upon the appeal of an initial decision within 30 days of service of the appeal, the initial decision shall become final and the Respondent will be served with a statement describing the right to seek judicial review, if any.
§ 26.53
Exhaustion of administrative remedies.
In order to fulfill the requirement of exhausting administrative remedies, a party must seek Secretarial review under § 26.52 prior to seeking judicial review of any initial decision issued under subpart B of this part.
§ 26.54
Judicial review.
Judicial review shall be available in accordance with applicable statutory procedures and the procedures of the appropriate federal court.
§ 26.55
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
Collection of civil penalties and assessments shall be in accordance with applicable statutory provisions.
§ 26.56
Right to administrative offset.
The amount of any penalty or assessment that has become final under § 26.50 or § 26.52, or for which a judgment has been entered after action under § 26.54 or § 26.55, or agreed upon in a compromise or settlement among the parties, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 or other applicable law. In Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act matters, an administrative offset may not be collected against a refund of an overpayment of federal taxes then or later owing by the United States to the Respondent.
Pt. 27

# PART 27—NONJUDICIAL FORECLOSURE OF MULTIFAMILY AND SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES

# Subpart A—Nonjudicial Foreclosure of Multifamily Mortgages
Sec.
27.1
Purpose.
27.2
Scope and applicability.
27.3
Definitions.
27.5
Prerequisites to foreclosure.
27.10
Designation of a foreclosure commissioner.
27.15
Notice of default and foreclosure sale.
27.20
Conditions of foreclosure sale.
27.25
Termination or adjournment of foreclosure sale.
27.30
Conduct of the sale.
27.35
Foreclosure costs.
27.40
Disposition of sale proceeds.
27.45
Transfer of title and possession.
27.50
Management and disposition by the Secretary.

# Subpart B—Nonjudicial Foreclosure of Single Family Mortgages
27.100
Purpose, scope and applicability.
27.101
Definitions.
27.102
Designation of foreclosure commissioner and substitute commissioner.
27.103
Notice of default and foreclosure sale.
27.105
Service of Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale.
27.107
Presale reinstatement.
27.109
Conduct of sale.
27.111
Adjournment or cancellation of sale.
27.113
Foreclosure costs.
27.115
Disposition of sales proceeds.
27.117
Transfer of title and possession.
27.119
Redemption rights.
27.121
Record of foreclosure and sale.
27.123
Deficiency judgment.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715b, 3701-3717, 3751-3768; 42 U.S.C. 1452b, 3535(d).

# Source:
61 FR 48548, Sept. 13, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Nonjudicial Foreclosure of Multifamily Mortgages
§ 27.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement requirements for the administration of the Multifamily Mortgage Foreclosure Act of 1981 (the Act) (12 U.S.C. 3701-3717), that clarify, or are in addition to, the requirements contained in the Act, which are not republished here and must be consulted in conjunction with the requirements of this subpart. The Act creates a uniform Federal remedy for foreclosure of multifamily mortgages. Under a delegation of authority published on February 5, 1982 (47 FR 5468), the Secretary has delegated to the HUD General Counsel his powers under the Act to appoint a foreclosure commissioner or commissioners and to substitute therefor, to fix the compensation of commissioners, and to promulgate implementing regulations.
§ 27.2
Scope and applicability.
(a) Under the Act and this subpart, the Secretary may foreclose on any defaulted Secretary-held multifamily mortgage encumbering real estate in any State. The Secretary may use the provisions of these regulations to foreclose on any multifamily mortgage regardless of when the mortgage was executed.
(b) The Secretary may, at the Secretary's option, use other procedures to foreclose defaulted multifamily mortgages, including judicial foreclosure in Federal court and nonjudicial foreclosure under State law. This subpart applies only to foreclosure procedures authorized by the Act and not to any other foreclosure procedures the Secretary may use.
§ 27.3
Definitions.
The definitions contained in the Act (at 12 U.S.C. 3702) shall apply to this subpart, in addition to and as further clarified by the following definitions. As used in this subpart:
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
Multifamily mortgage
does not include a mortgage covering a property on which there is located a one- to four-family residence, except when the one- to four-family residence is subject to a mortgage pursuant to section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q), or section 811 (42 U.S.C. 8013) of the National Affordable Housing Act. The definition of multifamily mortgage also includes a mortgage taken by the Secretary in connection with the previous sale of the project by the Secretary (purchase money mortgage).
§ 27.5
Prerequisites to foreclosure.
Before commencement of a foreclosure under the Act and this subpart, HUD will provide to the mortgagor an opportunity informally to present reasons why the mortgage should not be foreclosed. Such opportunity may be provided before or after the designation of the foreclosure commissioner but before service of the notice of default and foreclosure.
§ 27.10
Designation of a foreclosure commissioner.
(a) When the Secretary determines that a multifamily mortgage should be foreclosed under the Act and this subpart, the General Counsel will select and designate one or more foreclosure commissioners to conduct the foreclosure and sale. The method of selection and determination of the qualifications of the foreclosure commissioner shall be at the discretion of the General Counsel, and the execution of a designation pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be conclusive evidence that the commissioner selected has been determined to be qualified by the General Counsel.
(b) After selection of a foreclosure commissioner, the General Counsel shall designate the commissioner in writing to conduct the foreclosure and sale of the particular multifamily mortgage. The written designation shall be duly acknowledged and shall state the name and business or residential address of the commissioner and any other information the General Counsel deems necessary. The designation shall be effective upon execution by the General Counsel or his designate. Upon receipt of the designation, the commissioner shall demonstrate acceptance by signing the designation and returning a signed copy to the General Counsel.
(c) The General Counsel may at any time, with or without cause, designate a substitute commissioner to replace a previously designated commissioner. Designation of a substitute commissioner shall be in writing and shall contain the same information and be made effective in the same manner as the designation of the original commissioner. Upon designation of a substitute commissioner, the substitute commissioner shall serve a copy of the written notice of designation upon the persons listed at sections 369(1) (A) through (C) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3708(1) (A) through (C)) either by mail, in accordance with section 369(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3708(1)), except that the time limitations in that section will not apply, or by any other manner which in the substitute commissioner's discretion is conducive to giving timely notice of substitution.
§ 27.15
Notice of default and foreclosure sale.
(a) Within 45 days after accepting his or her designation to act as commissioner, the commissioner shall commence the foreclosure by serving a Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale.
(b) The Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale shall contain the following information:
(1) The Notice shall state that all deposits and the balance of the purchase price shall be paid by certified or cashier's check. The Notice shall state that no deposit will be required of the Secretary when the Secretary bids at the foreclosure sale.
(2) Any terms and conditions to which the purchaser at the foreclosure sale must agree under § 27.20. The Notice need not describe at length each
and every pertinent term and condition, including any required use agreements and deed covenants, if it describes these terms and conditions in a general way and if it states that the precise terms will be available from the commissioner upon request.
(c) The Notice need not be mailed to mortgagors who have been released from all obligations under the mortgage.
(d) In deciding which newspaper or newspapers to select as general circulation newspapers for purposes of publication of the required notice, the commissioner need not select the newspaper with the largest circulation.
(e) In addition to Notice posting requirements included in the Act, the Notice shall also be posted in the project office and in such other appropriate conspicuous places as the commissioner deems appropriate for providing notice to all tenants. Posting shall not be required if the commissioner in his or her discretion finds that the act of posting is likely to lead to a breach of the peace or may result in the increased risk of vandalism or damage to the property. Any such finding will be made in writing. Entry on the premises by the commissioner for the purpose of posting shall be privileged as against all other persons.
(f) When service of the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale is made by mail, the commissioner shall at the same time and in the same manner serve a copy of the instrument by which the General Counsel, under § 27.10(b), has designated him or her to act as commissioner.
(g) At least 7 days before the foreclosure sale, the commissioner will record both the instrument designating him or her to act as commissioner and the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale in the same office or offices in which the mortgage was recorded.
§ 27.20
Conditions of foreclosure sale.
(a) The requirements of section 367(b)(2)(A) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3706(b)(2)(A)) apply if a majority of the residential units in a property subject to foreclosure sale pursuant to the Act and this subpart are occupied by residential tenants either on the date of the foreclosure sale or on the date on which the General Counsel designates the foreclosure commissioner.
(b) Terms which the Secretary may find appropriate to require pursuant to section 367(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3706(b)), and such other provisions of law as may be applicable, may include provisions relating to use and ownership of the project property, tenant admission standards and procedures, rent schedules and increases, and project operation and maintenance. In determining terms which may be appropriate to require, the Secretary shall consider:
(1) The history of the project, including the purposes of the program under which the mortgage insurance or assistance was provided, and any other program of HUD under which the project was developed or otherwise assisted and the probable causes of project failure resulting in its default;
(2) A financial analysis of the project, including an appraisal of the fair market value of the property for its highest and best use;
(3) A physical analysis of the project, including the condition of the structure and grounds, the need for rehabilitation or repairs, and the estimated costs of any such rehabilitation or repairs;
(4) The income levels of the occupants of the project;
(5) Characteristics, including rental levels, of comparable housing in the area, with particular reference to whether current conditions and discernible trends in the area fairly indicate a likelihood that, for the foreseeable future after foreclosure and sale, the project will continue to provide rental or cooperative housing and market rentals obtainable in the project will be affordable by low- or moderate-income persons;
(6) The availability of or need for rental housing for low- and moderate-income persons in the area, including actions being taken or projected to be taken to address such needs and the impact of such actions on the project;
(7) An assessment of the number of occupants who might be displaced as a result of the manner of disposition;
(8) The eligibility of the occupants of the property for rental assistance under any program administered by
HUD and the availability of funding for such assistance if necessary in order that the units occupied by such occupants will remain available to and affordable by such persons, or if necessary in order to assure the financial feasibility of the project after foreclosure and sale subject to the terms to be required by the Secretary; and
(9) Such other factors relating to the project as the Secretary shall consider appropriate.
(c) Terms which the Secretary may require to be agreed to by the purchaser pursuant to section 367(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3706(b)) shall generally not be more restrictive, or binding for a longer duration, than the terms by which the mortgagor was bound prior to the foreclosure. For example: If the mortgage being foreclosed was held by the Secretary under section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 1452b), any terms required by the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be in effect no longer than five years after the completion of the rehabilitation work funded by the section 312 loan. No terms shall be required pursuant to this section if the foreclosure sale occurs more than five years after the completion of such rehabilitation work (signified by the due date for commencement of amortization payments in the section 312 loan note).
(d) The limitation contained in paragraph (c) of this section applies only to such terms as the Secretary may require the purchaser to agree to, as a condition and term of the sale, under paragraph (a) of this section. Nothing contained in paragraph (c) of this section shall prevent the Secretary and the purchaser from entering into a subsidy agreement under any program administered by the Secretary containing terms binding upon either party which are longer in duration than would be permitted to be required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) Any terms required by the Secretary to be agreed to by the purchaser as a condition and term of sale under this section and section 367(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3706(b)) shall be embodied in a use agreement to be executed by the Secretary and the purchaser. Such terms also may be included, or referred to, in appropriate covenants contained in the deed to be delivered by the foreclosure commissioner under § 27.45. Terms required by the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be stated or described in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale under § 27.15.
(f) The defaulting mortgagor, or any principal, successor, affiliate, or assignee thereof, on the multifamily mortgage being foreclosed, shall not be eligible to bid on, or otherwise acquire, the property being foreclosed by the Department under this subpart or any other provision of law. A “principal” and an “affiliate” are defined as provided at 24 CFR 24.105.
[61 FR 48548, Sept. 13, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 35847, July 9, 2001]
§ 27.25
Termination or adjournment of foreclosure sale.
(a) Before withdrawing the security property from foreclosure under section 369A(a) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3709(a)), the commissioner shall notify the Secretary of the proposed withdrawal by telephone or telegram and shall provide the Secretary with a written statement of the reasons for the proposed withdrawal along with all documents submitted by the mortgagor in support of the proposed withdrawal. Upon receipt of this statement, the Secretary shall have 10 days within which to demonstrate orally or in writing why the security property should not be withdrawn from foreclosure. The Secretary shall provide the mortgagor with a copy of any statement prepared by the Secretary in opposition to the proposed withdrawal at the same time the statement is submitted to the commissioner. If the Secretary receives the commissioner's written statement less than 10 days before the scheduled foreclosure sale, the sale shall automatically be postponed for 14 days. Under these circumstances, notice of the rescheduled sale shall be served as described in section 369B(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3710(c)).
(b) The commissioner may not withdraw the security property from foreclosure under section 369A(a) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3709(a)) more than once unless the Secretary consents in writing to such withdrawal.
(c) The commissioner shall, in the case of a sale adjourned to a later date, mail a copy of the revised Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale to the Secretary at least seven days before the date to which the sale has been adjourned.
(d) If upon application by the mortgagor, the commissioner refuses to withdraw the property from foreclosure under section 369A(a) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3709(a)), the commissioner shall provide the mortgagor and the Secretary with a written statement of the reasons for the refusal.
§ 27.30
Conduct of the sale.
(a) The commissioner shall accept written one-price sealed bids from any party including the Secretary so long as those bids conform to the requirements described in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale. The commissioner shall announce the name of each such bidder and the amount of the bid. The commissioner shall accept oral bids from any party, including parties who submitted one-price sealed bids, if those oral bids conform to the requirements described in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale. The commissioner will announce the amount of the high bid and the name of the successful bidder before the close of the sale.
(b) Relatives of the commissioner who may not bid at the foreclosure sale include parents, siblings, spouses and children. Related business entities which may not bid include entities or concerns whose relationship with the commissioner at the time the commissioner is designated is such that, directly or indirectly, one concern or individual formulates, directs, or controls the other concern; or has the power to formulate, direct, or control the other concern; or has the responsibility and authority either to prevent in the first instance, or promptly to correct, the offensive conduct of the other concern. Business concerns are also affiliates of each other when a third party is similarly situated with respect to both concerns.
(c) If the commissioner employs an auctioneer to conduct the foreclosure sale, the auctioneer must be a licensed auctioneer, an officer of State or local government, or any other person who commonly conducts foreclosure sales in the area in which the security property is located.
§ 27.35
Foreclosure costs.
Pursuant to section 369C(5) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3711(5)), a commission to the foreclosure commissioner for the conduct of the foreclosure will be paid in an amount to be determined by the General Counsel. A commission may be allowed to the commissioner notwithstanding termination of the sale or appointment of a substitute commissioner before the sale takes place.
§ 27.40
Disposition of sale proceeds.
(a) The priority of the Secretary's lien shall be determined by the Federal first-in-time first-in-right rule. State laws affording priority to liens recorded after the mortgage are preempted.
(b) If there is more than one party holding a lien or assessment payable from sales proceeds, the claim of each party holding the same kind of lien or assessment will be given the relative priority to which it would be entitled under the law of the State in which the security property is located.
(c) The commissioner will keep such records as will permit the Secretary to verify the costs claimed under section 369C of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3711), and otherwise to audit the commissioner's disposition of the sale proceeds.
§ 27.45
Transfer of title and possession.
(a) If the Secretary is the successful bidder, the foreclosure commissioner shall issue a deed to the Secretary upon receipt of the amount needed to pay the costs listed in sections 369D (1) through (3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 3712(1) through (3)). If the Secretary is not the successful bidder, the foreclosure commissioner shall issue a deed to the purchaser upon receipt of the entire purchase price and execution by the Secretary and the purchaser of any use agreement referred to in § 27.20(e). Any covenants reflecting terms required by § 27.20 shall be contained in the commissioner's deed.
(b) Subject to any terms required to be agreed to by § 27.20, any commercial
tenant and any residential tenant remaining in possession after the expiration of his or her lease or after the passage of one year, whichever event occurs first, shall be deemed a tenant at sufferance and may be evicted in accordance with applicable State or local law.
§ 27.50
Management and disposition by the Secretary.
When the Secretary is the purchaser of the security property, the Secretary shall manage and dispose of it in accordance with section 203 of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1701z-11, and in accordance with 24 CFR part 290.

# Subpart B—Nonjudicial Foreclosure of Single Family Mortgages
§ 27.100
Purpose, scope and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement requirements for the administration of the Single Family Mortgage Foreclosure Act of 1994 (the Statute), 12 U.S.C. 3751-3768, that clarify, or are in addition to, the requirements contained in the Statute, which are not republished here and must be consulted in conjunction with the requirements of this subpart.
(b)
Scope.
The Secretary may foreclose on any defaulted single family mortgage described in the Statute regardless of when the mortgage was executed.
(c)
Applicability.
The Secretary may, at the Secretary's option, use other procedures to foreclose defaulted single family mortgages, including judicial foreclosure in State or Federal Court, and nonjudicial foreclosures under State law or any other Federal law. This subpart applies only to foreclosure procedures authorized by the Statute and not to any other foreclosure procedures the Secretary may use.
§ 27.101
Definitions.
The definitions contained in the Statute (at 12 U.S.C. 3752) shall apply to this subpart, in addition to and as further clarified by the following definitions. As used in this subpart:
County
means a political subdivision of a State or Territory of the United States, created to aid in the administration of State law for the purpose of local self government, and includes a parish or any other equivalent subdivision.
Mortgage
is as defined in the Statute except that the reference to property as “(real, personal or mixed)” means “any property (real or mixed real and personal).”
Mortgage agreement
is as defined in the Statute, and also means any other similar instrument or instruments creating the security interest in the real estate for the repayment of the note or debt instrument.
Mortgagor
is as defined in the Statute, except that the reference to “trustee” means “trustor.”
Record; Recorded
means to enter or entered in public land record systems established under State statutes for the purpose of imparting constructive notice to purchasers of real property for value and without knowledge, and includes “register” and “registered” in the instance of registered land, and “file” and its variants in the context of entering documents in public land records.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, acting by and through any authorized designee exclusive of the foreclosure commissioner.
Security Property
is as defined in the statute except that the reference to property as “(real, personal or mixed)” means “any property (real or mixed real and personal).”
§ 27.102
Designation of foreclosure commissioner and substitute commissioner.
(a) The Secretary may designate foreclosure commissioners, including substitute commissioners, as set forth in the Statute.
(b) The method of selection and determination of the qualifications of the foreclosure commissioner shall be at the discretion of the Secretary. The execution of a designation pursuant to this section shall be conclusive evidence that the commissioner selected
has been determined to be qualified by the Secretary. The designation is effective upon execution.
§ 27.103
Notice of default and foreclosure sale.
(a) The foreclosure commissioner shall commence the foreclosure under the procedures set forth in the Statute.
(b) The Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale (Notice) shall include, in addition to the provisions as required by the Statute:
(1) The foreclosure commissioner's telephone number;
(2) A description of the security property sufficient to identify the property to be sold;
(3) The date the mortgage was recorded;
(4) Identification of the failure to make payment, including the entire amount delinquent as of a date specified, a statement generally describing the other costs that must be paid if the mortgage is to be reinstated, the due date of the earliest principal installment payment remaining wholly unpaid as of the date on which the notice is issued upon which the foreclosure is based, or a description of any other default or defaults upon which foreclosure is based, and the acceleration of the secured indebtedness; and
(5) The bidding and payment requirements for the foreclosure sale, including the time and method of payment of the balance of the foreclosure purchase price, that all deposits and the balance of the purchase price shall be paid by certified or cashier's check, and that no deposit will be required of the Secretary when the Secretary bids at the foreclosure sale.
§ 27.105
Service of Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale.
(a) The Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale shall be served in accordance with the provisions of the Statute. When notice is sent by mail, multiple mailings are not required to be sent to any party with multiple capacities, e.g., an original mortgagor who is the security property owner and lives in one of the units. The date of the receipt for the postage paid for the mailing may serve as proof of the date of mailing of the notice.
(b) Notice need not be mailed to any mortgagors who have been released from all obligations under the mortgage.
§ 27.107
Presale reinstatement.
(a) The foreclosure commissioner shall withdraw the security property from foreclosure and cancel the foreclosure sale only in accordance with the provisions of the Statute and as more fully provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section in regard to presale reinstatements.
(b) To obtain a presale reinstatement in cases involving a monetary default, there must be tendered to the foreclosure commissioner before public auction is completed all amounts which would be due under the mortgage agreement if payments under the mortgage had not been accelerated and all costs of foreclosure incurred for which payment from the proceeds of foreclosure is provided in the Statute, and the foreclosure commissioner must find that there are no nonmonetary defaults; provided, however, that the Secretary may refuse to cancel a foreclosure sale pursuant to this subparagraph if the current mortgagor or owner of record has, on one or more previous occasions, caused a foreclosure of the mortgage, commenced pursuant to the Statute and this subpart or otherwise, to be canceled by curing a default.
(c) To obtain a presale reinstatement in cases involving a nonmonetary default:
(1) The foreclosure commissioner, upon application of the mortgagor before the date of foreclosure sale, must find that all nonmonetary defaults are cured and that there are no monetary defaults; and
(2) There must be tendered to the foreclosure commissioner before public auction is completed all amounts due under the mortgage agreement (excluding all amounts which would be due under the mortgage agreement if the mortgage payments had been accelerated), including all amounts of expenditures secured by the mortgage and all costs of foreclosure incurred for which payment would be made from the proceeds of foreclosure as provided in the Statute.
(d) Before withdrawing the security property from foreclosure, the foreclosure commissioner shall notify the Secretary of the proposed withdrawal by telephone or other telecommunication device and shall also provide the Secretary with a written statement of the reasons for the proposed withdrawal along with all documents submitted by the mortgagor in support of the proposed withdrawal. Upon receipt of this statement, the Secretary shall have ten (10) days in which to demonstrate why the security property should not be withdrawn from foreclosure, and if the Secretary makes this demonstration, the property shall not be withdrawn from foreclosure. The Secretary shall provide the mortgagor with a copy of any statement prepared by the Secretary in opposition to the proposed withdrawal at the same time the statement is submitted to the foreclosure commissioner. If the Secretary receives the foreclosure commissioner's written statement less than 10 days before the scheduled foreclosure sale, the sale shall automatically be adjourned for 14 days, during which time it may be cancelled. Notice of the re-scheduled sale, if any, shall be served as described in § 27.111.
§ 27.109
Conduct of sale.
(a) The foreclosure sale shall be conducted in a manner and at a time and place as identified in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale and in accordance with the provisions of the Statute.
(b) In addition to bids made in person at the sale, the foreclosure commissioner shall accept written one-price sealed bids from any party, including the Secretary, for entry by announcement at the sale so long as those bids conform to the requirements described in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale. The foreclosure commissioner shall announce the name of each such bidder and the amount of the bid. The commissioner shall accept oral bids from any party, including parties who submitted one-price sealed bids, if those oral bids conform to the requirements in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale. Before the close of the sale the commissioner shall announce the amount of the high bid and the name of the successful bidder. If the successful bidder fails to comply with the terms of the sale, the HUD Field Office representative will provide instructions to the commissioner about offering the property to the second highest bidder, or having a new sale, or other instruction at the discretion of the HUD representative.
(c)
Prohibited participants.
Relatives of the foreclosure commissioner who may not bid include parents, siblings, spouses and children. A related business entity that may not bid or whose employees may not bid is one whose relationship (at the time the foreclosure commissioner is designated and during the term of service as foreclosure commissioner) with the entity of the foreclosure commissioner is such that, directly or indirectly, one entity formulates, directs, or controls the other entity; or has the power to formulate, direct, or control the other entity; or has the responsibility and authority to prevent, or promptly to correct, the offensive conduct of the other entity.
(d)
Auctioneers.
If the commissioner employs an auctioneer to conduct the foreclosure sale, the auctioneer must be a licensed auctioneer, an officer of State or local government, or any other person who commonly conducts foreclosure sales in the area in which the security property is located.
§ 27.111
Adjournment or cancellation of sale.
(a) The foreclosure commissioner may, before or at the time of the foreclosure sale, adjourn or cancel the foreclosure sale in accordance with the provisions of the Statute. The publication of the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale, revised pursuant to the Statute, may be made on any of three separate days before the revised date of foreclosure sale. If there is no newspaper of general circulation that would permit publication on any of three separate days before the revised date of foreclosure sale, the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale must be posted, not less than nine days before the date to which the sale has been adjourned, at the courthouse of any county or counties in which the property is located, and at the place where the sale is to be held. The commissioner must
also, in the case of a sale adjourned to a later date, mail a copy of the revised Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale to the Secretary at least seven days before the date to which the sale has been adjourned.
(b) When a substitute commissioner is designated by the Secretary to replace a previously designated foreclosure commissioner, the sale shall continue without prejudice unless the substitute commissioner finds, in that commissioner's sole discretion, that continuation of the foreclosure sale will unfairly affect the interests of the mortgagor. Any such finding shall be in writing. If the substitute commissioner makes such a finding, the substitute commissioner shall cancel or adjourn the sale.
§ 27.113
Foreclosure costs.
A commission may be allowed to the foreclosure commissioner notwithstanding termination of the sale or appointment of a substitute commissioner before the sale takes place.
§ 27.115
Disposition of sales proceeds.
The foreclosure commissioner will keep such records as will permit the Secretary to verify the costs claimed, and otherwise to enable the Secretary to audit the foreclosure commissioner's disposition of the sale proceeds.
§ 27.117
Transfer of title and possession.
(a) If the Secretary is the successful bidder, the foreclosure commissioner shall issue a deed to the Secretary upon receipt of the amount needed to pay the costs of tax liens and prior liens, as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 3762(a)(2) and (a)(3). If the Secretary is not the successful bidder, the foreclosure commissioner shall issue a deed to the purchaser or purchasers upon receipt of the entire purchase price in accordance with the terms of the sale as provided in the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale.
(b) The register of deeds or other appropriate official in the county where the property is located shall, upon tendering of the customary recording fees, accept all instruments pertaining to the foreclosure which are submitted by the foreclosure commissioner for recordation. The instruments to be accepted shall include, but not be limited to, the foreclosure commissioner's deed. If the foreclosure commissioner elects to include the recitations required under the Statute (12 U.S.C. 3764) in an affidavit or an addendum to the deed, the affidavit or addendum shall be accepted along with the deed for recordation. The Clerk of the Court or other appropriate official shall cancel all liens as requested by the foreclosure commissioner.
§ 27.119
Redemption rights.
Only for purposes of redemption rights under the Statute, a foreclosure shall be considered completed upon the date and at the time of the foreclosure sale.
§ 27.121
Record of foreclosure and sale.
The statements regarding the foreclosed mortgage required to establish a sufficient record shall include the date the mortgage was recorded. The statements regarding the service of the Notice of Default and Foreclosure Sale shall include the names and addresses of the persons to whom the Notice was mailed and the date on which the Notice was mailed, the name of the newspaper in which the Notice was published and the dates of publication, and the date on which service by posting, if required, was accomplished.
§ 27.123
Deficiency judgment.
If the price at which the security property is sold at the foreclosure sale is less than the unpaid balance of the debt secured by such property after disposition of sale proceeds in accordance with the order of priority provided under the Statute, the Secretary may refer the matter to the Attorney General who may commence an action or actions against any and all debtors to recover the deficiency, unless such an action is specifically prohibited by the mortgage.
Pt. 28

# PART 28—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT OF 1986
Sec.
28.1
Purpose.
28.5
Definitions.
28.10
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
28.15
Investigation.
28.20
Request for approval by the Department of Justice.
28.25
Complaint.
28.30
Response.
28.35
Statute of limitations.
28.40
Hearings.
28.45
Settlements.

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
61 FR 50213, Sept. 24, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 28.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Establishes administrative procedures for imposing civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit, or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to Federal authorities or to their agents; and
(b) Specifies the hearing and appeal rights of persons subject to allegations of liability for such penalties and assessments. Hearings under this part shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act pursuant to part 26, subpart B, of this chapter.
[61 FR 50213, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 76831, Dec. 17, 2008]
§ 28.5
Definitions.
(a) The terms
ALJ
and
HUD
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
(b) The terms
Claim, Knows or has reason to know, Person, Reviewing Official,
and
Statement
have the same meanings as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3801.
(c)
Ability to pay
is determined based on an assessment of the respondent's resources available both presently and prospectively from which the Department could ultimately recover the total award, which may be predicted based on historical evidence.
(d)
Benefit
means anything of value, including, but not limited to, any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan insurance or guarantee.
(e)
Respondent
means any person alleged to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 28.25.
(f) The
reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments
is determined based on a generalized assessment made by a Reviewing Official based on the limited information available in the Report of Investigation for purposes of determining whether the allocation of HUD's resources to any particular action is appropriate. This assessment is not the same as the assessment made when determining ability to pay, nor is the reasonable prospect of collecting a factor to be considered in determining the amount of any penalty or assessment in any particular case.
(g)
Report of Investigation
means a report containing the findings and conclusions of a Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act investigation by the Inspector General or his or her designee, as described in § 28.15.
[73 FR 76831, Dec. 17, 2008]
§ 28.10
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
(a)
Claims.
(1) A civil penalty of not more than $13,946 may be imposed upon any person who makes, presents, or submits, or causes to be made, presented, or submitted, a claim that the person knows or has reason to know:
(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(ii) Includes or is supported by a written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that:
(A) Omits a material fact;
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of the omission; and
(C) Is a statement in which the person making, presenting, or submitting such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or
(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed.
(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
(3) A claim shall be considered made to HUD, to a recipient, or to a party when the claim actually is made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision of a State, acting for or on behalf of HUD, the recipient, or the party.
(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty without regard to whether the property, services, or money actually is delivered or paid.
(5) Liability under this part shall not lie if the amount of money or value of property or services claimed exceeds $150,000 as to each claim that a person submits. For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, a group of claims submitted simultaneously as part of a single transaction shall be considered a single claim.
(6) If the Government has made any payment, transferred property, or provided services on a claim, then the Government may assess a person found liable up to twice the amount of the claim or portion of the claim that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Statements.
(1) A civil penalty of not more than $13,946 may be imposed upon any person who makes, presents, or submits, or causes to be made, presented, or submitted, a written statement that:
(i)(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(B)(
1
) Omits a material fact; and
(
2
) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission;
(ii) In the case of a statement described in (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section, is a statement in which the person making, presenting, or submitting such statement has a duty to include such material fact; and
(iii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement.
(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.
(3) A statement shall be considered made to HUD when the statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision of a State, acting for or on behalf of HUD.
(c)
Limit on liability.
If the claim or statement relates to low-income housing benefits or housing benefits for the elderly or handicapped, then a person may be held liable only if he or she has made or caused to be made the claim or statement in the course of applying for such benefits, with respect to his or her eligibility, or family's eligibility, to receive such benefits. For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, “
housing benefits
” means any instance wherein funds administered by the Secretary directly or indirectly permit low-income families or elderly or handicapped persons to reside in housing that otherwise would not be available to them.
(d)
Specific intent.
No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
(e)
Joint and several liability.
A civil penalty or assessment may be imposed jointly and severally if more than one person is determined to be liable.
[61 FR 50213, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 12787, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 73 FR 76831, Dec. 17, 2008; 78 FR 4059, Jan. 18, 2013; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13043, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14372, Mar. 16, 2021; 86 FR 31619, June 15, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 28.15
Investigation.
(a)
General.
HUD may initiate a Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. 3801) case against a respondent only upon an investigation by the Inspector General or his or her designee.
(b)
Subpoena.
Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3804(a), the Inspector General or designee may require by subpoena the production of records and other documents. The subpoena shall state the authority under which it is issued, identify the records sought, and name the person designated to receive the records. The recipient of the subpoena shall provide a certification that the documents sought have been produced, that the documents are not available and the reasons they are not available, or that the documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified privilege.
(c)
Investigation report.
If the Inspector General or designee concludes that an action under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act may be warranted, her or she shall submit a report containing the findings and conclusions of the investigation to the General Counsel or his or her designee.
(d) The Inspector General may refer allegations directly to the Department of Justice for suit under the False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3730) or for other civil relief, or may postpone submitting a report to the General Counsel to avoid interference with a criminal investigation or prosecution. The Inspector General shall report violations of criminal law to the Attorney General.
§ 28.20
Request for approval by the Department of Justice.
(a) If the General Counsel or designee determines that the Report of Investigation supports an action under this part, he or she must submit a written request to the Department of Justice for approval to issue a complaint under § 28.25.
(b) The request shall include a description of the claims or statements at issue; the evidence supporting the allegations; an estimate of the amount of money or the value of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in violation of § 28.10; any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements; and a statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments.
[73 FR 76831, Dec. 17, 2008]
§ 28.25
Complaint.
(a)
General.
Upon obtaining approval from the Department of Justice, the General Counsel or designee may issue a complaint to the respondent. The complaint shall be mailed, by registered or certified mail, or shall be delivered through such other means by which delivery may be confirmed. The complaint shall also be filed simultaneously with the Office of Hearings and Appeals in accordance with § 26.30(a) of this chapter.
(b)
Complaint.
The complaint shall include:
(1) The allegations of liability against the respondent, including the statutory basis for liability, the claims or statements at issue, and the reasons why liability arises from those claims or statements;
(2) A statement that the required approval to issue the complaint was received from the Department of Justice as required by 24 CFR 28.20;
(3) The amount of penalties and assessments for which the respondent may be held liable;
(4) A statement that the respondent may request a hearing by submitting a written response to the complaint;
(5) The addresses to which a response must be sent in accordance with § 26.38 of this title; and
(6) A statement that failure to submit an answer within 30 days of receipt of the complaint may result in the imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessments sought without right of appeal.
(c)
Parts 26 and 28.
A copy of this part 28 and part 26, subpart B of this chapter, shall be included with the complaint.
(d)
Obligation to preserve documents.
Upon receipt of the complaint, the respondent is required to preserve and maintain all documents and data, including electronically stored data, within their possession or control that may relate to the allegations in the complaint. The Department shall also preserve such documents or data upon the issuance of the complaint.
[73 FR 76832, Dec. 17, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 28.30
Response.
(a) The respondent may file a written response to the complaint, in accordance with § 26.30 of this title, within 30 days of service of the complaint. The response shall be deemed to be a request for a hearing. The response must include the admission or denial of each allegation of liability made in the complaint; any defense on which the respondent intends to rely; any reasons why the penalties and assessments should be less than the amount set forth in the complaint; and the name, address, and telephone number of the person who will act as the respondent's representative, if any.
(b)
Failure to respond.
If no response is submitted, HUD may file a motion for default judgment in accordance with § 26.41 of this chapter.
[73 FR 76832, Dec. 17, 2008]
§ 28.35
Statute of limitations.
The statute of limitations for commencing hearings under this part shall be tolled:
(a) If the hearing is commenced in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(d)(2)(B) within 6 years after the date on which the claim or statement is made; or
(b) If the parties agree to such tolling.
[73 FR 76832, Dec. 17, 2008]
§ 28.40
Hearings.
(a)
General.
Hearings under this part shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures in part 26, subpart B, of this chapter, governing actions in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act.
(b)
Factors to consider in determining amount of penalties and assessments.
In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the ALJ and, upon appeal, the Secretary or designee, shall consider and state in his or her opinion any mitigating or aggravating circumstances. Because of the intangible costs of fraud, the expense of investigating fraudulent conduct, and the need for deterrence, ordinarily twice the amount of the claim as alleged by the government, and a significant civil penalty, should be imposed. The amount of penalties and assessments imposed shall be based on the ALJ's and the Secretary's or designee's consideration of evidence in support of one or more of the following factors:
(1) The number of false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements;
(2) The time period over which such claims or statements were made;
(3) The degree of the respondent's culpability with respect to the misconduct;
(4) The amount of money or the value of the property, services, or benefit falsely claimed;
(5) The value of the Government's actual loss as a result of the misconduct, including foreseeable consequential damages and the cost of investigation;
(6) The relationship of the civil penalties to the amount of the Government's loss;
(7) The potential or actual impact of the misconduct upon national defense, public health or safety, or public confidence in the management of Government programs and operations, including particularly the impact on the intended beneficiaries of such programs;
(8) Whether the respondent has engaged in a pattern of the same or similar misconduct;
(9) Whether the respondent attempted to conceal the misconduct;
(10) The degree to which the respondent has involved others in the misconduct or in concealing it;
(11) If the misconduct of employees or agents is imputed to the respondent, the extent to which the respondent's practices fostered or attempted to preclude the misconduct;
(12) Whether the respondent cooperated in or obstructed an investigation of the misconduct;
(13) Whether the respondent assisted in identifying and prosecuting other wrongdoers;
(14) The complexity of the program or transaction, and the degree of the respondent's sophistication with respect to it, including the extent of the respondent's prior participation in the program or in similar transactions;
(15) Whether the respondent has been found, in any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, to have engaged in similar misconduct or to have dealt dishonestly with the Government of the United States or of a State, directly or indirectly;
(16) The need to deter the respondent and others from engaging in the same or similar misconduct; and
(17) The respondent's ability to pay, and
(18) Any other factors that in any given case may mitigate or aggravate the seriousness of the false claim or statement.
(c)
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
If at any time the Attorney General of the United States or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General notifies the Secretary in writing that continuation of HUD's case may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil
action related to the claim or statement at issue, the ALJ or the Secretary shall stay the process immediately. The case may be resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.
[61 FR 50213, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 76832, Dec. 17, 2008]
§ 28.45
Settlements.
(a) HUD and the respondent may enter into a settlement agreement at any time prior to the issuing of a notice of final determination under § 26.50 of this title.
(b) Failure of the respondent to comply with a settlement agreement shall be sufficient cause for resuming an action under this part, or for any other judicial or administrative action.
Pt. 30

# PART 30—CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES: CERTAIN PROHIBITED CONDUCT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
30.1
Purpose and scope.
30.5
Effective dates.
30.10
Definitions.
30.15
Application of other remedies.

# Subpart B—Violations
30.20
Ethical violations by HUD employees.
30.25
Violations by applicants for assistance.
30.30
Urban Homestead violations.
30.35
Mortgagees and lenders.
30.36
Dealers or sponsored third-party originators.
30.40
Loan guarantees for Indian housing.
30.45
Multifamily and section 202 or 811 mortgagors.
30.50
GNMA issuers and custodians.
30.55
Interstate Land Sales violations.
30.60
Dealers or sponsored third-party originators.
30.65
Failure to disclose lead-based paint hazards.
30.68
Section 8 owners.
30.69
SAFE Mortgage Licensing violations.

# Subpart C—Procedures
30.70
Prepenalty notice.
30.75
Response to prepenalty notice.
30.80
Factors in determining amount of civil money penalty.
30.85
Complaint.
30.90
Response to the complaint.
30.95
Hearings.
30.100
Settlement of a civil money penalty action.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701q-1, 1703, 1723i, 1735f-14, and 1735f-15; 15 U.S.C. 1717a; 28 U.S.C. 1 note and 2461 note; 42 U.S.C. 1437z-1 and 3535(d).

# Source:
61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 30 appear at 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022.

# Subpart A—General
§ 30.1
Purpose and scope.
Unless provided for elsewhere in this title or under separate authority, this part implements HUD's civil money penalty provisions. The procedural rules for hearings under this part are those applicable to hearings in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, as set forth in 24 CFR part 26.
[74 FR 2751, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 30.5
Effective dates.
(a) Under § 30.20, a civil money penalty may be imposed for violations occurring on or after May 22, 1991.
(b)
Maximum penalty.
The maximum penalty is $23,727 for each violation.
(c) Under § 30.40, concerning loan guarantees for Indian housing, a civil money penalty may be imposed for violations occurring on or after October 28, 1992.
(d) Under § 30.65, a civil money penalty may be imposed for violations occurring on or after the following dates:
(1) September 6, 1996, for owners of more than four residential dwellings; or
(2) December 6, 1996, for owners of one to four residential dwellings.
(e) Under § 30.68, a civil money penalty may be imposed for violations, or for those parts of continuing violations, occurring on or after January 7, 2002.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 63441, Dec. 6, 2001; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023]
§ 30.10
Definitions.
Since this part is primarily procedural, terms not defined in this section shall have the meanings given them in relevant program regulations. Comprehensive definitions are in 24 CFR part 4 (HUD Reform Act). The terms
ALJ, Department, HUD,
and
Secretary
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Ability to pay.
Determined based on an assessment of the respondent's resources available both presently and prospectively from which the Department could ultimately recover the total award, which may be predicted based on historical evidence.
Agent.
Any person, including an officer, director, partner, or trustee, who acts on behalf of another person.
Dealer.
A seller, contractor or supplier of goods or services having a direct or indirect financial interest in the transaction between the borrower and the lender, and who assists the borrower in preparing the credit application or otherwise assists the borrower in obtaining the loan from the lender.
Knowing
or
Knowingly.
Having actual knowledge of or acting with deliberate ignorance of or reckless disregard for the prohibitions under subpart B of this part or under 24 CFR part 4. For purposes of §§ 30.35 and 30.36,
knowing
or
knowingly
is defined at 12 U.S.C. 1735f-14(g).
Material or Materially.
Having the natural tendency or potential to influence, or when considering the totality of the circumstances, in some significant respect or to some significant degree.
Person.
An individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, local government or agency thereof, or any other organization or group of people.
Respondent.
A person against whom a civil money penalty action is initiated.
Sponsored third-party originato
r. A sponsored third-party originator as defined at § 202.8 of this title.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 2751, Jan. 15, 2009; 77 FR 51468, Aug. 24, 2012; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017]
§ 30.15
Application of other remedies.
A civil money penalty may be imposed in addition to other administrative sanctions or any other civil remedy or criminal penalty.

# Subpart B—Violations
§ 30.20
Ethical violations by HUD employees.
(a)
General.
The General Counsel, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty action against HUD employees who improperly disclose information pursuant to section 103 of the HUD Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3537a(c)) and 24 CFR part 4, subpart B.
(b)
Maximum penalty.
The maximum penalty is $24,496 for each violation.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.25
Violations by applicants for assistance.
(a)
General.
The General Counsel, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty action against applicants for assistance, as defined in 24 CFR part 4, subpart A, who knowingly and materially violate the provisions of subsections (b) or (c) of section 102 of the HUD Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
(b)
Maximum penalty.
The maximum penalty is $24,496 for each violation.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.35
Mortgagees and lenders.
(a)
General.
The Mortgagee Review Board may initiate a civil money penalty action against any mortgagee or lender who knowingly and materially:
(1) Violates the provisions listed in 12 U.S.C. 1735f-14(b);
(2) Fails to comply with the requirements of § 201.27(a) of this title regarding approval and supervision of dealers;
(3) Approves a dealer that has been suspended, debarred, or otherwise denied participation in HUD's programs;
(4) Makes a payment that is prohibited under § 202.5(l).
(5) Fails to remit, or timely remit, mortgage insurance premiums, loan insurance charges, or late charges or interest penalties;
(6) Permits loan documents for an FHA insured loan to be signed in blank by its agents or any other party to the loan transaction unless expressly approved by the Secretary;
(7) Fails to follow the mortgage assignment procedures set forth in § 203.664 of this title or in §§ 207.255 through 207.258b of this title.
(8) Fails to timely submit documents that are complete and accurate in connection with a conveyance of a property or a claim for insurance benefits, in accordance with §§ 203.365, 203.366, or 203.368, or a claim for insurance benefits in accordance with § 206.127 of this title;
(9) Fails to:
(i) Process requests for formal release of liability under an FHA insured mortgage;
(ii) Obtain a credit report, issued not more than 90 days prior to approval of a person as a borrower, as to the person's creditworthiness to assume an FHA insured mortgage;
(iii) Timely submit proper notification of a change in mortgagor or mortgagee as required by § 203.431 of this title;
(iv) Timely submit proper notification of mortgage insurance termination as required by § 203.318 of this title;
(v) Timely submit proper notification of a change in mortgage servicing as required by § 203.502 of this title; or
(vi) Report all delinquent mortgages to HUD, as required by § 203.330 of this title;
(10) Fails to service FHA insured mortgages, in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR parts 201, 203, 206, and 235;
(11) Fails to fund loans that it originated, or otherwise misuses loan proceeds;
(12) Fails to comply with the conditions relating to the assignment or pledge of mortgages;
(13) Fails to comply with the provisions of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (12 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
), or the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
);
(14) Fails to engage in loss mitigation as provided in § 203.605 of this title.
(b)
Continuing violation.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(c)(1)
Amount of penalty.
The maximum penalty is $12,249 for each violation, up to a limit of $2,449,575 for all violations committed during any one-year period. Each violation shall constitute a separate violation as to each mortgage or loan application.
(2)
Maximum penalty for failing to engage in loss mitigation.
The penalty for a violation of paragraph (a)(14) of this section shall be three times the amount of the total mortgage insurance benefits claimed by the mortgagee with respect to any mortgage for which the mortgagee failed to engage in such loss mitigation actions.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 9742, Feb. 26, 1998; 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 70 FR 21578, Apr. 26, 2005; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 74 FR 2751, Jan. 15, 2009; 74 FR 14725, Apr. 1, 2009; 78 FR 4059, Jan. 18, 2013; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 82 FR 7117, Jan. 19, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.36
Other participants in FHA programs.
(a)
General.
The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner (or his/her designee) may initiate a civil money penalty action against any principal, officer, or employee of a mortgagee or lender, or other participants in either a mortgage insured under the National Housing Act or any loan that is covered by a contract of insurance under title I of the National Housing Act, or a provider of assistance to the borrower in connection with any such mortgage or loan, including:
(1) Sellers;
(2) Borrowers;
(3) Closing agents;
(4) Title companies;
(5) Real estate agents;
(6) Mortgage brokers;
(7) Appraisers;
(8) Sponsored third-party originators;
(9) Dealers;
(10) Consultants;
(11) Contractors;
(12) Subcontractors; and
(13) Inspectors.
(b)
Knowing and material violations.
The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner or his/her designee may impose a civil penalty on any person or entity identified in paragraph (a) of this section who knowingly and materially:
(1) Submits false information to the Secretary in connection with any mortgage insured under the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), or any loan that is covered by a contract of insurance under title I of the National Housing Act;
(2) Falsely certifies to the Secretary or submits a false certification by another person or entity to the Secretary in connection with any mortgage insured under the National Housing Act or any loan that is covered by a contract of insurance under title I of the National Housing Act; or
(3) Is a loan dealer and fails to submit to the Secretary information which is required by regulations or directives in connection with any loan that is covered by a contract of insurance under title I of the National Housing Act.
(c)
Amount of penalty.
The maximum penalty is $12,249 for each violation, up to a limit of $2,449,575 for all violations committed during any one-year period. Each violation shall constitute a separate violation as to each mortgage or loan application.
[65 FR 9087, Feb. 23, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 77 FR 51468, Aug. 24, 2012; 78 FR 4059, Jan. 18, 2013; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.40
Loan guarantees for Indian housing.
(a)
General.
The Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing (or his/her designee) may initiate a civil money penalty action against any mortgagee or holder of a guarantee certificate who knowingly and materially violates the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a(g)(2) concerning loan guarantees for Indian housing.
(b)
Continuing violation.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(c)
Amount of penalty.
The maximum penalty is $12,249 for each violation, up to a limit of $2,449,575 for all violations committed during any one-year period. Each violation shall constitute a separate violation as to each mortgage or loan application.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 9087, Feb. 23, 2000; 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 78 FR 4059, Jan. 18, 2013; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.45
Multifamily and section 202 or 811 mortgagors.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section only:
(1)
Agent employed to manage the property that has an identity of interest
and
identity of interest agent.
An entity:
(i) That has management responsibility for a project;
(ii) In which the ownership entity, including its general partner or partners (if applicable) and its officers or directors (if applicable), has an ownership interest; and
(iii) Over which the ownership entity exerts effective control.
(2)
Effective control.
The ability to direct, alter, supervise, or otherwise influence the actions, policies, decisions, duties, employment, or personnel of the management agent.
(3)
Entity.
An individual corporation; company; association; partnership; authority; firm; society; trust; state, local government or agency thereof; or any other organization or group of people.
(4)
Multifamily property.
Property that includes 5 or more living units and that has a mortgage insured, co-insured, or held pursuant to the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1702
et seq.
).
(5)
Ownership interest.
Any direct or indirect interest in the stock, partnership interests, beneficial interests (for a trust) or other medium of equity participation. An indirect interest includes equity participation in any entity that holds a management interest
(e.g. general partner, managing member of an LLC, majority stockholder, trustee) or minimum equity interest (e.g., a 25% or more limited partner, 10% or more stockholder) in the ownership entity of the management agent.
(6)
Section 202 or 811 property.
Property that includes 5 or more living units and that has a mortgage held pursuant to a direct loan or capital advances under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) or capital advances under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013).
(b)
Violation of agreement
—(1)
General.
The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty action against a mortgagor of a section 202 or 811 property or a mortgagor, general partner of a partnership mortgagor, or any officer or director of a corporate mortgagor of a multifamily property who:
(i) Has agreed in writing, as a condition of a transfer of physical assets, a flexible subsidy loan, a capital improvement loan, a modification of the mortgage terms, or a workout agreement, to use nonproject income to make cash contributions for payments due under the note and mortgage, for payments to the reserve for replacements, to restore the project to good physical condition, or to pay other project liabilities; and
(ii) Knowingly and materially fails to comply with any of the commitments listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Maximum penalty.
The maximum penalty for each violation under paragraph (b) of this section is the amount of loss that the Secretary would experience at a foreclosure sale, or a sale after foreclosure, of the property involved.
(c)
Other violations.
The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty action against any of the following who knowingly and materially take any of the actions listed in 12 U.S.C. 1735f-15(c)(1)(B):
(1) Any mortgagor of a multifamily property;
(2) Any general partner of a partnership mortgagor of such property;
(3) Any officer or director of a corporate mortgagor;
(4) Any agent employed to manage the property that has an identity of interest with the mortgagor, with the general partner of a partnership mortgagor, or with any officer or director of a corporate mortgagor of such property; or
(5) Any member of a limited liability company that is the mortgagor of such property or is the general partner of a limited partnership mortgagor or is a partner of a general partnership mortgagor.
(d)
Acceptable management.
For purposes of this rule, management acceptable to the Secretary under 12 U.S.C. 1735f-15(c)(1)(B)(xiv) shall include:
(1) Fiscal management in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements;
(2) Handling of vacancies and tenanting in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements;
(3) Handling of rent collection in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements;
(4) Maintenance in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements;
(5) Compliance with HUD regulations and requirements on tenant organization; and
(6) Any other matters that pertain to proper management in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements.
(e)
Civil money penalty.
A consistent pattern of violations of HUD program requirements, or a single violation that causes serious injury to the public or tenants, can be a basis for an action to assess a civil money penalty.
(f)
Section 202 or 811 projects.
The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty action against any mortgagor of a section 202 or 811 property who knowingly and materially takes any of the actions listed in 12 U.S.C. 1701q-1(c)(1).
(g)
Maximum penalty.
The maximum penalty for each violation under paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section is $61,238.
(h)
Payment of penalty.
No payment of a civil money penalty levied under this
section shall be payable out of project income.
(i)
Exceptions.
The Secretary may not impose penalties under this section for a violation, if a material cause of the violation is the failure of the Secretary, an agent of the Secretary, or a public housing agency to comply with an existing agreement.
[66 FR 63441, Dec. 6, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 74 FR 2751, Jan. 15, 2009; 78 FR 4059, Jan. 18, 2013; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.50
GNMA issuers and custodians.
(a)
General.
The President of GNMA, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty action against a GNMA issuer or custodian that knowingly and materially violates any provision of 12 U.S.C. 1723i(b), title III of the National Housing Act, or any implementing regulation, handbook, guaranty agreement, or contractual agreement, or participant letter issued by GNMA, or fails to comply with the terms of a settlement agreement with GNMA.
(b)
Continuing violation.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(c)
Amount of penalty.
The maximum penalty is $12,249 for each violation, up to a limit of $2,449,575 during any one-year period. Each violation shall constitute a separate violation with respect to each pool of mortgages.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 78 FR 4059, Jan. 18, 2013; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.60
Dealers or sponsored third-party originators.
(a)
General.
The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty action against any dealer or sponsored third-party originator that violates section 2(b)(7) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1703). Such violations include, but are not limited to:
(1) Falsifying information on an application for dealer approval or reapproval submitted to a lender;
(2) Falsifying statements on a HUD credit application, improvement contract, note, security instrument, completion certificate, or other loan document;
(3) Failing to sign a credit application if the dealer or sponsored third-party originator assisted the borrower in completing the application;
(4) Falsely certifying to a lender that the loan proceeds have been or will be spent on eligible improvements;
(5) Falsely certifying to a lender that the property improvements have been completed;
(6) Falsely certifying that a borrower has not been given or promised any cash payment, rebate, cash bonus, or anything of more than nominal value as an inducement to enter into a loan transaction;
(7) Making a false representation to a lender with respect to the creditworthiness of a borrower or the eligibility of the improvements for which a loan is sought.
(b)
Continuing violation.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(c)
Amount of penalty.
The maximum penalty is $12,249 for each violation, up to a limit for any particular person of $2,449,575 during any one-year period.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 77 FR 51467, Aug. 24, 2012; 78 FR 4059, Jan. 18, 2013; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.65
Failure to disclose lead-based paint hazards.
(a)
General.
The Director of the Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty action against any person who knowingly violates 42 U.S.C. 4852d.
(b)
Amount of penalty.
The maximum penalty is $21,699 for each violation.
[65 FR 50593, Aug. 18, 2000, as amended at 76 FR 36851, June 22, 2011; 79 FR 35042, June 19, 2014; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24524, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9453, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24420, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 30.68
Section 8 owners.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section only:
Agent employed to manage the property that has an identity of interest
and
identity of interest agent.
An entity:
(1) That has management responsibility for a project;
(2) In which the ownership entity, including its general partner or partners (if applicable), has an ownership interest; and
(3) Over which the ownership entity exerts effective control.
Effective control.
The ability to direct, alter, supervise, or otherwise influence the actions, policies, decisions, duties, employment, or personnel of the management agent.
Entity.
An individual corporation; company; association; partnership; authority; firm; society; trust; state, local government or agency thereof; or any other organization or group of people.
Ownership interest.
Any direct or indirect interest in the stock, partnership interests, beneficial interests (for a trust) or other medium of equity participation. An indirect interest includes equity participation in any entity that holds a management interest (
e.g.
general partner, managing member of an LLC, majority stockholder, trustee) or minimum equity interest (
e.g.,
a 25% or more limited partner, 10% or more stockholder) in the ownership entity of the management agent.
(b)
General.
The Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, or his or her designee, or the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, or his or her designee, may initiate a civil money penalty against any owner, any general partner of a partnership owner, or any agent employed to manage the property that has an identity of interest with the owner or the general partner of a partnership owner of a property receiving project-based assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) for a knowing and material breach of a housing assistance payments contract. Examples of covered violations include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Failure to provide decent, safe, and sanitary housing pursuant to section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and 24 CFR 5.703; or
(2) Knowing or willful submission of false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or requests for housing assistance payments to the Secretary or to any department or agency of the United States.
(c)
Maximum penalty.
The maximum penalty for each violation under this section is $47,596.
(d)
Payment of penalty.
No payment of a civil money penalty levied under this section shall be payable out of project income.
(e)
Exceptions.
The Secretary may not impose penalties under this section for a violation, if a material cause of the violation is the failure of the Secretary, an agent of the Secretary, or a public housing agency to comply with an existing agreement.
[66 FR 63442, Dec. 6, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 2751, Jan. 15, 2009; 78 FR 4059, Jan. 18, 2013; 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24525, May 30, 2017; 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9454, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24421, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13616, Feb. 23, 2024]

# Subpart C—Procedures
§ 30.70
Prepenalty notice.
(a) Prior to determining whether to issue a complaint under § 30.85, the official designated in subpart B of this part, or his or her designee (or the chairperson of the Mortgagee Review Board, or his or her designee, in actions under § 30.35), shall issue a written notice to the respondent. This prepenalty notice shall include the following:
(1) That HUD is considering seeking a civil money penalty;
(2) The specific violations alleged;
(3) The maximum civil money penalty that may be imposed;
(4) The opportunity to reply in writing to the designated program official within 30 days after receipt of the notice;
(5) That failure to respond within the 30-day period may result in issuance of a complaint under § 30.85 without consideration of any information that the respondent may wish to provide; and
(6) That if a complaint is issued under § 30.85, the respondent may request a hearing before an administrative law judge in accordance with § 30.95.
(b)
Obligation to preserve documents.
Upon receipt of the prepenalty notice, the respondent is required to preserve and maintain all documents or data, including electronically stored data, within his or her possession or control that may relate to the violations alleged in the prepenalty notice. The Department shall also preserve such documents or data upon the issuance of the prepenalty notice.
[74 FR 2751, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 30.75
Response to prepenalty notice.
(a) The response shall be in a format prescribed in the prepenalty notice. The response shall address the factors set forth in § 30.80 and include any arguments opposing the imposition of a civil money penalty that the respondent may wish to present.
(b) In any case where respondent seeks to raise ability to pay as an affirmative defense or argument in mitigation, the respondent shall provide documentary evidence as part of its response.
[74 FR 2751, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 30.80
Factors in determining amount of civil money penalty.
After determining that a respondent has committed a violation as described in subpart B of this part that subjects the respondent to liability under this part, the officials designated in subpart B of this part shall consider the following factors to determine the amount of penalty to seek against a respondent, if any:
(a) The gravity of the offense;
(b) Any history of prior offenses;
(c) The ability to pay the penalty, which ability shall be presumed unless specifically raised as an affirmative defense or mitigating factor by the respondent;
(d) The injury to the public;
(e) Any benefits received by the violator;
(f) The extent of potential benefit to other persons;
(g) Deterrence of future violations;
(h) The degree of the violator's culpability; and
(i) Such other matters as justice may require.
(j) In addition to the above factors, with respect to violations under §§ 30.45, 30.55, 30.60, and 30.68, the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, or his or her designee, or the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, or his or her designee, shall also consider:
(1) Any injury to tenants; and/or
(2) Any injury to lot owners.
(k) HUD may consider the factors listed in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section to determine the appropriateness of imposing a penalty under § 30.35(c)(2); however, HUD cannot change the amount of the penalty under § 30.35(c)(2).
[74 FR 2751, Jan. 15, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 24525, May 30, 2017]
§ 30.85
Complaint.
(a)
General.
Upon the expiration of the period for the respondent to submit a response to the prepenalty notice, the official designated in subpart B of this part, or his or her designee (or the Mortgagee Review Board in actions under § 30.35) shall determine whether to seek a civil money penalty. Such determination shall be based upon a review of the prepenalty notice, the response, if any, and the factors listed at § 30.80. A determination by the Mortgagee Review Board to seek a civil money penalty shall be by a majority vote of the Board.
(b) If a determination is made to seek a civil money penalty, government counsel shall issue a complaint to the respondent on behalf of the officials listed at subpart B of this part or the Mortgagee Review Board for violations under § 30.35. The complaint shall be
served upon respondent and simultaneously filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals, and shall state the following:
(1) The factual basis for the decision to seek a penalty;
(2) The applicable civil money penalty statute;
(3) The amount of penalty sought;
(4) The right to submit a response in writing, within 15 days of receipt of the complaint, requesting a hearing on any material fact in the complaint, or on the appropriateness of the penalty sought;
(5) The address to which a response must be sent;
(6) That the failure to submit a response may result in the imposition of the penalty in the amount sought.
(c) A copy of this part and of 24 CFR part 26, subpart B, shall be included with the complaint.
(d)
Service of the complaint.
The complaint shall be served on the respondent by first class mail, personal delivery, or other means.
(e) Before taking an action under §§ 30.35 for violation of 12 U.S.C. § 1735f-14(b)(1)(D) or (F), 30.36, or 30.50 for violation of 12 U.S.C. 1723i(b)(1)(G) or (I), the Secretary shall inform the Attorney General of the United States, which may be accomplished by providing a copy of the complaint. The Secretary shall include in the body of the complaint a statement confirming that this action was taken.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 2752, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 30.90
Response to the complaint.
(a)
Request for a hearing.
If the respondent desires a hearing before an administrative law judge, the respondent shall submit a request for a hearing to HUD and the Office of Hearings and Appeals no later than 15 days following receipt of the complaint, as required by statute. This mandated period cannot be extended.
(b)
Answer.
In any case in which the respondent has requested a hearing, the respondent shall serve upon HUD and file with the Office of Hearings and Appeals a written answer to the complaint within 30 days of receipt of the complaint, unless such time is extended by the administrative law judge for good cause. The answer shall include the admission or denial of each allegation of liability made in the complaint; any defense on which the respondent intends to rely; any reasons why the civil money penalty should be less than the amount sought in the complaint, based on the factors listed at § 30.80; and the name, address, and telephone number of the person who will act as the respondent's representative, if any.
(c)
Filing with the administrative law judges.
HUD shall file the complaint and response with the Docket Clerk, Office of Hearings and Appeals, in accordance with § 26.38 of this chapter. If no response is submitted, then HUD may file a motion for default judgment, together with a copy of the complaint, in accordance with § 26.41 of this title.
[61 FR 50215, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 2752, Jan. 15, 2009; 74 FR 7313, Feb. 17, 2009; 74 FR 4635, Jan. 26, 2009; 78 FR 4060, Jan. 18, 2013]
§ 30.95
Hearings.
Hearings under this part shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures applicable to hearings in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, set forth in 24 CFR part 26.
[74 FR 2752, Jan. 15, 2009]
§ 30.100
Settlement of a civil money penalty action.
The officials listed at subpart B of this part, or their designees (or the Mortgagee Review Board, or designee, for violations under § 30.35), are authorized to enter into settlement agreements resolving civil money penalty actions that may be brought under part 30.
[74 FR 2752, Jan. 15, 2009]
Pt. 35

# PART 35—LEAD-BASED PAINT POISONING PREVENTION IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES

# Subpart A—Disclosure of Known Lead-Based Paint Hazards Upon Sale or Lease of Residential Property
Sec.
35.80
Purpose.
35.82
Scope and applicability.
35.84
Effective dates.
35.86
Definitions.
35.88
Disclosure requirements for sellers and lessors.
35.90
Opportunity to conduct an evaluation.
35.92
Certification and acknowledgment of disclosure.
35.94
Agent responsibilities.
35.96
Enforcement.
35.98
Impact on State and local requirements.

# Subpart B—General Lead-Based Paint Requirements and Definitions for All Programs
35.100
Purpose and applicability.
35.105
[Reserved]
35.106
Information collection requirements.
35.110
Definitions.
35.115
Exemptions.
35.120
Options.
35.125
Notice of evaluation and hazard reduction activities.
35.130
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
35.135
Use of paint containing lead.
35.140
Prohibited methods of paint removal.
35.145
Compliance with Federal laws and authorities.
35.150
Compliance with other State, tribal, and local laws.
35.155
Minimum requirements.
35.160
Waivers.
35.165
Prior evaluation or hazard reduction.
35.170
Noncompliance with the requirements of subparts B through R.
35.175
Records.

# Subpart C—Disposition of Residential Property Owned by a Federal Agency Other Than HUD
35.200
Purpose and applicability.
35.205
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.210
Disposition of residential property constructed before 1960.
35.215
Disposition of residential property constructed after 1959 and before 1978.

# Subpart D—Project-Based Assistance Provided by a Federal Agency Other Than HUD
35.300
Purpose and applicability.
35.305
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.310
Notices and pamphlet.
35.315
Risk assessments.
35.320
Hazard reduction.
35.325
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—HUD-Owned Single Family Property
35.500
Purpose and applicability.
35.505
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.510
Required procedures.

# Subpart G—Multifamily Mortgage Insurance
35.600
Purpose and applicability.
35.605
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.610
Exemption.
35.615
Notices and pamphlet.
35.620
Multifamily insured property constructed before 1960.
35.625
Multifamily Insured Property constructed after 1959 and before 1978.
35.630
Conversions and Major Rehabilitations.

# Subpart H—Project-Based Assistance
35.700
Purpose and applicability.
35.705
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.710
Notices and pamphlet.
35.715
Multifamily properties receiving more than $5,000 per unit.
35.720
Multifamily properties receiving up to $5,000 per unit, and single-family properties.
35.725
Section 8 rent adjustments.
35.730
Child with an elevated blood lead level.

# Subpart I—HUD-Owned and Mortgagee-in-Possession Multifamily Property
35.800
Purpose and applicability.
35.805
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.810
Notices and pamphlet.
35.815
Evaluation.
35.820
Interim controls.
35.825
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation.
35.830
Child with an elevated blood lead level.

# Subpart J—Rehabilitation
35.900
Purpose and applicability.
35.905
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.910
Notices and pamphlet.
35.915
Calculating Federal rehabilitation assistance.
35.920
[Reserved]
35.925
Examples of determining applicable requirements.
35.930
Evaluation and hazard reduction requirements.
35.935
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities.
35.940
Special requirements for insular areas.

# Subpart K—Acquisition, Leasing, Support Services, or Operation
35.1000
Purpose and applicability.
35.1005
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.1010
Notices and pamphlet.
35.1015
Visual assessment, paint stabilization, and maintenance.
35.1020
Funding for evaluation and hazard reduction.

# Subpart L—Public Housing Programs
35.1100
Purpose and applicability.
35.1105
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.1110
Notices and pamphlet.
35.1115
Evaluation.
35.1120
Hazard reduction.
35.1125
Evaluation and hazard reduction before acquisition and development.
35.1130
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
35.1135
Eligible costs.
35.1140
Insurance coverage.

# Subpart M—Tenant-Based Rental Assistance
35.1200
Purpose and applicability.
35.1205
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.1210
Notices and pamphlet.
35.1215
Activities at initial and periodic inspections.
35.1220
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities.
35.1225
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
Subparts N-Q [Reserved]

# Subpart R—Methods and Standards for Lead-Based Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities
35.1300
Purpose and applicability.
35.1305
Definitions and other general requirements.
35.1310
References.
35.1315
Collection and laboratory analysis of samples.
35.1320
Lead-based paint inspections, paint testing, risk assessments, lead-hazard screens, and reevaluations.
35.1325
Abatement.
35.1330
Interim controls.
35.1335
Standard treatments.
35.1340
Clearance.
35.1345
Occupant protection and worksite preparation.
35.1350
Safe work practices.
35.1355
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 4821, and 4851.

# Subpart A—Disclosure of Known Lead-Based Paint and/or Lead-Based Paint Hazards Upon Sale or Lease of Residential Property

# Source:
61 FR 9082, Mar. 6, 1996, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 64 FR 50201, Sept. 15, 1999.
§ 35.80
Purpose.
This subpart implements the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 4852d, which impose certain requirements on the sale or lease of target housing. Under this subpart, a seller or lessor of target housing shall disclose to the purchaser or lessee the presence of any known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards; provide available records and reports; provide the purchaser or lessee with a lead hazard information pamphlet; give purchasers a 10-day opportunity to conduct a risk assessment or inspection; and attach specific disclosure and warning language to the sales or leasing contract before the purchaser or lessee is obligated under a contract to purchase or lease target housing.
§ 35.82
Scope and applicability.
This subpart applies to all transactions to sell or lease target housing, including subleases, with the exception of the following:
(a) Sales of target housing at foreclosure.
(b) Leases of target housing that have been found to be lead-based paint free by an inspector certified under the Federal certification program or under a federally accredited State or tribal certification program. Until a Federal certification program or federally accredited State certification program is in place within the State, inspectors shall be considered qualified to conduct an inspection for this purpose if they have received certification under any existing State or tribal inspector certification program. The lessor has the option of using the results of additional test(s) by a certified inspector to confirm or refute a prior finding.
(c) Short-term leases of 100 days or less, where no lease renewal or extension can occur.
(d) Renewals of existing leases in target housing in which the lessor has previously disclosed all information required under § 35.88 and where no new information described in § 35.88 has come into the possession of the lessor. For the purposes of this paragraph, renewal shall include both renegotiation of existing lease terms and/or ratification of a new lease.
§ 35.84
Effective dates.
The requirements in this subpart take effect in the following manner:
(a) For owners of more than four residential dwellings, the requirements shall take effect on September 6, 1996.
(b) For owners of one to four residential dwellings, the requirements shall take effect on December 6, 1996.
§ 35.86
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart.
The Act
means the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992, 42 U.S.C. 4852d.
Agent
means any party who enters into a contract with a seller or lessor, including any party who enters into a contract with a representative of the seller or lessor, for the purpose of selling or leasing target housing. This term does not apply to purchasers or any purchaser's representative who receives all compensation from the purchaser.
Available
means in the possession of or reasonably obtainable by the seller or lessor at the time of the disclosure.
Common area
means a portion of a building generally accessible to all residents/users including, but not limited to, hallways, stairways, laundry and recreational rooms, playgrounds, community centers, and boundary fences.
Contract for the purchase and sale of residential real property
means any contract or agreement in which one party agrees to purchase an interest in real property on which there is situated one or more residential dwellings used or occupied, or intended to be used or occupied, in whole or in part, as the home or residence of one or more persons.
EPA
means the Environmental Protection Agency.
Evaluation
means a risk assessment and/or inspection.
Foreclosure
means any of the various methods, statutory or otherwise, known in different jurisdictions, of enforcing payment of a debt, by the taking and selling of real property.
Housing for the elderly
means retirement communities or similar types of housing reserved for households composed of one or more persons 62 years of age or more at the time of initial occupancy.
Inspection
means:
(1) A surface-by-surface investigation to determine the presence of lead-based paint as provided in section 302(c) of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning and Prevention Act [42 U.S.C. 4822], and
(2) The provision of a report explaining the results of the investigation.
Lead-based paint
means paint or other surface coatings that contain lead equal to or in excess of 1.0 milligram per square centimeter or 0.5 percent by weight.
Lead-based paint free housing
means target housing that has been found to be free of paint or other surface coatings that contain lead equal to or in excess of 1.0 milligram per square centimeter or 0.5 percent by weight.
Lead-based paint hazard
means any condition that causes exposure to lead from lead-contaminated dust, lead-contaminated soil, or lead-contaminated paint that is deteriorated or present in accessible surfaces, friction surfaces, or impact surfaces that would result in adverse human health effects as established by the appropriate Federal agency.
Lessee
means any entity that enters into an agreement to lease, rent, or sublease target housing, including but not limited to individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, government agencies, housing agencies, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations.
Lessor
means any entity that offers target housing for lease, rent, or sublease, including but not limited to individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, government agencies, housing agencies, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations.
Owner
means any entity that has legal title to target housing, including but not limited to individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, government agencies, housing agencies, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations, except where a mortgagee holds legal title to property serving as collateral for a mortgage loan, in which case the owner would be the mortgagor.
Purchaser
means an entity that enters into an agreement to purchase an interest in target housing, including but not limited to individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, government agencies, housing agencies, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations.
Reduction
means measures designed to reduce or eliminate human exposure to lead-based paint hazards through methods including interim controls and abatement.
Residential dwelling
means:
(1) A single-family dwelling, including attached structures such as porches and stoops; or
(2) A single-family dwelling unit in a structure that contains more than one separate residential dwelling unit, and in which each such unit is used or occupied, or intended to be used or occupied, in whole or in part, as the residence of one or more persons.
Risk assessment
means an on-site investigation to determine and report the existence, nature, severity, and location of lead-based paint hazards in residential dwellings, including:
(1) Information gathering regarding the age and history of the housing and occupancy by children under age 6;
(2) Visual inspection;
(3) Limited wipe sampling or other environmental sampling techniques;
(4) Other activity as may be appropriate; and
(5) Provision of a report explaining the results of the investigation.
Seller
means any entity that transfers legal title to target housing, in whole or in part, in return for consideration, including but not limited to individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, government agencies, housing agencies, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations. The term “seller” also includes:
(1) An entity that transfers shares in a cooperatively owned project, in return for consideration; and
(2) An entity that transfers its interest in a leasehold, in jurisdictions or circumstances where it is legally permissible to separate the fee title from the title to the improvement, in return for consideration.
Target housing
means any housing constructed prior to 1978, except housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities (unless any child who is less than 6 years of age resides or is expected to reside in such housing) or any 0-bedroom dwelling.
TSCA
means the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601.
0-bedroom dwelling
means any residential dwelling in which the living area is not separated from the sleeping area. The term includes efficiencies, studio apartments, dormitory housing, military barracks, and rentals of individual rooms in residential dwellings.
§ 35.88
Disclosure requirements for sellers and lessors.
(a) The following activities shall be completed before the purchaser or lessee is obligated under any contract to purchase or lease target housing that is not otherwise an exempt transaction pursuant to § 35.82. Nothing in this section implies a positive obligation on the seller or lessor to conduct any evaluation or reduction activities.
(1) The seller or lessor shall provide the purchaser or lessee with an EPA-approved lead hazard information pamphlet. Such pamphlets include the EPA document entitled
Protect Your Family From Lead in Your Home
(EPA −747-K-94-001) or an equivalent pamphlet that has been approved for use in that State by EPA.
(2) The seller or lessor shall disclose to the purchaser or lessee the presence of any known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being sold or leased. The seller or lessor shall also disclose any additional information available concerning the known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, such as the basis for the determination that lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards exist, the location of the lead-based paint and/or lead-based
paint hazards, and the condition of the painted surfaces.
(3) The seller or lessor shall disclose to each agent the presence of any known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being sold or leased and the existence of any available records or reports pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards. The seller or lessor shall also disclose any additional information available concerning the known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, such as the basis for the determination that lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards exist, the location of the lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, and the condition of the painted surfaces.
(4) The seller or lessor shall provide the purchaser or lessee with any records or reports available to the seller or lessor pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being sold or leased. This requirement includes records and reports regarding common areas. This requirement also includes records and reports regarding other residential dwellings in multifamily target housing, provided that such information is part of an evaluation or reduction of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing as a whole.
(b) If any of the disclosure activities identified in paragraph (a) of this section occurs after the purchaser or lessee has provided an offer to purchase or lease the housing, the seller or lessor shall complete the required disclosure activities prior to accepting the purchaser's or lessee's offer and allow the purchaser or lessee an opportunity to review the information and possibly amend the offer.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2070-0151)
[61 FR 9082, Mar. 6, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 14382, Mar. 25, 1999]
§ 35.90
Opportunity to conduct an evaluation.
(a) Before a purchaser is obligated under any contract to purchase target housing, the seller shall permit the purchaser a 10-day period (unless the parties mutually agree, in writing, upon a different period of time) to conduct a risk assessment or inspection for the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a purchaser may waive the opportunity to conduct the risk assessment or inspection by so indicating in writing.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2070-0151)
[61 FR 9082, Mar. 6, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 14382, Mar. 25, 1999]
§ 35.92
Certification and acknowledgment of disclosure.
(a)
Seller requirements.
Each contract to sell target housing shall include an attachment containing the following elements, in the language of the contract (e.g., English, Spanish):
(1) A Lead Warning Statement consisting of the following language:
Every purchaser of any interest in residential real property on which a residential dwelling was built prior to 1978 is notified that such property may present exposure to lead from lead-based paint that may place young children at risk of developing lead poisoning. Lead poisoning in young children may produce permanent neurological damage, including learning disabilities, reduced intelligence quotient, behavioral problems, and impaired memory. Lead poisoning also poses a particular risk to pregnant women. The seller of any interest in residential real property is required to provide the buyer with any information on lead-based paint hazards from risk assessments or inspections in the seller's possession and notify the buyer of any known lead-based paint hazards. A risk assessment or inspection for possible lead-based paint hazards is recommended prior to purchase.
(2) A statement by the seller disclosing the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being sold or indicating no knowledge of the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards. The seller shall also provide any additional information available concerning the known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, such as the basis for the determination that lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards exist, the location of the lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards,
and the condition of the painted surfaces.
(3) A list of any records or reports available to the seller pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing that have been provided to the purchaser. If no such records or reports are available, the seller shall so indicate.
(4) A statement by the purchaser affirming receipt of the information set out in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section and the lead hazard information pamphlet required under section 15 U.S.C. 2696.
(5) A statement by the purchaser that he/she has either:
(i) Received the opportunity to conduct the risk assessment or inspection required by § 35.90(a); or
(ii) Waived the opportunity.
(6) When any agent is involved in the transaction to sell target housing on behalf of the seller, a statement that:
(i) The agent has informed the seller of the seller's obligations under 42 U.S.C. 4852d; and
(ii) The agent is aware of his/her duty to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(7) The signatures of the sellers, agents, and purchasers, certifying to the accuracy of their statements, to the best of their knowledge, along with the dates of signature.
(b)
Lessor requirements.
Each contract to lease target housing shall include, as an attachment or within the contract, the following elements, in the language of the contract (e.g., English, Spanish):
(1) A Lead Warning Statement with the following language:
Housing built before 1978 may contain lead-based paint. Lead from paint, paint chips, and dust can pose health hazards if not managed properly. Lead exposure is especially harmful to young children and pregnant women. Before renting pre-1978 housing, lessors must disclose the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the dwelling. Lessees must also receive a federally approved pamphlet on lead poisoning prevention.
(2) A statement by the lessor disclosing the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the target housing being leased or indicating no knowledge of the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards. The lessor shall also disclose any additional information available concerning the known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, such as the basis for the determination that lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards exist in the housing, the location of the lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards, and the condition of the painted surfaces.
(3) A list of any records or reports available to the lessor pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing that have been provided to the lessee. If no such records or reports are available, the lessor shall so indicate.
(4) A statement by the lessee affirming receipt of the information set out in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section and the lead hazard information pamphlet required under 15 U.S.C. 2696.
(5) When any agent is involved in the transaction to lease target housing on behalf of the lessor, a statement that:
(i) The agent has informed the lessor of the lessor's obligations under 42 U.S.C. 4852d; and
(ii) The agent is aware of his/her duty to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(6) The signatures of the lessors, agents, and lessees certifying to the accuracy of their statements to the best of their knowledge, along with the dates of signature.
(c)
Retention of certification and acknowledgment information.
(1) The seller, and any agent, shall retain a copy of the completed attachment required under paragraph (a) of this section for no less than 3 years from the completion date of the sale. The lessor, and any agent, shall retain a copy of the completed attachment or lease contract containing the information required under paragraph (b) of this section for no less than 3 years from the commencement of the leasing period.
(2) This recordkeeping requirement is not intended to place any limitations on civil suits under the Act, or to otherwise affect a lessee's or purchaser's rights under the civil penalty provisions of 42 U.S.C. 4852d(b)(3).
(d) The seller, lessor, or agent shall not be responsible for the failure of a
purchaser's or lessee's legal representative (where such representative receives all compensation from the purchaser or lessee) to transmit disclosure materials to the purchaser or lessee, provided that all required parties have completed and signed the necessary certification and acknowledgment language required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2070-0151)
[61 FR 9082, Mar. 6, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 14382, Mar. 25, 1999]
§ 35.94
Agent responsibilities.
(a) Each agent shall ensure compliance with all requirements of this subpart. To ensure compliance, the agent shall:
(1) Inform the seller or lessor of his/her obligations under §§ 35.88, 35.90, and 35.92.
(2) Ensure that the seller or lessor has performed all activities required under §§ 35.88, 35.90, and 35.92, or personally ensure compliance with the requirements of §§ 35.88, 35.90, and 35.92.
(b) If the agent has complied with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the agent shall not be liable for the failure to disclose to a purchaser or lessee the presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards known by a seller or lessor but not disclosed to the agent.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2070-0151)
[61 FR 9082, Mar. 6, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 14382, Mar. 25, 1999]
§ 35.96
Enforcement.
(a) Any person who knowingly fails to comply with any provision of this subpart shall be subject to civil monetary penalties in accordance with the provisions of 42 U.S.C. 3545 and 24 CFR part 30.
(b) The Secretary is authorized to take such action as may be necessary to enjoin any violation of this subpart in the appropriate Federal district court.
(c) Any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this subpart shall be jointly and severally liable to the purchaser or lessee in an amount equal to 3 times the amount of damages incurred by such individual.
(d) In any civil action brought for damages pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4852d(b)(3), the appropriate court may award court costs to the party commencing such action, together with reasonable attorney fees and any expert witness fees, if that party prevails.
(e) Failure or refusal to comply with §§ 35.88 (disclosure requirements for sellers and lessors), § 35.90 (opportunity to conduct an evaluation), § 35.92 (certification and acknowledgment of disclosure), or § 35.94 (agent responsibilities) is a violation of 42 U.S.C. 4852d(b)(5) and of TSCA section 409 (15 U.S.C. 2689).
(f) Violators may be subject to civil and criminal sanctions pursuant to TSCA section 16 (15 U.S.C. 2615) for each violation. For purposes of enforcing this subpart, the penalty for each violation applicable under 15 U.S.C. 2615 shall be not more than $10,000.
§ 35.98
Impact on State and local requirements.
Nothing in this subpart shall relieve a seller, lessor, or agent from any responsibility for compliance with State or local laws, ordinances, codes, or regulations governing notice or disclosure of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards. Neither HUD nor EPA assumes any responsibility for ensuring compliance with such State or local requirements.

# Subpart B—General Lead-Based Paint Requirements and Definitions for All Programs.

# Source:
64 FR 50202, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.100
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
The requirements of subparts B through R of this part are promulgated to implement the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4821
et seq.
), and the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851
et seq.
).
(b)
Applicability
—(1)
This subpart.
This subpart applies to all target housing that is federally owned and target housing receiving Federal assistance to
which subparts C, D, F through M, and R of this part apply, except where indicated.
(2)
Other subparts
—(i)
General.
Subparts C, D, and F through M of this part each set forth requirements for a specific type of Federal housing activity or assistance, such as multifamily mortgage insurance, project-based rental assistance, rehabilitation, or tenant-based rental assistance. Subpart R of this part provides standards and methods for activities required in subparts B, C, D, and F through M of this part.
(ii)
Application to programs.
Most HUD housing programs are covered by only one subpart of this part, but some programs can be used for more than one type of assistance and therefore are covered by more than one subpart of this part. A current list of programs covered by each subpart of this part is available on the internet at
www.hud.gov,
or by mail from the National Lead Information Center at 1-800-424-LEAD. Examples of flexible programs that can provide more than one type of assistance are the HOME Investment Partnerships program, the Community Development Block Grant program, and the Indian Housing Block Grant Program. Grantees, participating jurisdictions, Indian tribes and other entities administering such flexible programs must decide which subpart applies to the type of assistance being provided to a particular dwelling unit or residential property.
(iii)
Application to dwelling units.
In some cases, more than one type of assistance may be provided to the same dwelling unit. In such cases, the subpart or section with the most protective initial hazard reduction requirements applies. Paragraph (c) of this section provides a table that lists the subparts and sections of this part in order from the most protective to the least protective. (This list is based only on the requirements for initial hazard reduction. The summary of requirements on this list is not a complete list of requirements. It is necessary to refer to the applicable subparts and sections to determine all applicable requirements.)
(iv)
Example.
A multifamily building has 100 dwelling units and was built in 1965. The property is financed with HUD multifamily mortgage insurance. This building is covered by subpart G of this part (see § 35.625—Multifamily mortgage insurance for properties constructed after 1959), which is at protectiveness level 5 in the table set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. In the same building, however, 50 of the 100 dwelling units are receiving project-based assistance, and the average annual assistance per assisted unit is $5,500. Those 50 units, and common areas servicing those units, are covered by the requirements of subpart H of this part (see § 35.715—Project-based assistance for multifamily properties receiving more than $5,000 per unit), which are at protectiveness level 3. Therefore, because level 3 is a higher level of protectiveness than level 5, the units receiving project-based assistance, and common areas servicing those units, must comply at level 3, while the rest of the building can be operated at level 5. The owner may choose to operate the entire building at level 3 for simplicity.
(c)
Table One.
The following table lists the subparts and sections of this part applying to HUD programs in order from most protective to least protective hazard reduction requirements. The summary of hazard reduction requirements in this table is not complete. Readers must refer to relevant subpart for complete requirements.
Level of protection
Subpart, section, and type of assistance
Hazard reduction
requirements
1
Subpart L, Public housing. Subpart G, § 35.630, Multifamily mortgage insurance for conversions and major rehabilitations
Full abatement of lead-based paint.
2
Subpart J, § 35.930(d), Properties receiving more than $25,000 per unit in rehabilitation assistance
Abatement of lead-based paint hazards.
3
Subpart G, § 35.620, Multifamily mortgage insurance for properties constructed before 1960, other than conversions and major rehabilitations. Subpart H, § 35.715, Project-based assistance for multifamily properties receiving more than $5,000 per unit. Subpart I, HUD-owned multifamily property. Subpart J, § 35.930(c), Properties receiving more than $5,000 and up to $25,000 per unit in rehabilitation assistance
Interim controls.
4
Subpart F, HUD-owned single family properties. Subpart H, § 35.720, Project-based rental assistance for multifamily properties receiving up to $5,000 per unit and single family properties. Subpart K, Acquisition, leasing, support services, or operation. Subpart M, Tenant-based rental assistance
Paint stabilization.
5
Subpart G, § 35.625, Multifamily mortgage insurance for properties constructed after 1959
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance.
6
Subpart J, § 35.930(b), Properties receiving up to and including $5,000 in rehabilitation assistance
Safe work practices during rehabilitation.
§ 35.105
[Reserved]
§ 35.106
Information collection requirements.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 2501-3520), and have been assigned OMB control number 2539-0009. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless the collection displays a valid control number.
§ 35.110
Definitions.
Abatement
means any set of measures designed to permanently eliminate lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards (see definition of “permanent”). Abatement includes:
(1) The removal of lead-based paint and dust-lead hazards, the permanent enclosure or encapsulation of lead-based paint, the replacement of components or fixtures painted with lead-based paint, and the removal or permanent covering of soil-lead hazards; and
(2) All preparation, cleanup, disposal, and post abatement clearance testing activities associated with such measures.
Act
means the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4822
et seq.
Bare soil
means soil or sand not covered by grass, sod, other live ground covers, wood chips, gravel, artificial turf, or similar covering.
Certified
means certified to perform such activities as risk assessment, lead-based paint inspection, abatement supervision, or renovation, either by a State or Indian tribe with a lead-based paint certification program authorized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in accordance with 40 CFR part 745, subpart Q, or by the EPA, in accordance with 40 CFR part 745, subparts E or L.
Chewable
surface means an interior or exterior surface painted with lead-based paint that a young child can mouth or chew. A chewable surface is the same as an “accessible surface” as defined in 42 U.S.C. 4851b(2)). Hard metal substrates and other materials that cannot be dented by the bite of a young child are not considered chewable.
Clearance examination
means an activity conducted following lead-based paint hazard reduction activities to determine that the hazard reduction activities are complete and that no soil-lead hazards or settled dust-lead hazards, as defined in this part, exist in the dwelling unit or worksite. The clearance process includes a visual assessment and collection and analysis of environmental samples. Dust-lead standards for clearance are found at § 35.1320.
Common area
means a portion of a residential property that is available for use by occupants of more than one dwelling unit. Such an area may include, but is not limited to, hallways, stairways, laundry and recreational rooms, playgrounds, community centers, on-site day care facilities, garages and boundary fences.
Component
means an architectural element of a dwelling unit or common area identified by type and location, such as a bedroom wall, an exterior window sill, a baseboard in a living room, a kitchen floor, an interior window sill in a bathroom, a porch floor, stair treads in a common stairwell, or an exterior wall.
Composite sample
means a collection of more than one sample of the same medium (e.g., dust, soil or paint) from
the same type of surface (e.g., floor, interior window sill, or window trough), such that multiple samples can be analyzed as a single sample.
Containment
means the physical measures taken to ensure that dust and debris created or released during lead-based paint hazard reduction are not spread, blown or tracked from inside to outside of the worksite.
Designated party
means a Federal agency, grantee, subrecipient, participating jurisdiction, housing agency, Indian Tribe, tribally designated housing entity (TDHE), sponsor, or property owner responsible for complying with applicable requirements.
Deteriorated paint
means any interior or exterior paint or other coating that is peeling, chipping, chalking or cracking, or any paint or coating located on an interior or exterior surface or fixture that is otherwise damaged or separated from the substrate.
Dry sanding
means sanding without moisture and includes both hand and machine sanding.
Dust-lead hazard means surface dust that contains a dust-lead loading (area concentration of lead) equal to or exceeding the levels promulgated by the EPA at 40 CFR 745.65 or, if such levels are not in effect, the standards for dust-lead hazards in § 35.1320.
Dwelling unit
means a:
(1) Single-family dwelling, including attached structures such as porches and stoops; or
(2) Housing unit in a structure that contains more than 1 separate housing unit, and in which each such unit is used or occupied, or intended to be used or occupied, in whole or in part, as the home or separate living quarters of 1 or more persons.
Elevated blood lead level
means a confirmed concentration of lead in whole blood of a child under age 6 equal to or greater than the concentration in the most recent guidance published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on recommending that an environmental intervention be conducted. (When HHS changes the value, HUD will publish a notice in the
Federal Register,
with the opportunity for public comment, on its intent to apply the changed value to this part, and, after considering comments, publish a notice on its applying the changed value to this part.)
Encapsulation
means the application of a covering or coating that acts as a barrier between the lead-based paint and the environment and that relies for its durability on adhesion between the encapsulant and the painted surface, and on the integrity of the existing bonds between paint layers and between the paint and the substrate. Encapsulation may be used as a method of abatement if it is designed and performed so as to be permanent (see definition of “permanent”).
Enclosure
means the use of rigid, durable construction materials that are mechanically fastened to the substrate in order to act as a barrier between lead-based paint and the environment. Enclosure may be used as a method of abatement if it is designed to be permanent (see definition of “permanent”).
Environmental investigation
means the process of determining the source of lead exposure for a child under age 6 with an elevated blood lead level, consisting of administration of a questionnaire, comprehensive environmental sampling, case management, and other measures, in accordance with chapter 16 of the HUD Guidelines for the Evaluation and Control of Lead-Based Paint Hazards in Housing (“Guidelines”).
Evaluation
means a risk assessment, a lead hazard screen, a lead-based paint inspection, paint testing, or a combination of these to determine the presence of lead-based paint hazards or lead-based paint, or an environmental investigation.
Expected to reside
means there is actual knowledge that a child will reside in a dwelling unit reserved or designated exclusively for the elderly or reserved or designated exclusively for persons with disabilities. If a resident woman is known to be pregnant, there is actual knowledge that a child will reside in the dwelling unit.
Federal agency
means the United States or any executive department, independent establishment, administrative agency and instrumentality of the United States, including a corporation in which all or a substantial amount of the stock is beneficially
owned by the United States or by any of these entities. The term “Federal agency” includes, but is not limited to, Rural Housing Service (formerly Rural Housing and Community Development Service that was formerly Farmer's Home Administration), Resolution Trust Corporation, General Services Administration, Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Department of Transportation.
Federally owned property
means residential property owned or managed by a Federal agency, or for which a Federal agency is a trustee or conservator.
Firm commitment
means a valid commitment issued by HUD or the Federal Housing Commissioner setting forth the terms and conditions upon which a mortgage will be insured or guaranteed.
Friction surface
means an interior or exterior surface that is subject to abrasion or friction, including, but not limited to, certain window, floor, and stair surfaces.
g
means gram,
mg
means milligram (thousandth of a gram), and µg means microgram (millionth of a gram).
Grantee
means any state or local government, Indian Tribe, IHBG recipient, insular area or nonprofit organization that has been designated by HUD to administer Federal housing assistance under a program covered by subparts J and K of this part, except the HOME program.
Hard costs of rehabilitation
means:
(1) Costs to correct substandard conditions or to meet applicable local rehabilitation standards;
(2) Costs to make essential improvements, including energy-related repairs, and those necessary to permit use by persons with disabilities; and costs to repair or replace major housing systems in danger of failure; and
(3) Costs of non-essential improvements, including additions and alterations to an existing structure; but
(4) Hard costs do not include administrative costs (e.g., overhead for administering a rehabilitation program, processing fees, etc.).
Hazard reduction
means measures designed to reduce or eliminate human exposure to lead-based paint hazards through methods including interim controls or abatement or a combination of the two.
HEPA vacuum
means a vacuum cleaner device with an included high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter through which the contaminated air flows, operated in accordance with the instructions of its manufacturer. A HEPA filter is one that captures at least 99.97 percent of airborne particles of at least 0.3 micrometers in diameter.
Housing for the elderly
means retirement communities or similar types of housing reserved for households composed of one or more persons 62 years of age or more, or other age if recognized as elderly by a specific Federal housing assistance program.
Housing receiving Federal assistance
means housing which is covered by an application for HUD mortgage insurance, receives housing assistance payments under a program administered by HUD, or otherwise receives more than $5,000 in project-based assistance under a Federal housing program administered by an agency other than HUD.
HUD
means the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
HUD-owned property
means residential property owned or managed by HUD, or for which HUD is a trustee or conservator.
Impact surface
means an interior or exterior surface that is subject to damage by repeated sudden force, such as certain parts of door frames.
Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) recipient
means a tribe or a tribally designated housing entity (TDHE) receiving IHBG funds.
Indian tribe
means a tribe as defined in the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
)
Inspection
(See Lead-based paint inspection).
Insular areas
means Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands and American Samoa.
Interim controls
means a set of measures designed to reduce temporarily human exposure or likely exposure to lead-based paint hazards. Interim controls include, but are not limited to, repairs, painting, temporary containment, specialized cleaning, clearance,
ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities, and the establishment and operation of management and resident education programs.
Interior window sill
means the portion of the horizontal window ledge that protrudes into the interior of the room, adjacent to the window sash when the window is closed. The interior window sill is sometimes referred to as the window stool.
Lead-based paint
means paint or other surface coatings that contain lead equal to or exceeding 1.0 milligram per square centimeter or 0.5 percent by weight or 5,000 parts per million (ppm) by weight.
Lead-based paint hazard
means any condition that causes exposure to lead from dust-lead hazards, soil-lead hazards, or lead-based paint that is deteriorated or present in chewable surfaces, friction surfaces, or impact surfaces, and that would result in adverse human health effects.
Lead-based paint inspection
means a surface-by-surface investigation to determine the presence of lead-based paint and the provision of a report explaining the results of the investigation.
Lead hazard screen
means a limited risk assessment activity that involves paint testing and dust sampling and analysis as described in 40 CFR 745.227(c) and soil sampling and analysis as described in 40 CFR 745.227(d).
Mortgagee
means a lender of a mortgage loan.
Mortgagor
means a borrower of a mortgage loan.
Multifamily property
means a residential property containing five or more dwelling units.
Occupant
means a person who inhabits a dwelling unit.
Owner
means a person, firm, corporation, nonprofit organization, partnership, government, guardian, conservator, receiver, trustee, executor, or other judicial officer, or other entity which, alone or with others, owns, holds, or controls the freehold or leasehold title or part of the title to property, with or without actually possessing it. The definition includes a vendee who possesses the title, but does not include a mortgagee or an owner of a reversionary interest under a ground rent lease.
Paint stabilization
means repairing any physical defect in the substrate of a painted surface that is causing paint deterioration, removing loose paint and other material from the surface to be treated, and applying a new protective coating or paint.
Paint testing
means the process of determining, by a certified lead-based paint inspector or risk assessor, the presence or the absence of lead-based paint on deteriorated paint surfaces or painted surfaces to be disturbed or replaced.
Paint removal
means a method of abatement that permanently eliminates lead-based paint from surfaces.
Painted surface to be disturbed
means a paint surface that is to be scraped, sanded, cut, penetrated or otherwise affected by rehabilitation work in a manner that could potentially create a lead-based paint hazard by generating dust, fumes, or paint chips.
Participating jurisdiction
means any State or local government that has been designated by HUD to administer a HOME program grant.
Permanent
means an expected design life of at least 20 years.
Play area
means an area of frequent soil contact by children of less than 6 years of age, as indicated by the presence of play equipment (e.g. sandboxes, swing sets, sliding boards, etc.) or toys or other children's possessions, observations of play patterns, or information provided by parents, residents or property owners.
Project-based rental assistance
means Federal rental assistance that is tied to a residential property with a specific location and remains with that particular location throughout the term of the assistance.
Public health department
means a State, tribal, county or municipal public health department or the Indian Health Service.
Public housing development
means a residential property assisted under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437
et seq.
), but not including housing assisted under section 8 of the 1937 Act.
Reevaluation
means a visual assessment of painted surfaces and limited
dust and soil sampling conducted periodically following lead-based paint hazard reduction where lead-based paint is still present.
Rehabilitation
means the improvement of an existing structure through alterations, incidental additions or enhancements. Rehabilitation includes repairs necessary to correct the results of deferred maintenance, the replacement of principal fixtures and components, improvements to increase the efficient use of energy, and installation of security devices.
Replacement
means a strategy of abatement that entails the removal of building components that have surfaces coated with lead-based paint and the installation of new components free of lead-based paint.
Residential property
means a dwelling unit, common areas, building exterior surfaces, and any surrounding land, including outbuildings, fences and play equipment affixed to the land, belonging to an owner and available for use by residents, but not including land used for agricultural, commercial, industrial or other non-residential purposes, and not including paint on the pavement of parking lots, garages, or roadways.
Risk assessment
means:
(1) An on-site investigation to determine the existence, nature, severity, and location of lead-based paint hazards; and
(2) The provision of a report by the individual or firm conducting the risk assessment explaining the results of the investigation and options for reducing lead-based paint hazards.
Single family property
means a residential property containing one through four dwelling units.
Single room occupancy (SRO) housing
means housing consisting of zero-bedroom dwelling units that may contain food preparation or sanitary facilities or both (see Zero-bedroom dwelling).
Soil-lead hazard
means bare soil on residential property that contains lead equal to or exceeding levels promulgated by the EPA at 40 CFR 745.65 or, if such levels are not in effect, the standards for soil-lead hazards in § 35.1320.
Sponsor
means mortgagor (borrower).
Subrecipient
means any nonprofit organization selected by the grantee or participating jurisdiction to administer all or a portion of the Federal rehabilitation assistance or other non-rehabilitation assistance, or any such organization selected by a subrecipient of the grantee or participating jurisdiction. An owner or developer receiving Federal rehabilitation assistance or other assistance for a residential property is not considered a subrecipient for the purposes of carrying out that project.
Standard treatments
means a series of hazard reduction measures designed to reduce all lead-based paint hazards in a dwelling unit without the benefit of a risk assessment or other evaluation.
Substrate
means the material directly beneath the painted surface out of which the components are constructed, including wood, drywall, plaster, concrete, brick or metal.
Target housing
means any housing constructed prior to 1978, except housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities (unless a child of less than 6 years of age resides or is expected to reside in such housing for the elderly or persons with disabilities) or any zero-bedroom dwelling. In the case of jurisdictions which banned the sale or use of lead-based paint prior to 1978, HUD may designate an earlier date.
Tenant
means the individual named as the lessee in a lease, rental agreement or occupancy agreement for a dwelling unit.
A
visual assessment
alone is not considered an evaluation for the purposes of this part. Visual assessment means looking for, as applicable:
(1) Deteriorated paint;
(2) Visible surface dust, debris, and residue as part of a risk assessment or clearance examination; or
(3) The completion or failure of a hazard reduction measure.
Wet sanding
or
wet scraping
means a process of removing loose paint in which the painted surface to be sanded or scraped is kept wet to minimize the dispersal of paint chips and airborne dust.
Window trough
means the area between the interior window sill (stool) and the storm window frame. If there is no storm window, the window trough is
the area that receives both the upper and lower window sashes when they are both lowered.
Worksite
means an interior or exterior area where lead-based paint hazard reduction activity takes place. There may be more than one worksite in a dwelling unit or at a residential property.
Zero-bedroom dwelling
means any residential dwelling in which the living areas are not separated from the sleeping area. The term includes efficiencies, studio apartments, dormitory or single room occupancy housing, military barracks, and rentals of individual rooms in residential dwellings (see Single room occupancy (SRO)).
[64 FR 50202, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34271, June 21, 2004; 69 FR 40474, July 2, 2004; 82 FR 4166, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.115
Exemptions.
(a) Subparts B through R of this part do not apply to the following:
(1) A residential property for which construction was completed on or after January 1, 1978, or, in the case of jurisdictions which banned the sale or residential use of lead-containing paint prior to 1978, an earlier date as HUD may designate (see § 35.160).
(2) A zero-bedroom dwelling unit, including a single room occupancy (SRO) dwelling unit.
(3) Housing for the elderly, or a residential property designated exclusively for persons with disabilities; except this exemption shall not apply if a child less than age 6 resides or is expected to reside in the dwelling unit (see definitions of “housing for the elderly” and “expected to reside” in § 35.110).
(4) Residential property found not to have lead-based paint by a lead-based paint inspection conducted in accordance with § 35.1320(a) (for more information regarding inspection procedures consult the 1997 edition of Chapter 7 of the HUD Guidelines). Results of additional test(s) by a certified lead-based paint inspector may be used to confirm or refute a prior finding.
(5) Residential property in which all lead-based paint has been identified, removed, and clearance has been achieved in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(b)(e) before September 15, 2000, or in accordance with §§ 35.1320, 35.1325 and 35.1340 on or after September 15, 2000. This exemption does not apply to residential property where enclosure or encapsulation has been used as a method of abatement.
(6) An unoccupied dwelling unit or residential property that is to be demolished, provided the dwelling unit or property will remain unoccupied until demolition.
(7) A property or part of a property that is not used and will not be used for human residential habitation, except that spaces such as entryways, hallways, corridors, passageways or stairways serving both residential and nonresidential uses in a mixed-use property shall not be exempt.
(8) Any rehabilitation that does not disturb a painted surface.
(9) For emergency actions immediately necessary to safeguard against imminent danger to human life, health or safety, or to protect property from further structural damage (such as when a property has been damaged by a natural disaster, fire, or structural collapse), occupants shall be protected from exposure to lead in dust and debris generated by such emergency actions to the extent practicable, and the requirements of subparts B through R of this part shall not apply. This exemption applies only to repairs necessary to respond to the emergency. The requirements of subparts B through R of this part shall apply to any work undertaken subsequent to, or above and beyond, such emergency actions.
(10) If a Federal law enforcement agency has seized a residential property and owns the property for less than 270 days, §§ 35.210 and 35.215 shall not apply to the property.
(11) The requirements of subpart K of this part do not apply if the assistance being provided is emergency rental assistance or foreclosure prevention assistance, provided that this exemption shall expire for a dwelling unit no later than 100 days after the initial payment or assistance.
(12) Performance of an evaluation or lead-based paint hazard reduction or lead-based paint abatement on an exterior painted surface as required under
this part may be delayed for a reasonable time during a period when weather conditions are unsuitable for conventional construction activities.
(13) Where abatement of lead-based paint hazards or lead-based paint is required by this part and the property is listed or has been determined to be eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or contributing to a National Register Historic District, the designated party may, if requested by the State Historic Preservation Office, conduct interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330 instead of abatement. If interim controls are conducted, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation shall be conducted as required by the applicable subpart of this part in accordance with § 35.1355.
(b) For the purposes of subpart C of this part, each Federal agency other than HUD will determine whether appropriations are sufficient to implement this rule. If appropriations are not sufficient, subpart C of this part shall not apply to that Federal agency. If appropriations are sufficient, subpart C of this part shall apply.
§ 35.120
Options.
(a)
Standard treatments.
Where interim controls are required by this part, the designated party has the option to presume that lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards or both are present throughout the residential property. In such a case, evaluation is not required. Standard treatments shall then be conducted in accordance with § 35.1335 on all applicable surfaces, including soil. Standard treatments are completed only when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.
(b)
Abatement.
Where abatement is required by this part, the designated party may presume that lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards or both are present throughout the residential property. In such a case, evaluation is not required. Abatement shall then be conducted on all applicable surfaces, including soil, in accordance with § 35.1325, and completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340. This option is not available in public housing, where inspection is required.
(c)
Lead hazard screen.
Where a risk assessment is required, the designated party may choose first to conduct a lead hazard screen in accordance with § 35.1320(b). If the results of the lead hazard screen indicate the need for a full risk assessment (e.g., if the environmental measurements exceed levels established for lead hazard screens in § 35.1320(b)(2)), a complete risk assessment shall be conducted. Environmental samples collected for the lead hazard screen may be used in the risk assessment. If the results of the lead hazard screen do not indicate the need for a follow-up risk assessment, a risk assessment is not required.
(d)
Paint testing.
Where paint stabilization or interim controls of deteriorated paint surfaces are required by this rule, the designated party has the option to conduct paint testing of all surfaces with non-intact paint. If paint testing indicates the absence of lead-based paint on a specific surface, paint stabilization or interim controls are not required on that surface.
§ 35.125
Notice of evaluation and hazard reduction activities.
The following activities shall be conducted if notice is required by subparts D and F through M of this part.
(a)
Notice of evaluation or presumption.
When evaluation is undertaken and lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards are found to be present, or if a presumption is made that lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards are present in accordance with the options described in § 35.120, the designated party shall provide a notice to occupants within 15 calendar days of the date when the designated party receives the report or makes the presumption. A visual assessment alone is not considered an evaluation for the purposes of this part. If only a visual assessment alone is required by this part, and no evaluation is performed, a notice of evaluation or presumption is not required.
(1) The notice of the evaluation shall include:
(i) A summary of the nature, dates, scope, and results of the evaluation;
(ii) A contact name, address and telephone number for more information,
and to obtain access to the actual evaluation report; and
(iii) The date of the notice.
(2) The notice of presumption shall include:
(i) The nature and scope of the presumption;
(ii) A contact name, address and telephone number for more information; and
(iii) The date of the notice.
(b)
Notice of hazard reduction activity.
When hazard reduction activities are undertaken, each designated party shall:
(1) Provide a notice to occupants not more than 15 calendar days after the hazard reduction activities (including paint stabilization) have been completed. Notice of hazard reduction shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) A summary of the nature, dates, scope, and results (including clearance) of the hazard reduction activities;
(ii) A contact name, address, and telephone number for more information;
(iii) Available information on the location of any remaining lead-based paint in the rooms, spaces, or areas where hazard reduction activities were conducted, on a surface-by-surface basis; and
(iv) The date of the notice.
(2) Update the notice, based on reevaluation of the residential property and as any additional hazard reduction work is conducted.
(3) Provision of a notice of hazard reduction is not required if a clearance examination is not required.
(c)
Availability of notices of evaluation, presumption, and hazard reduction activities.
(1) The notices of evaluation, presumption, and hazard reduction shall be of a size and type that is easily read by occupants.
(2) To the extent practicable, each notice shall be made available, upon request, in a format accessible to persons with disabilities (e.g., Braille, large type, computer disk, audio tape).
(3) Each notice shall be provided in the occupants' primary language or in the language of the occupants' contract or lease.
(4) The designated party shall provide each notice to the occupants by:
(i) Posting and maintaining it in centrally located common areas and distributing it to any dwelling unit if necessary because the head of household is a person with a known disability; or
(ii) Distributing it to each occupied dwelling unit affected by the evaluation, presumption, or hazard reduction activity or serviced by common areas in which an evaluation, presumption or hazard reduction has taken place.
(iii) However, for the protection of the privacy of the child and the child's family or guardians, no notice of environmental investigation shall be posted to any centrally located common area.
[64 FR 50202, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34271, June 21, 2004; 82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.130
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
If provision of a lead hazard information pamphlet is required in subparts D and F through M of this part, the designated party shall provide to each occupied dwelling unit to which subparts D and F through M of this part apply, the lead hazard information pamphlet developed by EPA, HUD and the Consumer Product Safety Commission pursuant to section 406 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2686), or an EPA-approved alternative; except that the designated party need not provide a lead hazard information pamphlet if the designated party can demonstrate that the pamphlet has already been provided in accordance with the lead-based paint notification and disclosure requirements at § 35.88(a)(1), or 40 CFR 745.107(a)(1) or in accordance with the requirements for hazard education before renovation at 40 CFR part 745, subpart E.
§ 35.135
Use of paint containing lead.
(a)
New use prohibition.
The use of paint containing more than 0.06 percent dry weight of lead on any interior or exterior surface in federally owned housing or housing receiving Federal assistance is prohibited. As appropriate, each Federal agency shall include the prohibition in contracts,
grants, cooperative agreements, insurance agreements, guaranty agreements, trust agreements, or other similar documents.
(b)
Pre-1978 prohibition.
In the case of a jurisdiction which banned the sale or residential use of lead-containing paint before 1978, HUD may designate an earlier date for certain provisions of subparts D and F through M of this part.
§ 35.140
Prohibited methods of paint removal.
The following methods shall not be used to remove paint that is, or may be, lead-based paint:
(a) Open flame burning or torching.
(b) Machine sanding or grinding without a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) local exhaust control.
(c) Abrasive blasting or sandblasting without HEPA local exhaust control.
(d) Heat guns operating above 1100 degrees Fahrenheit or charring the paint.
(e) Dry sanding or dry scraping, except dry scraping in conjunction with heat guns or within 1.0 ft. (0.30 m.) of electrical outlets, or when treating defective paint spots totaling no more than 2 sq. ft. (0.2 sq. m.) in any one interior room or space, or totaling no more than 20 sq. ft. (2.0 sq. m.) on exterior surfaces.
(f) Paint stripping in a poorly ventilated space using a volatile stripper that is a hazardous substance in accordance with regulations of the Consumer Product Safety Commission at 16 CFR 1500.3, and/or a hazardous chemical in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations at 29 CFR 1910.1200 or 1926.59, as applicable to the work.
§ 35.145
Compliance with Federal laws and authorities.
All lead-based paint activities, including waste disposal, performed under this part shall be performed in accordance with applicable Federal laws and authorities. For example, such activities are subject to the applicable environmental review requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
), the Toxic Substances Control Act, Title IV (15 U.S.C. 2860
et seq.
), and other environmental laws and authorities (see, e.g., laws and authorities listed in § 50.4 of this title).
§ 35.150
Compliance with other State, tribal, and local laws.
(a)
HUD responsibility.
If HUD determines that a State, tribal or local law, ordinance, code or regulation provides for evaluation or hazard reduction in a manner that provides a comparable level of protection from the hazards of lead-based paint poisoning to that provided by the requirements of subparts B, C, D, F through M and R of this part and that adherence to the requirements of subparts B, C, D, F through M, and R of this part, would be duplicative or otherwise cause inefficiencies, HUD may modify or waive some or all of the requirements of the subparts in a manner that will promote efficiency while ensuring a comparable level of protection.
(b)
Participant responsibility.
Nothing in this part is intended to relieve any participant in a program covered by this subpart of any responsibility for compliance with State, tribal or local laws, ordinances, codes or regulations governing evaluation and hazard reduction. If a State, tribal or local law, ordinance, code or regulation defines lead-based paint differently than the Federal definition, the more protective definition (i.e., the lower level) shall be followed in that State, tribal or local jurisdiction.
§ 35.155
Minimum requirements.
(a) Nothing in subparts B, C, D, F through M, and R of this part is intended to preclude a designated party or owner from conducting additional evaluation or hazard reduction measures beyond the minimum requirements established for each program in this regulation. For example, if the applicable subpart requires visual assessment, the designated party may choose to perform a risk assessment in accordance with § 35.1320. Similarly, if the applicable subpart requires interim controls, a designated party or owner may choose to implement abatement in accordance with § 35.1325.
(b) To the extent that assistance from any of the programs covered by subparts B, C, D, and F through M of this part is used in conjunction with
other HUD program assistance, the most protective requirements prevail.
[64 FR 50202, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.160
Waivers.
In accordance with § 5.110 of this title, on a case-by-case basis and upon determination of good cause, HUD may, subject to statutory limitations, waive any provision of subparts B, C, D, F through M, and R of this part.
§ 35.165
Prior evaluation or hazard reduction.
If an evaluation or hazard reduction was conducted at a residential property or dwelling unit before the property or dwelling unit became subject to the requirements of subparts B, C, D, F through M, and R of this part, such an evaluation, hazard reduction or abatement meets the requirements of subparts B, C, D, F through M, and R of this part and need not be repeated under the following conditions:
(a)
Lead-based paint inspection.
(1) A lead-based paint inspection conducted before March 1, 2000, meets the requirements of this part if:
(i) At the time of the inspection the lead-based paint inspector was approved by a State or Indian tribe to perform lead-based paint inspections. It is not necessary that the State or tribal approval program had EPA authorization at the time of the inspection.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the inspection was conducted and accepted as valid by a housing agency in fulfillment of the lead-based paint inspection requirement of the public and Indian housing program.
(2) A lead-based paint inspection conducted on or after March 1, 2000, must have been conducted by a certified lead-based paint inspector.
(b)
Risk assessment.
(1) A risk assessment must be no more than 12 months old to be considered current.
(2) A risk assessment conducted before March 1, 2000, meets the requirements of this part if, at the time of the risk assessment, the risk assessor was approved by a state or Indian Tribe to perform risk assessments. It is not necessary that the state or tribal approval program had EPA authorization at the time of the risk assessment.
(3) A risk assessment conducted on or after March 1, 2000, must have been conducted by a certified risk assessor.
(4) Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply in a case where a risk assessment is required in response to the identification of a child with an elevated blood lead level. In such a case, the requirements in the applicable subpart for responding to a child with an elevated blood lead level shall apply.
(c)
Interim controls.
If a residential property is under a program of interim controls and ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities established pursuant to a risk assessment conducted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the interim controls that have been conducted meet the requirements of this part if clearance was achieved after such controls were implemented. In such a case, the program of interim controls and ongoing activities shall be continued in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(d)
Abatement.
(1) An abatement conducted before March 1, 2000, meets the requirements of this part if:
(i) At the time of the abatement the abatement supervisor was approved by a State or Indian tribe to perform lead-based paint abatement. It is not necessary that the State or tribal approval program had EPA authorization at the time of the abatement.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, it was conducted and accepted by a housing agency in fulfillment of the lead-based paint abatement requirement of the public housing program or by an Indian housing authority (as formerly defined under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937) in fulfillment of the lead-based paint requirement of the Indian housing program formerly funded under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937.
(2) An abatement conducted on or after March 1, 2000, must have been conducted under the supervision of a certified lead-based paint abatement supervisor.
[64 FR 50202, Sept. 15, 1999; 65 FR 3387, Jan. 21, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 34272, June 21, 2004; 82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.170
Noncompliance with the requirements of subparts B through R of this part.
(a)
Monitoring and enforcement.
A designated party who fails to comply with any requirement of subparts B, C, D, F through M, and R of this part shall be subject to the sanctions available under the relevant Federal housing assistance or ownership program and may be subject to other penalties authorized by law.
(b) A property owner who informs a potential purchaser or occupant of lead-based paint or possible lead-based paint hazards in a residential property or dwelling unit, in accordance with subpart A of this part, is not relieved of the requirements to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards in accordance with subparts B through R of this part as applicable.
§ 35.175
Records.
The designated party, as specified in subparts C, D, and F through M of this part, shall keep a copy of each notice, evaluation, and clearance or abatement report required by subparts C, D, and F through M of this part for at least three years. Those records applicable to a portion of a residential property for which ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and/or reevaluation activities are required shall be kept and made available for the Department's review, until at least three years after such activities are no longer required.

# Subpart C—Disposition of Residential Property Owned by a Federal Agency Other Than HUD

# Source:
64 FR 50208, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.200
Purpose and applicability.
The purpose of this subpart C is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards prior to the sale of a residential property that is owned by a Federal agency other than HUD. The requirements of this subpart apply to any residential property offered for sale on or after September 15, 2000.
§ 35.205
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.210
Disposition of residential property constructed before 1960.
(a)
Evaluation.
The Federal agency shall conduct a risk assessment and a lead-based paint inspection in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227 before the closing of the sale.
(b)
Abatement of lead-based paint hazards.
The risk assessment used for the identification of hazards to be abated shall have been performed no more than 12 months before the beginning of the abatement. The Federal agency shall abate all identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227. Abatement is completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227. Where abatement of lead-based paint hazards is not completed before the closing of the sale, the Federal agency shall be responsible for assuring that abatement is carried out by the purchaser before occupancy of the property as target housing and in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227.
§ 35.215
Disposition of residential property constructed after 1959 and before 1978.
The Federal agency shall conduct a risk assessment and a lead-based paint inspection in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227. Evaluation shall be completed before closing of the sale according to a schedule determined by the Federal agency. The results of the risk assessment and lead-based paint inspection shall be made available to prospective purchasers as required in subpart A of this part.

# Subpart D—Project-Based Assistance Provided by a Federal Agency Other Than HUD

# Source:
64 FR 50209, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.300
Purpose and applicability.
The purpose of this subpart D is to establish procedures to eliminate as far
as practicable lead-based paint hazards in a residential property that receives more than $5,000 annually per project in project-based assistance on or after September 15, 2000, under a program administered by a Federal agency other than HUD.
§ 35.305
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.310
Notices and pamphlet.
(a)
Notice.
A notice of evaluation or hazard reduction shall be provided to the occupants in accordance with § 35.125.
(b)
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
The owner shall provide the lead hazard information pamphlet in accordance with § 35.130.
§ 35.315
Risk assessment.
Each owner shall complete a risk assessment in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(d). Each risk assessment shall be completed in accordance with the schedule established by the Federal agency.
§ 35.320
Hazard reduction.
Each owner shall conduct interim controls consistent with the findings of the risk assessment report. Hazard reduction shall be conducted in accordance with subpart R of this part.
§ 35.325
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
(a) If a child less than 6 years of age living in a federally assisted dwelling unit has an elevated blood lead level, the owner shall immediately conduct an environmental investigation. Interim controls of identified lead-based paint hazards shall be conducted in accordance with § 35.1330.
(b)
Other assisted dwelling units in the property.
(1) If the environmental investigation conducted under paragraph (a) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, the owner shall conduct a risk assessment for other assisted dwelling units covered by this subpart in which a child under age 6 resides or is expected to reside on the date interim controls are complete, and for the common areas servicing those units. The risk assessments shall be conducted within 30 calendar days after receipt of the environmental investigation report on the index unit if there are 20 or fewer such units, or 60 calendar days for risk assessments if there are more than 20 such units. If the risk assessment identifies lead-based paint hazards, the owner shall control identified hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330 in those units and common areas within 30 calendar days, or within 90 calendar days if more than 20 units have lead-based paint hazards such that the control work would disturb painted surfaces that total more than the de minimis threshold of § 35.1350(d).
(2) The requirements for other assisted dwelling units covered by paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply if:
(i) The owner both conducted a risk assessment of the other assisted dwelling units covered by paragraph (b)(1), and the common areas servicing those units, and conducted reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330 between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date the owner received the notification of the elevated blood lead level; or
(ii) The owner provides the Federal agency documentation of compliance with evaluation, notification, lead disclosure, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance, and lead-based paint management requirements under this part throughout the 12 months preceding the date the owner received the environmental investigation report.
(c) Interim controls are complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.
(d) The Federal agency shall establish a timetable for completing, and providing documentation to the agency on the environmental investigation, risk assessments, and lead-based paint hazard reduction when a child is identified as having an elevated blood lead level.
[82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—HUD-Owned Single Family Property

# Source:
64 FR 50209, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.500
Purpose and applicability.
The purpose of this subpart F is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in HUD-owned single family properties that have been built before 1978 and are sold with mortgages insured under a program administered by HUD. The requirements of this subpart apply to any such residential properties offered for sale on or after September 15, 2000.
§ 35.505
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.510
Required procedures.
(a) The following activities shall be conducted for all properties to which this subpart is applicable:
(1) A visual assessment of all painted surfaces in order to identify deteriorated paint;
(2) Paint stabilization of all deteriorated paint in accordance with § 35.1330(a) and (b); and
(3) Clearance in accordance with § 35.1340.
(b) Occupancy shall not be permitted until all required paint stabilization is complete and clearance is achieved.
(c) If paint stabilization and clearance are not completed before the closing of the sale, the Department shall assure that paint stabilization and clearance are carried out pursuant to subpart R of this part by the purchaser before occupancy.

# Subpart G—Multifamily Mortgage Insurance

# Source:
64 FR 50209, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.600
Purpose and applicability.
The purpose of this subpart G is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in a multifamily residential property for which HUD is the owner of the mortgage or the owner receives mortgage insurance, under a program administered by HUD.
§ 35.605
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.610
Exemption.
An application for insurance in connection with a refinancing transaction where an appraisal is not required under the applicable procedures established by HUD is excluded from the coverage of this subpart.
§ 35.615
Notices and pamphlet.
(a)
Notice.
If evaluation or hazard reduction is undertaken, the sponsor shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with § 35.125. A visual assessment alone is not considered an evaluation for the purposes of this part.
(b)
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
The sponsor shall provide the lead hazard information pamphlet in accordance with § 35.130.
[64 FR 50209, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34272, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.620
Multifamily insured property constructed before 1960.
Except as provided in § 35.630, the following requirements apply to multifamily insured property constructed before 1960:
(a)
Risk assessment.
Before the issuance of a firm commitment the sponsor shall conduct a risk assessment in accordance with § 35.1320(b).
(b)
Interim controls.
(1) The sponsor shall conduct interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330 to treat the lead-based paint hazards identified in the risk assessment. Interim controls are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.
(2) The sponsor shall complete interim controls before the issuance of the firm commitment or interim controls may be made a condition of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) firm commitment, with sufficient repair or rehabilitation funds escrowed
at initial endorsement of the FHA insured loan.
(c)
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities.
Before the issuance of the firm commitment, the sponsor shall agree to incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance into regular building operations and maintenance activities in accordance with § 35.1355(a).
§ 35.625
Multifamily insured property constructed after 1959 and before 1978.
Except as provided in § 35.630, before the issuance of the firm commitment, the sponsor shall agree to incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance practices into regular building operations, in accordance with § 35.1355(a).
§ 35.630
Conversions and major rehabilitations.
The procedures and requirements of this section apply when a nonresidential property constructed before 1978 is to be converted to residential use, or a residential property constructed before 1978 is to undergo rehabilitation that is estimated to cost more than 50 percent of the estimated replacement cost after rehabilitation.
(a)
Lead-based paint inspection.
Before issuance of a firm FHA commitment, the sponsor shall conduct a lead-based paint inspection in accordance with § 35.1320(a).
(b)
Abatement.
Prior to occupancy, the sponsor shall conduct abatement of all lead-based paint on the property in accordance with § 35.1325. Whenever practicable, abatement shall be achieved through the methods of paint removal or component replacement. If paint removal or component replacement are not practicable, that is if such methods would damage substrate material considered architecturally significant, permanent encapsulation or enclosure may be used as methods of abatement. Abatement is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340. If encapsulation or enclosure is used, the sponsor shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance into regular building operations maintenance activities in accordance with § 35.1355.
(c)
Historic properties.
Section 35.115(a)(13) applies to this section.

# Subpart H—Project-Based Assistance

# Source:
64 FR 50210, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.700
Purpose and applicability.
(a) This subpart H establishes procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in residential properties receiving project-based assistance under a HUD program. The requirements of this subpart apply only to the assisted dwelling units in a covered property and any common areas servicing those dwelling units. This subpart does not apply to housing receiving rehabilitation assistance or to public housing, which are covered by subparts J and M of this part, respectively.
(b) For the purposes of competitively awarded grants under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (HOPWA), the Supportive Housing Program (42 U.S.C. 11381-11389) and the Shelter Plus Care Program project-based rental assistance and sponsor-based rental assistance components (42 U.S.C. 11402-11407), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to grants awarded pursuant to Notices of Funding Availability published on or after October 1, 1999. For the purposes of formula grants awarded under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (HOPWA) (42 U.S.C. 12901
et seq.
), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which program funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000.
§ 35.705
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.710
Notices and pamphlet.
(a)
Notice.
If evaluation or hazard reduction is undertaken, each owner shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with § 35.125. A visual assessment alone is not considered an evaluation for the purposes of this part.
(b)
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
The owner shall provide the lead hazard information pamphlet in accordance with § 35.130.
[64 FR 50210, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34272, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.715
Multifamily properties receiving more than $5,000 per unit.
The requirements of this section shall apply to a multifamily residential property that is receiving an average of more than $5,000 per assisted dwelling unit annually in project-based assistance.
(a)
Risk assessment.
Each owner shall complete a risk assessment in accordance with § 35.1320(b). A risk assessment is considered complete when the owner receives the risk assessment report. Until the owner conducts a risk assessment as required by this section, the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section shall apply. After the risk assessment has been conducted the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall apply. Each risk assessment shall be completed no later than the following schedule or a schedule otherwise determined by HUD:
(1) Risk assessments shall be completed on or before September 17, 2001, in a multifamily residential property constructed before 1960.
(2) Risk assessments shall be completed on or before September 15, 2003, in a multifamily residential property constructed after 1959 and before 1978.
(b)
Interim controls.
Each owner shall conduct interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330 to treat the lead-based paint hazards identified in the risk assessment. Interim controls are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340. Interim controls shall be completed no later than the following schedule:
(1) In units occupied by families with children of less than 6 years of age and in common areas servicing those units, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the completion of the risk assessment. In units in which a child of less than 6 years of age moves in after the completion of the risk assessment, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the move-in.
(2) In all other dwelling units, common areas, and the remaining portions of the residential property, interim controls shall be completed no later than 12 months after completion of the risk assessment for those units.
(c)
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities.
Effective immediately after completion of the risk assessment required in § 35.715(a), the owner shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation into the regular building operations in accordance with § 35.1355, unless all lead-based paint has been removed. If the reevaluation identifies new lead-based paint hazards, the owner shall conduct interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330.
(d)
Transitional requirements
—(1)
Effective date.
The requirements of this paragraph shall apply effective September 15, 2000, and continuing until the applicable date specified in § 35.715(a) (1) or (2) or until the owner conducts a risk assessment, whichever is first.
(2) Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this paragraph are found in subpart B of this part.
(3)
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance.
The owner shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities into regular building operations, in accordance with § 35.1355(a), except that clearance is not required.
(e)
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
If a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this paragraph has an elevated blood lead level, the owner shall comply with the requirements of § 35.730.
[64 FR 50210, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.720
Multifamily properties receiving up to $5,000 per unit, and single family properties.
Effective September 15, 2000, the requirements of this section shall apply to a multifamily residential property that is receiving an average of up to and including $5,000 per assisted dwelling unit annually in project-based assistance and to a single family residential property that is receiving project-based assistance through the Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation program, the
Project-Based Certificate program, or any other HUD program providing project-based assistance.
(a)
Activities at initial and periodic inspection
—(1)
Visual assessment.
During the initial and periodic inspections, an inspector trained in visual assessment for deteriorated paint surfaces in accordance with procedures established by HUD shall conduct a visual assessment of all painted surfaces in order to identify any deteriorated paint.
(2)
Paint stabilization.
The owner shall stabilize each deteriorated paint surface in accordance with § 35.1330(a) and § 35.1330(b) before occupancy of a vacant dwelling unit or, where a unit is occupied, within 30 days of notification of the results of the visual assessment. Paint stabilization is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.
(3)
Notice.
The owner shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with §§ 35.125(b) (1) and (c) describing the results of the clearance examination.
(b)
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities.
The owner shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities into regular building operations in accordance with § 35.1355(a), unless all lead-based paint has been removed.
(c)
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
If a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this section has an elevated blood lead level, the owner shall comply with the requirements of § 35.730.
[64 FR 50210, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.725
Section 8 Rent adjustments.
HUD may, subject to the availability of appropriations for Section 8 contract amendments, on a project by project basis for projects receiving Section 8 project-based assistance, provide adjustments to the maximum monthly rents to cover the costs of evaluation for and reduction of lead-based paint hazards, as defined in section 1004 of the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992.
§ 35.730
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
(a)
Environmental investigation.
Within 15 calendar days after being notified by a public health department or other medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit to which this subpart applies has been identified as having an elevated blood lead level, the owner shall complete an environmental investigation of the dwelling unit in which the child lived at the time the blood was last sampled and of common areas servicing the dwelling unit. The requirements of this paragraph apply regardless of whether the child is or is not still living in the unit when the owner receives the notification of the elevated blood lead level. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply if the owner conducted an environmental investigation of the unit and common areas servicing the unit between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date when the owner received the notification of the elevated blood lead level. If the owner conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit during that period, the owner need not conduct another risk assessment there but shall conduct the elements of an environmental investigation not already conducted during the risk assessment. If a public health department has already conducted an evaluation of the dwelling unit in regard to the child's elevated blood lead level case, the requirements of this paragraph shall not apply.
(b)
Verification.
After receiving information from a person who is not a medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this subpart may have an elevated blood lead level, the owner shall immediately verify the information with the public health department or other medical health care provider. If the public health department or provider denies the request, such as because it does not have the capacity to verify that information, the owner shall send documentation of the denial to the HUD rental assistance program manager, who shall make an effort to verify the information. If the public health department or provider verifies that the child has an elevated blood lead level, such verification shall constitute notification, and the owner shall take the
action required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
(c)
Lead-based paint hazard reduction.
Within 30 calendar days after receiving the report of the environmental investigation conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or the evaluation from the public health department, the owner shall complete the reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330. Lead-based paint hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the environmental investigation have been treated with interim controls or abatement or the public health department certifies that the lead-based paint hazard reduction is complete. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply if the owner, between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date the owner received the notification of the elevated blood lead level, already conducted an environmental investigation of the unit and common areas servicing the unit and completed reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards. If the owner conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit during that period, the owner is not required to conduct another risk assessment there but shall conduct the elements of an environmental investigation not already conducted during the risk assessment.
(d) If an environmental investigation or lead-based paint hazard evaluation or reduction is undertaken, each owner shall provide notice to occupants in accordance with § 35.125.
(e)
Reporting requirement.
(1) The owner shall report the name and address of a child identified as having an elevated blood lead level to the public health department within 5 business days of being so notified by any other medical health care professional.
(2) The owner shall also report each confirmed case of a child with an elevated blood lead level to the HUD field office and HUD Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes within 5 business days of being so notified.
(3) The owner shall provide to the HUD field office documentation that the designated party has conducted the activities of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, within 10 business days of the deadline for each activity.
(f)
Other assisted dwelling units in the property.
(1) If the environmental investigation conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, the owner shall, for other assisted dwelling units covered by this part in which a child under age 6 resides or is expected to reside on the date lead-based paint hazard reduction under paragraph (c) of this section is complete, and for the common areas servicing those units, conduct a risk assessment within 30 calendar days after receipt of the environmental investigation report if there are 20 or fewer such other units, or 60 calendar days if there are more than 20 such other units.
(2)
Control measures.
If the risk assessment conducted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, the owner shall complete the reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330 in those units and common areas within 30 calendar days, or within 90 calendar days if more than 20 units have lead-based paint hazards such that the control work would disturb painted surfaces that total more than the de minimis threshold of § 35.1350(d). Lead-based paint hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the risk assessment have been treated with interim controls or abatement.
(3) The owner shall provide to the HUD field office documentation that the designated party has conducted the activities of paragraph (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section, within 10 business days of the deadline for each activity.
(4) The requirements of this paragraph (f) do not apply if:
(i) The owner both conducted a risk assessment of the other assisted dwelling units covered by paragraph (f)(1) of this section and the common areas servicing those units, and conducted reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330 between the date the child's
blood was last sampled and the date the owner received the notification of the elevated blood lead level; or
(ii) The owner has documentation of compliance with evaluation, notification, lead disclosure, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance, and lead-based paint management requirements under this part throughout the 12 months preceding the date the owner received the environmental investigation report pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(iii) In either case, the owner provides to the HUD field office documentation that it has conducted the activities of paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, within 10 business days of the deadline for each activity.
[82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]

# Subpart I—HUD-Owned and Mortgagee-in-Possession Multifamily Property

# Source:
64 FR 50211, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.800
Purpose and applicability.
The purpose of this subpart I is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in a HUD-owned multifamily residential property or a multifamily residential property for which HUD is identified as mortgagee-in-possession. The requirements of this subpart apply to any such property that is offered for sale or held or managed on or after September 15, 2000.
§ 35.805
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.810
Notices and pamphlet.
(a)
Notices.
When evaluation or hazard reduction is undertaken, the Department shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with § 35.125. A visual assessment alone is not considered an evaluation for the purposes of this part.
(b)
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
HUD shall provide the lead hazard information pamphlet in accordance with § 35.130.
[64 FR 50211, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34272, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.815
Evaluation.
HUD shall conduct a risk assessment and a lead-based paint inspection in accordance with § 35.1320(a) and (b). For properties to which this subpart applies on September 15, 2000, the lead-based paint inspection and risk assessment shall be conducted no later than December 15, 2000, or before publicly advertising the property for sale, whichever is sooner. For properties to which this subpart becomes applicable after September 15, 2000, the lead-based paint inspection and risk assessment shall be conducted no later than 90 days after this subpart becomes applicable or before publicly advertising the property for sale, whichever is sooner.
§ 35.820
Interim controls.
HUD shall conduct interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330 to treat the lead-based paint hazards identified in the evaluation conducted in accordance with § 35.815. Interim controls are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340. Interim controls of all lead-based paint hazards shall be completed no later than the following schedule:
(a) In units occupied by families with children of less than 6 years of age and in common areas servicing those units, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the completion of the risk assessment. In units in which a child of less than 6 years of age moves in after the completion of the risk assessment, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the move-in.
(b) In all other dwelling units, common areas, and the remaining portions of the residential property, interim controls shall be completed no later than 12 months after completion of the risk assessment for those units.
(c) If conveyance of the title by HUD at a sale of a HUD-owned property or a foreclosure sale caused by HUD when HUD is mortgagee-in-possession occurs before the schedule in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this section, HUD shall complete interim controls before conveyance or foreclosure, or HUD shall be responsible for assuring that interim controls are carried out by the purchaser. If interim controls are made a condition of sale, such controls shall be completed according to the following schedule:
(1) In units occupied by families with children of less than 6 years of age and in common areas servicing those units, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the date of the closing of the sale. In units in which a child of less than 6 years of age moves in after the closing of the sale, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the move-in.
(2) In all other dwelling units, in common areas servicing those units, and in the remaining portions of the residential property, interim controls shall be completed no later than 180 days after the closing of the sale.
§ 35.825
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation.
HUD shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation, in accordance with § 35.1355, into regular building operations if HUD retains ownership of the residential property for more than 12 months.
§ 35.830
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
(a)
Environmental investigation.
Within 15 calendar days after being notified by a public health department or other medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit owned by HUD (or where HUD is mortgagee-in-possession) has been identified as having an elevated blood lead level, HUD shall complete an environmental investigation of the dwelling unit in which the child lived at the time the blood was last sampled and of common areas servicing the dwelling unit. The requirements of this paragraph apply regardless of whether the child is or is not still living in the unit when HUD receives the notification of the elevated blood lead level. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply if HUD conducted an environmental investigation of the unit and common areas servicing the unit between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date when HUD received the notification of the elevated blood lead level. If HUD conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit during that period, HUD is not required to conduct another risk assessment there but it shall conduct the elements of an environmental investigation not already conducted during the risk assessment. If a public health department has already conducted an evaluation of the dwelling unit in regard to the child's elevated blood lead level case, the requirements of this paragraph shall not apply.
(b)
Verification.
After receiving information from a person who is not a medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this subpart may have an elevated blood lead level, HUD shall immediately verify the information with the public health department or other medical health care provider. If the public health department or provider denies the request, such as because it does not have the capacity to verify that information, the HUD Realty Specialist assigned to that property shall send documentation of the denial to the HUD Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes, which shall make an effort to verify the information. If the public health department or provider verifies that the child has an elevated blood lead level, such verification shall constitute notification, and HUD shall take the action required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
(c)
Lead-based paint hazard reduction.
Within 30 calendar days after receiving the report of the environmental investigation conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or the evaluation from the public health department, HUD shall complete the reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330. Lead-based paint hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the environmental investigation have been treated with interim controls or abatement or the
public health department certifies that the lead-based paint hazard reduction is complete. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply if HUD, between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date HUD received the notification of the elevated blood lead level, already conducted an environmental investigation of the unit and common areas servicing the unit and completed reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards. If HUD conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit during that period, it is not required to conduct another risk assessment there but it shall conduct the elements of an environmental investigation not already conducted during the risk assessment.
(d)
Notice.
If lead-based paint hazard evaluation or reduction is undertaken, each owner shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with § 35.125.
(e)
Reporting requirement.
(1) HUD shall report the name and address of a child identified as having an elevated blood lead level to the public health department within 5 business days of being so notified by any other medical health care professional.
(2) HUD shall also report each confirmed case of a child with an elevated blood lead level to the HUD Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes within 5 business days of being so notified.
(3) HUD shall provide to the HUD Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes documentation that it has conducted the activities of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, within 10 business days of the deadline for each activity.
(f)
Other assisted dwelling units in the property.
(1) If the environmental investigation conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, HUD shall, for other assisted dwelling units covered by this part in which a child under age 6 resides or is expected to reside on the date lead-based paint hazard reduction under paragraph (c) of this section, and the common areas servicing those units, is complete, conduct a risk assessment in accordance with § 35.815 within 30 calendar days after receipt of the environmental investigation report if there are 20 or fewer such other units, or 60 calendar days if there are more than 20 such other units.
(2) If the risk assessment conducted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, HUD shall complete the reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330 in those units and common areas within 30 calendar days, or within 90 calendar days if more than 20 units have lead-based paint hazards such that the control work would disturb painted surfaces that total more than the de minimis threshold of § 35.1350(d). Lead-based paint hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the risk assessment have been treated with interim controls or abatement.
(3) The requirements of this paragraph (f) do not apply if:
(i) HUD, between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date HUD received the notification of the elevated blood lead level, both conducted a risk assessment in the other assisted dwelling units covered by paragraph (f)(1) of this section and the common areas servicing those units, and conducted interim controls of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.820; or
(ii) HUD has documentation of compliance with evaluation, notification, lead disclosure, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance, and lead-based paint management requirements under this part throughout the 12 months preceding the date HUD received the environmental investigation report pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(4) HUD shall provide to the HUD Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes documentation that it has conducted the activities of paragraph (f)(1) through (2) of this section, or that it has complied with the requirements in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, within 10 business days of the deadline for each activity.
(g)
Closing.
If the closing of a sale is scheduled during the period when HUD is responding to a case of a child with an elevated blood lead level, HUD may
arrange for the completion of the procedures required by paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section by the purchaser within a reasonable period of time.
(h)
Extensions.
The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner or designee may consider and approve a request for an extension of deadlines established by this section for lead-based paint inspection, risk assessment, environmental investigation, lead-based paint hazard reduction, clearance, and reporting. Such a request may be considered, however, only during the first six months during which HUD is owner or mortgagee-in-possession of a multifamily property.
[82 FR 4168, Jan. 13, 2017]

# Subpart J—Rehabilitation

# Source:
64 FR 50212, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.900
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose and applicability.
(1) The purpose of this subpart J is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in a residential property that receives Federal rehabilitation assistance under a program administered by HUD. Rehabilitation assistance does not include project-based rental assistance, rehabilitation mortgage insurance or assistance to public housing.
(2) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to HOME funds which are committed to a specific project in accordance with § 92.2 of this title before September 15, 2000. Such projects shall be subject to the requirements of § 92.355 of this title that were in effect at the time of project commitment or the requirements of this subpart.
(3) For the purposes of the Indian Housing Block Grant program and the CDBG Entitlement program, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to all residential rehabilitation activities (except those otherwise exempted) for which funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000. For the purposes of the State, HUD-Administered Small Cities, and Insular Areas CDBG programs, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to all covered activities (except those otherwise exempted) for which grant funding is awarded to the unit of local government by the State or HUD, as applicable, on or after September 15, 2000. For the purposes of the Emergency Shelter Grant Program (42 U.S.C. 11371-11378) and the formula grants awarded under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (HOPWA) (42 U.S.C. 12901
et. seq.
), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which program funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000.
(4) For the purposes of competitively awarded grants under the HOPWA Program and the Supportive Housing Program (42 U.S.C. 11481-11389), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to grants awarded under Notices of Funding Availability published on or after September 15, 2000.
(5) For the purposes of the Indian CDBG program (§ 1003.607 of this title), the requirements of this subpart shall not apply to funds whose notice of funding availability is announced or funding letter is sent before September 15, 2000. Such project grantees shall be subject to the regulations in effect at the time of announcement or funding letter.
(b) The grantee or participating jurisdiction may assign to a subrecipient or other entity the responsibilities set forth in this subpart.
§ 35.905
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.910
Notices and pamphlet.
(a)
Notices.
In cases where evaluation or hazard reduction or both are undertaken as part of federally funded rehabilitation, the grantee or participating jurisdiction shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with § 35.125. A visual assessment alone is not considered an evaluation for the purposes of this part.
(b)
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
The grantee or participating jurisdiction shall provide the lead hazard information pamphlet in accordance with § 35.130.
[69 FR 34272, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.915
Calculating Federal rehabilitation assistance.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to recipients of Federal rehabilitation assistance.
(b)
Rehabilitation assistance.
(1) Lead-based paint requirements for rehabilitation fall into three categories that depend on the amount of Federal rehabilitation assistance provided. The three categories are:
(i) Assistance of up to and including $5,000 per unit;
(ii) Assistance of more than $5,000 per unit up to and including $25,000 per unit; and
(iii) Assistance of more than $25,000 per unit.
(2) For purposes of implementing §§ 35.930 and 35.935, the amount of rehabilitation assistance is the lesser of two amounts: the average Federal assistance per assisted dwelling unit and the average per unit hard costs of rehabilitation. Federal assistance includes all Federal funds assisting the project, regardless of the use of the funds. Federal funds being used for acquisition of the property are to be included as well as funds for construction, permits, fees, and other project costs. The hard costs of rehabilitation include all hard costs, regardless of source, except that the costs of lead-based paint hazard evaluation and hazard reduction activities are not to be included. Costs of site preparation, occupant protection, relocation, interim controls, abatement, clearance, and waste handling attributable to compliance with the requirements of this part are not to be included in the hard costs of rehabilitation. All other hard costs are to be included, regardless of whether the source of funds is Federal or non-Federal, public or private.
(c)
Calculating rehabilitation assistance in properties with both assisted and unassisted dwelling units.
For a residential property that includes both federally assisted and non-assisted units, the rehabilitation costs and Federal assistance associated with non-assisted units are not included in the calculations of the average per unit hard costs of rehabilitation and the average Federal assistance per unit.
(1) The average per unit hard costs of rehabilitation for the assisted units is calculated using the following formula:
Per Unit Hard Costs of Rehabilitation $ = (a/c) + (b/d)
Where:
a = Rehabilitation hard costs for all assisted units (not including common areas and exterior surfaces)
b = Rehabilitation hard costs for common areas and exterior painted surfaces
c = Number of federally assisted units
d = Total number of units
(2) The average Federal assistance per assisted dwelling unit is calculated using the following formula:
Per unit Federal assistance = e/c
Where:
e = Total Federal assistance for the project
c = Number of federally assisted units
[69 FR 34272, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.920
[Reserved]
§ 35.925
Examples of determining applicable requirements.
The following examples illustrate how to determine whether the requirements of §§ 35.930(b), (c), or (d) apply to a dwelling unit receiving Federal rehabilitation assistance (dollar amounts are on a per unit basis):
(a) If the total amount of Federal assistance for a dwelling is $2,000, and the hard costs of rehabilitation are $10,000, the lead-based paint requirements would be those described in § 35.930(b), because Federal rehabilitation assistance is up to and including $5,000.
(b) If the total amount of Federal assistance for a dwelling unit is $6,000, and the hard costs of rehabilitation are $2,000, the lead-based paint requirements would be those described in § 35.930(b). Although the total amount of Federal dollars is more than $5,000, only the $2,000 of that total can be applied to rehabilitation. Therefore, the Federal rehabilitation assistance is $2,000 which is not more than $5,000.
(c) If the total amount of Federal assistance for a unit is $6,000, and the hard costs of rehabilitation are $6,000, the lead-based paint requirements are those described in § 35.930(c), because the amount of Federal rehabilitation assistance is more than $5,000 but not more than $25,000.
(d) If eight dwelling units in a residential property receive Federal rehabilitation assistance [symbol c in § 35.915(c)(2)] out of a total of 10 dwelling units [d], the total Federal assistance for the rehabilitation project is $300,000 [e], the total hard costs of rehabilitation for the dwelling units are $160,000 [a], and the total hard costs of rehabilitation for the common areas and exterior surfaces are $20,000 [b], then the lead-based paint requirements would be those described in § 35.930(c), because the level of Federal rehabilitation assistance is $22,000, which is not greater than $25,000. This is calculated as follows: The total Federal assistance per assisted unit is $37,500 (e/c = $300,000/8), the per unit hard costs of rehabilitation is $22,000 (a/c + b/d = $160,000/8 + $20,000/10), and the level of Federal rehabilitation assistance is the lesser of $37,500 and $22,000.
[64 FR 50212, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34272, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.930
Evaluation and hazard reduction requirements.
(a)
Paint testing.
The grantee or participating jurisdiction shall either perform paint testing on the painted surfaces to be disturbed or replaced during rehabilitation activities, or presume that all these painted surfaces are coated with lead-based paint.
(b)
Residential property receiving an average of up to and including $5,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.
Each grantee or participating jurisdiction shall:
(1) Conduct paint testing or presume the presence of lead-based paint, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If paint testing indicates that the painted surfaces are not coated with lead-based paint, safe work practices and clearance are not required.
(2) Implement safe work practices during rehabilitation work in accordance with § 35.1350 and repair any paint that is disturbed.
(3) After completion of any rehabilitation disturbing painted surfaces, perform a clearance examination of the worksite(s) in accordance with § 35.1340. Clearance is not required if rehabilitation did not disturb painted surfaces of a total area more than that set forth in § 35.1350(d).
(c)
Residential property receiving an average of more than $5,000 and up to and including $25,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.
Each grantee or participating jurisdiction shall:
(1) Conduct paint testing or presume the presence of lead-based paint, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) Perform a risk assessment in the dwelling units receiving Federal assistance, in common areas servicing those units, and exterior painted surfaces, in accordance with § 35.1320(b), before rehabilitation begins.
(3) Perform interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330 of all lead-based paint hazards identified pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
(4) Implement safe work practices during rehabilitation work in accordance with § 35.1350 and repair any paint that is disturbed and is known or presumed to be lead-based paint.
(d)
Residential property receiving an average of more than $25,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.
Each grantee or participating jurisdiction shall:
(1) Conduct paint testing or presume the presence of lead-based paint in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) Perform a risk assessment in the dwelling units receiving Federal assistance and in associated common areas and exterior painted surfaces in accordance with § 35.1320(b) before rehabilitation begins.
(3) Abate all lead-based paint hazards identified by the paint testing or risk assessment conducted pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, in accordance with § 35.1325, except that interim controls are acceptable on exterior surfaces that are not disturbed by rehabilitation and on paint-lead hazards that have an area smaller than the
de minimis
limits of § 35.1350(d). If abatement of a paint-lead hazard is required, it is necessary to abate only the surface area with hazardous conditions.
(4) Implement safe work practices during rehabilitation work in accordance with § 35.1350 and repair any paint
that is disturbed and is known or presumed to be lead-based paint.
[64 FR 50214, Sept. 15, 1999; 65 FR 3387, Jan. 21, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.935
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities.
In the case of a rental property receiving Federal rehabilitation assistance under the HOME program, the grantee or participating jurisdiction shall require the property owner to incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities in regular building operations, in accordance with § 35.1355(a).
[69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.940
Special requirements for insular areas.
If a dwelling unit receiving Federal assistance under a program covered by this subpart is located in an insular area, the requirements of this section shall apply and the requirements of § 35.930 shall not apply. All other sections of this subpart J shall apply. The insular area shall conduct the following activities for the dwelling unit, common areas servicing the dwelling unit, and the exterior surfaces of the building in which the dwelling unit is located:
(a)
Residential property receiving an average of up to and including $5,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.
(1) Implement safe work practices during rehabilitation work in accordance with § 35.1350 and repair any paint that is disturbed by rehabilitation.
(2) After completion of any rehabilitation disturbing painted surfaces, perform a clearance examination of the worksite(s) in accordance with § 35.1340. Clearance shall be achieved before residents are allowed to occupy the worksite(s). Clearance is not required if rehabilitation did not disturb painted surfaces of a total area more than that set forth in § 35.1350(b).
(b)
Residential property receiving an average of more than $5,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.
(1) Before beginning rehabilitation, perform a visual assessment of all painted surfaces in order to identify deteriorated paint.
(2) Perform paint stabilization of each deteriorated paint surface and each painted surface being disturbed by rehabilitation, in accordance with §§ 35.1330(a) and (b).
(3) After completion of all paint stabilization, perform a clearance examination of the affected dwelling units and common areas in accordance with § 35.1340. Clearance shall be achieved before residents are allowed to occupy rooms or spaces in which paint stabilization has been performed.

# Subpart K—Acquisition, Leasing, Support Services, or Operation

# Source:
64 FR 50214, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.1000
Purpose and applicability.
(a) The purpose of this subpart K is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in a residential property that receives Federal assistance under certain HUD programs for acquisition, leasing, support services, or operation. Acquisition, leasing, support services, and operation do not include mortgage insurance, sale of federally-owned housing, project-based or tenant-based rental assistance, rehabilitation assistance, or assistance to public housing. For requirements pertaining to those activities or types of assistance, see the applicable subpart of this part.
(b) The grantee or participating jurisdiction may assign to a subrecipient or other entity the responsibilities set forth in this subpart.
(c)(1) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to HOME funds which are committed to a specific project in accordance with § 92.2 of this title before September 15, 2000. Such projects shall be subject to the requirements of § 92.355 of this title that were in effect at the time of project commitment, or the requirements of this subpart.
(2) For purposes of the CDBG Entitlement program and the Indian Housing Block Grant program, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities (except those otherwise exempted) for which funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000.
For the purposes of the State, HUD-Administered Small Cities, and Insular Areas CDBG programs, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to all covered activities (except those otherwise exempted) for which grant funding is awarded to the unit of local government by the State or HUD, as applicable, on or after September 15, 2000. For the purposes of the Emergency Shelter Grant Program (42 U.S.C. 11371-11378) and the formula grants awarded under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (HOPWA) (42 U.S.C. 12901 et. seq.), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which program funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000.
(3) For the purposes of competitively awarded grants under the HOPWA Program and the Supportive Housing Program (42 U.S.C. 11481-11389), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to grants awarded under Notices of Funding Availability published on or after September 15, 2000.
(4) For the purposes of the Indian CDBG program (§ 1003.607 of this title), the requirements of this subpart shall not apply to funds whose notice of funding availability is announced or funding letter is sent before September 15, 2000. Such project grantees shall be subject to the regulations in effect at the time of announcement or funding letter.
[64 FR 50213, Sept. 15, 1999; 65 FR 3387, Jan. 21, 2000]
§ 35.1005
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.1010
Notices and pamphlet.
(a)
Notice.
In cases where evaluation or hazard reduction, including paint stabilization, is undertaken, each grantee or participating jurisdiction shall provide a notice to residents in accordance with § 35.125. A visual assessment is not considered an evaluation for purposes of this part.
(b)
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
The grantee or participating jurisdiction shall provide the lead hazard information pamphlet in accordance with § 35.130.
§ 35.1015
Visual assessment, paint stabilization, and maintenance.
If a dwelling unit receives Federal assistance under a program covered by this subpart, each grantee or participating jurisdiction shall conduct the following activities for the dwelling unit, common areas servicing the dwelling unit, and the exterior surfaces of the building in which the dwelling unit is located:
(a) A visual assessment of all painted surfaces in order to identify deteriorated paint;
(b) Paint stabilization of each deteriorated paint surface, and clearance, in accordance with §§ 35.1330(a) and (b), before occupancy of a vacant dwelling unit or, where a unit is occupied, immediately after receipt of Federal assistance; and
(c) The grantee or participating jurisdiction shall require the incorporation of ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities into regular building operations, in accordance with § 35.1355(a), if the dwelling unit has a continuing, active financial relationship with a Federal housing assistance program, except that mortgage insurance or loan guarantees are not considered to constitute an active programmatic relationship for the purposes of this part.
(d) The grantee or participating jurisdiction shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with §§ 35.125(b)(1) and (c), describing the results of the clearance examination.
[64 FR 50214, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.1020
Funding for evaluation and hazard reduction.
The grantee or participating jurisdiction shall determine whether the cost of evaluation and hazard reduction is to be borne by the owner/developer, the grantee or a combination of the owner/developer and the grantee, based on program requirements and local program design.

# Subpart L—Public Housing Programs

# Source:
64 FR 50215, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.1100
Purpose and applicability.
The purpose of this subpart L is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in residential property assisted under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437
et seq.
) but not including housing assisted under section 8 of the 1937 Act.
§ 35.1105
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.1110
Notices and pamphlet.
(a)
Notice.
In cases where evaluation or hazard reduction is undertaken, each public housing agency (PHA) shall provide a notice to residents in accordance with § 35.125. A visual assessment alone is not considered an evaluation for purposes of this part.
(b)
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
The PHA shall provide the lead hazard information pamphlet in accordance with § 35.130.
[64 FR 50215, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.1115
Evaluation.
(a) A lead-based paint inspection shall be conducted in all public housing unless a lead-based paint inspection that meets the conditions of § 35.165(a) has already been completed. If a lead-based paint inspection was conducted by a lead-based paint inspector who was not certified, the PHA shall review the quality of the inspection, in accordance with quality control procedures established by HUD, to determine whether the lead-based paint inspection has been properly performed and the results are reliable. Lead-based paint inspections of all housing to which this subpart applies shall be completed no later than September 15, 2000. Revisions or augmentations of prior inspections found to be of insufficient quality shall be completed no later than September 17, 2001.
(b) If a lead-based paint inspection has found the presence of lead-based paint, or if no lead-based paint inspection has been conducted, the PHA shall conduct a risk assessment according to the following schedule, unless a risk assessment that meets the conditions of § 35.165(b) has already been completed:
(1) Risk assessments shall be completed on or before March 15, 2001, in a multifamily residential property constructed before 1960.
(2) Risk assessments shall be completed on or before March 15, 2002, in a multifamily residential property constructed after 1959 and before 1978.
(c) A PHA that advertises a construction contract (including architecture/engineering contracts) for bid or award or plans to start force account work shall not execute such contract until a lead-based paint inspection and, if required, a risk assessment, has taken place and any necessary abatement is included in the modernization budget, except for contracts solely for emergency work in accordance with § 35.115(a)(9).
(d) The five-year funding request plan for CIAP and CGP shall be amended to include the schedule and funding for lead-based paint activities.
§ 35.1120
Hazard reduction.
(a) Each PHA shall, in accordance with § 35.1325, abate all lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards identified in the evaluations conducted pursuant to § 35.1115. The PHA shall abate lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 during the course of physical improvements conducted under the modernization.
(b) In all housing where abatement of all lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards required in paragraph (a) of this section has not yet occurred, each PHA shall conduct interim controls, in accordance with § 35.1330, of the lead-based paint hazards identified in the most recent risk assessment.
(1) Interim controls of dwelling units in which any child who is less than 6 years of age resides and common areas servicing those dwelling units shall be completed within 90 days of the evaluation under § 35.1330. If a unit becomes newly occupied by a family with a child of less than 6 years of age or such child moves into a unit, interim controls shall be completed within 90 days after the new occupancy or move-in if they have not already been completed.
(2) Interim controls in dwelling units not occupied by families with one or more children of less than 6 years of age, common areas servicing those units, and the remaining portions of the residential property shall be completed no later than 12 months after completion of the evaluation conducted under § 35.1115.
(c) The PHA shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities into regular building operations in accordance with § 35.1355. In accordance with § 35.115(a) (6) and (7), this requirement does not apply to a development or part thereof if it is to be demolished or disposed of in accordance with disposition requirements in part 970 of this title, provided the dwelling unit will remain unoccupied until demolition, or if it is not used and will not be used for human habitation.
§ 35.1125
Evaluation and hazard reduction before acquisition and development.
(a) For each residential property constructed before 1978 and proposed to be acquired for a family project (whether or not it will need rehabilitation) a lead-based paint inspection and risk assessment for lead-based paint hazards shall be conducted in accordance with § 35.1320.
(b) If lead-based paint is found in a residential property to be acquired, the cost of evaluation and abatement shall be considered when making the cost comparison to justify new construction, as well as when meeting maximum total development cost limitations.
(c) If lead-based paint is found, compliance with this subpart is required, and abatement of lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards shall be completed in accordance with § 35.1325 before occupancy.
§ 35.1130
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
(a)
Environmental investigation.
Within 15 calendar days after being notified by a public health department or other medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit to which this subpart applies has been identified as having an elevated blood lead level, the PHA shall complete an environmental investigation of the dwelling unit in which the child lived at the time the blood was last sampled and of common areas servicing the dwelling unit. The environmental investigation is considered complete when the PHA receives the environmental investigation report. The requirements of this paragraph apply regardless of whether the child is or is not still living in the unit when the PHA receives the notification of the elevated blood lead level. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply if the PHA conducted an environmental investigation of the unit and common areas servicing the unit between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date when the PHA received the notification of the elevated blood lead level. If the PHA conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit during that period, the PHA need not conduct another risk assessment there but shall conduct the elements of an environmental investigation not already conducted during the risk assessment. If a public health department has already conducted an evaluation of the dwelling unit in regard to the child's elevated blood lead level case, the requirements of this paragraph shall not apply.
(b)
Verification.
After receiving information from a person who is not a medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this subpart may have an elevated blood lead level, the PHA shall immediately verify the information with the public health department or other medical health care provider. If that department or provider denies the request, such as because it does not have the capacity to verify that information, the PHA shall send documentation of the denial to its HUD field office, who shall make an effort to verify the information. If that department or provider verifies that the child has an elevated blood lead level, such verification shall constitute notification, and the housing agency shall take the action required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
(c)
Lead-based paint hazard reduction.
Within 30 calendar days after receiving the report of the environmental investigation conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or the evaluation from the public health department, the PHA shall complete the reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330. Lead-based paint hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the environmental investigation have been treated with interim controls or abatement or the local or State health department certifies that the lead-based paint hazard reduction is complete. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply if the PHA, between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date the PHA received the notification of the elevated blood lead level, already conducted an environmental investigation of the unit and common areas servicing the unit and completed reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards. If the PHA conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit during that period, it is not required to conduct another risk assessment there but it shall conduct the elements of an environmental investigation not already conducted during the risk assessment. If the PHA does not complete the lead-based paint hazard reduction required by this section, the dwelling unit is in violation of the standards of 24 CFR 965.601, which incorporates the uniform physical condition standards of § 5.703(f), including that it be free of lead-based paint hazards.
(d)
Notice of lead-based paint hazard evaluation and reduction.
The PHA shall notify building residents of any lead-based paint hazard evaluation or reduction activities in accordance with § 35.125.
(e)
Reporting requirement.
(1) The PHA shall report the name and address of a child identified as having an elevated blood lead level to the public health department within 5 business days of being so notified by any other medical health care professional.
(2) The PHA shall report each confirmed case of a child with an elevated blood lead level to the HUD field office and the HUD Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes within 5 business days of being so notified.
(3) The PHA shall provide to the HUD field office documentation that it has conducted the activities of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, within 10 business days of the deadline for each activity.
(f)
Other units in the property.
(1) If the environmental investigation conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, the PHA shall conduct a risk assessment of other units of the building in which a child under age 6 resides or is expected to reside on the date lead-based paint hazard reduction under paragraph (c) of this section is complete, and the common areas servicing those units within 30 calendar days after receipt of the environmental investigation report if there are 20 or fewer such other units, or 60 calendar days if there are more such units.
(2) If the risk assessment conducted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, the PHA shall control the hazards, in accordance with Sec. 35.1325 or § 35.1330, in those units and common areas within 30 calendar days, or within 90 calendar days if more than 20 units have lead-based paint hazards such that the control work would disturb painted surfaces that total more than the de minimis threshold of § 35.1350(d). Lead-based paint hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the risk assessment have been treated with interim controls or abatement.
(3) The PHA shall provide to the HUD field office documentation that it has conducted the activities of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, within 10 business days of the deadline for each activity.
(4) The requirements of this paragraph (f) of this section do not apply if:
(i) The PHA, between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date the PHA received the notification of the elevated blood lead level, both
conducted a risk assessment of the other assisted dwelling units covered by paragraph (f)(1) of this section and the common areas servicing those units, and conducted interim controls of identified hazards in accordance with § 35.1120(b); or
(ii) If the PHA has documentation of compliance with evaluation, notification, lead disclosure, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance, and lead-based paint management requirements under this part throughout the 12 months preceding the date the PHA received the environmental investigation report pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and,
(iii) In either case, the PHA provided the HUD field office, within 10 business days after receiving the notification of the elevated blood lead level, documentation that it has conducted the activities described in this paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
[82 FR 4169, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.1135
Eligible costs.
A PHA may use financial assistance received under the modernization program (CIAP or CGP) for the notice, evaluation and reduction of lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 968.112 of this title. Eligible costs include:
(a)
Evaluation and insurance costs.
Evaluation and hazard reduction activities, and costs for insurance coverage associated with these activities.
(b)
Planning costs.
Planning costs are costs that are incurred before HUD approval of the CGP or CIAP application and that are related to developing the CIAP application or carrying out eligible modernization planning, such as planning for abatement, detailed design work, preparation of solicitations, and evaluation. Planning costs may be funded as a single work item. Planning costs shall not exceed 5 percent of the CIAP funds available to a HUD Field Office in a particular fiscal year.
(c)
Architectural/engineering and consultant fees.
Eligible costs include fees for planning, identification of needs, detailed design work, preparation of construction and bid documents and other required documents, evaluation, planning and design for abatement, and inspection of work in progress.
(d)
Elevated blood lead level response costs.
The PHA may use its operating reserves and, when necessary, may request reimbursement from the current fiscal year CIAP funds, or request the reprogramming of previously approved CIAP funds to cover the costs of evaluation and hazard reduction.
[64 FR 50215, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 82 FR 4170, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.1140
Insurance coverage.
For the requirements concerning the obligation of a PHA to obtain reasonable insurance coverage with respect to the hazards associated with evaluation and hazard reduction activities, see § 965.215 of this title.

# Subpart M—Tenant-Based Rental Assistance

# Source:
64 FR 50216, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.1200
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart M is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in housing occupied by families receiving tenant-based rental assistance. Such assistance includes tenant-based rental assistance under the Section 8 certificate program, the Section 8 voucher program, the HOME program, the Shelter Plus Care program, the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program, and the Indian Housing Block Grant program.
Tenant-based rental assistance
means rental assistance that is not attached to the structure.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) This subpart applies only to dwelling units occupied or to be occupied by families or households that have one or more children of less than 6 years of age, common areas servicing such dwelling units, and exterior painted surfaces associated with such dwelling units or common areas. Common areas servicing a dwelling unit include those areas through which residents pass to gain access to the unit and other areas frequented by resident children of less than 6 years of age, including on-site play areas and child care facilities.
(2) For the purposes of the Section 8 tenant-based certificate program and the Section 8 voucher program:
(i) The requirements of this subpart are applicable where an initial or periodic inspection occurs on or after September 15, 2000; and
(ii) The PHA shall be the designated party.
(3) For the purposes of formula grants awarded under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (HOPWA) (42 U.S.C. 12901
et seq.
):
(i) The requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which program funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000; and
(ii) The grantee shall be the designated party.
(4) For the purposes of competitively awarded grants under the HOPWA Program and the Shelter Plus Care program (42 U.S.C. 11402-11407) tenant-based rental assistance component:
(i) The requirements of this subpart shall apply to grants awarded pursuant to Notices of Funding Availability published on or after September 15, 2000; and
(ii) The grantee shall be the designated party.
(5) For the purposes of the HOME program:
(i) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to funds which are committed in accordance with § 92.2 of this title before September 15, 2000; and
(ii) The participating jurisdiction shall be the designated party.
(6) For the purposes of the Indian Housing Block Grant program:
(i) The requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000; and
(ii) The IHBG recipient shall be the designated party.
(7) The housing agency, grantee, participating jurisdiction, or IHBG recipient may assign to a subrecipient or other entity the responsibilities of the designated party in this subpart.
[64 FR 50216, Sept. 15, 1999; 65 FR 3387, Jan. 21, 2000]
§ 35.1205
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.1210
Notices and pamphlet.
(a)
Notice.
In cases where evaluation or paint stabilization is undertaken, the owner shall provide a notice to residents in accordance with § 35.125. A visual assessment alone is not considered an evaluation for purposes of this part.
(b)
Lead hazard information pamphlet.
The owner shall provide the lead hazard information pamphlet in accordance with § 35.130.
[64 FR 50216, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.1215
Activities at initial and periodic inspection.
(a) (1) During the initial and periodic inspections, an inspector acting on behalf of the designated party and trained in visual assessment for deteriorated paint surfaces in accordance with procedures established by HUD shall conduct a visual assessment of all painted surfaces in order to identify any deteriorated paint.
(2) For tenant-based rental assistance provided under the HOME program, visual assessment shall be conducted as part of the initial and periodic inspections required under § 92.209(i) of this title.
(b) The owner shall stabilize each deteriorated paint surface in accordance with §§ 35.1330(a) and (b) before commencement of assisted occupancy. If assisted occupancy has commenced prior to a periodic inspection, such paint stabilization must be completed within 30 days of notification of the owner of the results of the visual assessment. Paint stabilization is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340. If the owner does not complete the hazard reduction required by this section, the dwelling unit is in violation of Housing Quality Standards (HQS) until the hazard reduction is completed or the unit is no longer covered by this subpart because the unit is no longer under a housing assistance payment
(HAP) contract with the housing agency. For the unit subsequently to come under a HAP contract with the housing agency for occupancy by a family with a child under age 6, paint stabilization must be completed, including clearance being achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.
(c) The owner shall provide a notice to occupants in accordance with § 35.125(b)(1) and (c) describing the results of the clearance examination.
(d) The designated party may grant the owner an extension of time to complete paint stabilization and clearance for reasonable cause, but such an extension shall not extend beyond 90 days after the date of notification to the owner of the results of the visual assessment.
[64 FR 50216, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004; 82 FR 4170, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.1220
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities.
Notwithstanding the designation of the PHA, grantee, participating jurisdiction, or Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) recipient as the designated party for this subpart, the owner shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities into regular building operations in accordance with § 35.1355(a).
[69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.1225
Child with an elevated blood lead level.
(a) Within 15 calendar days after being notified by a public health department or other medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit to which this subpart applies has been identified as having an elevated blood lead level, the designated party shall complete an environmental investigation of the dwelling unit in which the child lived at the time the blood was last sampled and of common areas servicing the dwelling unit. When the environmental investigation is complete, the designated party shall immediately provide the report of the environmental investigation to the owner of the dwelling unit. If the child identified as having an elevated blood lead level is no longer living in the unit when the designated party receives notification from the public health department or other medical health care provider, but another household receiving tenant-based rental assistance is living in the unit or is planning to live there, the requirements of this section apply just as they do if the child still lives in the unit. If a public health department has already conducted an evaluation of the dwelling unit in regard to the child's elevated blood lead level case, or the designated party conducted an environmental investigation of the unit and common areas servicing the unit between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date when the designated party received the notification of the elevated blood lead level, the requirements of this paragraph shall not apply. If the designated party or the owner conducted a risk assessment of the unit and common areas servicing the unit during that period, the designated party need not conduct another risk assessment there but shall conduct the elements of an environmental investigation not already conducted during the risk assessment.
(b)
Verification.
After receiving information from a person who is not a medical health care provider that a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this subpart may have an elevated blood lead level, the designated party shall immediately verify the information with the public health department or other medical health care provider. If the public health department or provider denies the request, such as because it does not have the capacity to verify that information, the designated party shall send documentation of the denial to the HUD rental assistance program manager, who shall make an effort to verify the information. If that department or provider verifies that the child has an elevated blood lead level, such verification shall constitute notification, and the designated party shall take the action required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.
(c)
Lead-based paint hazard reduction.
Within 30 calendar days after receiving the report of the environmental investigation from the designated party or the evaluation from the public health department, the owner shall complete
the reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330. Lead-based paint hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the environmental investigation have been treated with interim controls or abatement or the public health department certifies that the lead-based paint hazard reduction is complete. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply if the designated party or the owner, between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date the designated party received the notification of the elevated blood lead level, already conducted an environmental investigation of the unit and common areas servicing the unit and the owner completed reduction of identified lead-based paint hazards. If the owner does not complete the lead-based paint hazard reduction required by this section, the dwelling unit is in violation of the standards of 24 CFR 982.401.
(d)
Notice of lead-based paint hazard evaluation and reduction.
The owner shall notify building residents of any lead-based paint hazard evaluation or reduction activities in accordance with § 35.125.
(e)
Reporting requirement.
(1) The owner shall report the name and address of a child identified as having an elevated blood lead level to the public health department within 5 business days of being so notified by any other medical health care professional.
(2) The owner shall also report each confirmed case of a child with an elevated blood lead level to the HUD field office and the HUD Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes within 5 business days of being so notified.
(3) The owner shall provide to the HUD field office documentation that it has conducted the activities of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, within 10 business days of the deadline for each activity.
(f)
Other assisted dwelling units in the property.
(1) If the environmental investigation conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, the designated party or the owner shall, for other assisted dwelling units covered by this part in which a child under age 6 resides or is expected to reside on the date lead-based paint hazard reduction under paragraph (c) of this section is complete, and the common areas servicing those units, conduct a risk assessment in accordance with § 35.1320(b) within 30 calendar days after receipt of the environmental investigation report if there are 20 or fewer such units, or 60 calendar days if there are more such units.
(2) If the risk assessment conducted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section identifies lead-based paint hazards, the owner shall complete the reduction of the lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1325 or § 35.1330 within 30 calendar days, or within 90 calendar days if more than 20 units have lead-based paint hazards such that the control work would disturb painted surfaces that total more than the de minimis threshold of § 35.1350(d). Lead-based paint hazard reduction is considered complete when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340 and the clearance report states that all lead-based paint hazards identified in the risk assessment have been treated with interim controls or abatement.
(3) The requirements of this paragraph (f) of this section do not apply if:
(i) The designated party or the owner, between the date the child's blood was last sampled and the date the owner received the notification of the elevated blood lead level, both conducted a risk assessment of the other assisted dwelling units covered by paragraph (f)(1) of this section and the common areas servicing those units, and the owner conducted interim controls of identified lead-based paint hazards in accordance with § 35.1225(c); or
(ii) The owner has documentation of compliance with evaluation, notification, lead disclosure, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance, and lead-based paint management requirements under this part throughout the 12 months preceding the date the owner received the environmental investigation report pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and,
(iii) In either case, the owner provided the HUD field office, within 10
business days after receiving the notification of the elevated blood lead level, documentation that it has conducted the activities described in this paragraph (f)(3).
(g)
Data collection and record keeping responsibilities.
At least quarterly, the designated party shall attempt to obtain from the public health department(s) with area(s) of jurisdiction similar to that of the designated party the names and/or addresses of children of less than 6 years of age with an identified elevated blood lead level. At least quarterly, the designated party shall also report an updated list of the addresses of units receiving assistance under a tenant-based rental assistance program to the same public health department(s), except that the report(s) to the public health department(s) is not required if the health department states that it does not wish to receive such report. If it obtains names and addresses of elevated blood lead level children from the public health department(s), the designated party shall match information on cases of elevated blood lead levels with the names and addresses of families receiving tenant-based rental assistance, unless the public health department performs such a matching procedure.
If a match occurs, the designated party shall carry out the requirements of this section.
[82 FR 4171, Jan. 13, 2017]
Subparts N-Q [Reserved]

# Subpart R—Methods and Standards for Lead-Paint Hazard Evaluation and Hazard Reduction Activities

# Source:
64 FR 50218, Sept. 15, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.1300
Purpose and applicability.
The purpose of this subpart R is to provide standards and methods for evaluation and hazard reduction activities required in subparts B, C, D, and F through M of this part.
§ 35.1305
Definitions and other general requirements.
Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this subpart are found in subpart B of this part.
§ 35.1310
References.
Further guidance information regarding evaluation and hazard reduction activities described in this subpart is found in the following:
(a) The HUD Guidelines for the Evaluation and Control of Lead-Based Paint Hazards in Housing (Guidelines);
(b) The EPA Guidance on Residential Lead-Based Paint, Lead-Contaminated Dust, and Lead Contaminated Soil;
(c) Guidance, methods or protocols issued by States and Indian tribes that have been authorized by EPA under 40 CFR 745.324 to administer and enforce lead-based paint programs.
§ 35.1315
Collection and laboratory analysis of samples.
All paint chip, dust, or soil samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with standards established either by a State or Indian tribe under a program authorized by EPA in accordance with 40 CFR part 745, subpart Q, or by the EPA in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227, and as further provided in this subpart.
§ 35.1320
Lead-based paint inspections, paint testing, risk assessments, lead-hazard screens, and reevaluations.
(a)
Lead-based paint inspections and paint testing.
Lead-based paint inspections shall be performed in accordance with methods and standards established either by a State or Tribal program authorized by the EPA under 40 CFR 745.324, or by the EPA at 40 CFR 745.227(b) and (h). Paint testing to determine the presence or absence of lead-based paint on deteriorated paint surfaces or surfaces to be disturbed or replaced shall be performed by a certified lead-based paint inspector or risk assessor.
(b) Risk assessments, lead-hazard screens and reevaluations. (1) Risk assessments and lead-hazard screens shall be performed in accordance with
methods and standards established either by a state or tribal program authorized by the EPA, or by the EPA at 40 CFR 745.227(c), (d), and (h) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Reevaluations shall be performed by a certified risk assessor in accordance with § 35.1355(b) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Risk assessors shall use standards for determining dust-lead hazards and soil-lead hazards that are at least as protective as those promulgated by the EPA at 40 CFR 745.227(h) or, if such standards are not in effect, the following levels for dust or soil:
(i)
Dust.
A dust-lead hazard is surface dust that contains a mass-per-area concentration (loading) of lead, based on wipe samples, equal to or exceeding the applicable level in the following table:
Dust Lead Standards
Evaluation method
Surface
Floors, µg/ft
2
(mg/m
2
)
Interior window
sills, µg/ft
2
(mg/m
2
)
Window troughs,
µg/ft
2
(mg/m
2
)
Risk Assessment
40 (0.43)
250 (2.7)
Not Applicable.
Lead Hazard Screen
25 (0.27)
125 (1.4)
Not Applicable.
Reevaluation
40 (0.43)
250 (2.7)
Not Applicable.
Clearance
40 (0.43)
250 (2.7)
400 (4.3).
Note 1: “Floors” includes carpeted and uncarpeted interior floors.
Note 2: A dust-lead hazard is present or clearance fails when the weighted arithmetic mean lead loading for all single-surface or composite samples is equal to or greater than the applicable standard. For composite samples of two to four subsamples, the standard is determined by dividing the standard in the table by one half the number of subsamples. See EPA regulations at 40 CFR 745.63 and 745.227(h)(3)(i).
(ii)
Soil.
(A) A soil-lead hazard for play areas frequented by children under six years of age is bare soil with lead equal to or exceeding 400 parts per million (micrograms per gram).
(B) For the rest of the yard, a soil-lead hazard is bare soil that totals more than 9 square feet (0.8 square meters) per property with lead equal to or exceeding an average of 1,200 parts per million (micrograms per gram).
(3) Lead-hazard screens shall be performed in accordance with the methods and standards established either by a state or Tribal program authorized by the EPA, or by the EPA at 40 CFR 745.227(c), and paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. If the lead-hazard screen indicates the need for a follow-up risk assessment (
e.g.
, if dust-lead measurements exceed the levels established for lead-hazard screens in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section), a risk assessment shall be conducted in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. Dust, soil, and paint samples collected for the lead-hazard screen may be used in the risk assessment. If the lead hazard screen does not indicate the need for a follow-up risk assessment, no further risk assessment is required.
(c) It is strongly recommended, but not required, that lead-based paint inspectors, risk assessors, and sampling technicians provide a plain-language summary of the results suitable for posting or distribution to occupants in compliance with § 35.125.
[69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.1325
Abatement.
Abatement shall be performed in accordance with methods and standards established either by a State or Indian tribe under a program authorized by EPA, or by EPA at 40 CFR 745.227(e), and shall be completed by achieving clearance in accordance with § 35.1340. If encapsulation or enclosure is used as a method of abatement, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities shall be performed as required by the applicable subpart of this part in accordance with § 35.1355. Abatement of an intact, factory-applied prime coating on metal surfaces is not required unless the surface is a friction surface.
§ 35.1330
Interim controls.
Interim controls of lead-based paint hazards identified in a risk assessment shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section. Interim control measures include paint stabilization of deteriorated paint, treatments for friction and impact surfaces where levels of lead dust are above the levels specified in § 35.1320, dust control, and lead-contaminated soil control. As provided by § 35.155, interim controls may be performed in combination with, or be replaced by, abatement methods.
(a)
General requirements.
(1) Only those interim control methods identified as acceptable methods in a current risk assessment report shall be used to
control identified hazards, except that, if only paint stabilization is required in accordance with subparts F, H, K or M of this part, it shall not be necessary to have conducted a risk assessment.
(2) Occupants of dwelling units where interim controls are being performed shall be protected during the course of the work in accordance with § 35.1345.
(3) Clearance testing shall be performed at the conclusion of interim control activities in accordance with § 35.1340.
(4) A person performing interim controls must be trained in accordance with the hazard communication standard for the construction industry issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor at 29 CFR 1926.59, and either be supervised by an individual certified as a lead-based paint abatement supervisor or have completed successfully one of the following lead-safe work practices courses, except that this supervision or lead-safe work practices training requirement does not apply to work that disturbs painted surfaces less than the
de minimis
limits of § 35.1350(d):
(i) A lead-based paint abatement supervisor course accredited in accordance with 40 CFR 745.225;
(ii) A lead-based paint abatement worker course accredited in accordance with 40 CFR 745.225; or
(iii) A renovator course accredited in accordance with 40 CFR 745.225.
(iv) “The Remodeler's and Renovator's Lead-Based Paint Training Program,” prepared by HUD and the National Association of the Remodeling Industry; or
(v) Another course approved by HUD for this purpose after consultation with EPA.
(b)
Paint stabilization.
(1) Interim control treatments used to stabilize deteriorated lead-based paint shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of this section. Interim control treatments of intact, factory applied prime coatings on metal surfaces are not required. Finish coatings on such surfaces shall be treated by interim controls if those coatings contain lead-based paint.
(2) Any physical defect in the substrate of a painted surface or component that is causing deterioration of the surface or component shall be repaired before treating the surface or component. Examples of defective substrate conditions include dry-rot, rust, moisture-related defects, crumbling plaster, and missing siding or other components that are not securely fastened.
(3) Before applying new paint, all loose paint and other loose material shall be removed from the surface to be treated. Acceptable methods for preparing the surface to be treated include wet scraping, wet sanding, and power sanding performed in conjunction with a HEPA filtered local exhaust attachment operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(4) Dry sanding or dry scraping is permitted only in accordance with § 35.140(e) (i.e., for electrical safety reasons or for specified minor amounts of work).
(5) Paint stabilization shall include the application of a new protective coating or paint. The surface substrate shall be dry and protected from future moisture damage before applying a new protective coating or paint. All protective coatings and paints shall be applied in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(6) Paint stabilization shall incorporate the use of safe work practices in accordance with § 35.1350.
(c)
Friction and impact surfaces.
(1) Friction surfaces are required to be treated only if:
(i) Lead dust levels on the nearest horizontal surface underneath the friction surface (e.g., the window sill, window trough, or floor) are equal to or greater than the standards specified in 35.1320(b);
(ii) There is evidence that the paint surface is subject to abrasion; and
(iii) Lead-based paint is known or presumed to be present on the friction surface.
(2) Impact surfaces are required to be treated only if:
(i) Paint on an impact surface is damaged or otherwise deteriorated;
(ii) The damaged paint is caused by impact from a related building component (such as a door knob that knocks into a wall, or a door that knocks against its door frame); and
(iii) Lead-based paint is known or presumed to be present on the impact surface.
(3) Examples of building components that may contain friction or impact surfaces include the following:
(i) Window systems;
(ii) Doors;
(iii) Stair treads and risers;
(iv) Baseboards;
(v) Drawers and cabinets; and
(vi) Porches, decks, interior floors, and any other painted surfaces that are abraded, rubbed, or impacted.
(4) Interim control treatments for friction surfaces shall eliminate friction points or treat the friction surface so that paint is not subject to abrasion. Examples of acceptable treatments include rehanging and/or planing doors so that the door does not rub against the door frame, and installing window channel guides that reduce or eliminate abrasion of painted surfaces. Paint on stair treads and floors shall be protected with a durable cover or coating that will prevent abrasion of the painted surfaces. Examples of acceptable materials include carpeting, tile, and sheet flooring.
(5) Interim control treatments for impact surfaces shall protect the paint from impact. Examples of acceptable treatments include treatments that eliminate impact with the paint surface, such as a door stop to prevent a door from striking a wall or baseboard.
(6) Interim control for impact or friction surfaces does not include covering such a surface with a coating or other treatment, such as painting over the surface, that does not protect lead-based paint from impact or abrasion.
(d)
Chewable surfaces.
(1) Chewable surfaces are required to be treated only if there is evidence of teeth marks, indicating that a child of less than six years of age has chewed on the painted surface, and lead-based paint is known or presumed to be present on the surface.
(2) Interim control treatments for chewable surfaces shall make the lead-based paint inaccessible for chewing by children of less than 6 years of age. Examples include enclosures or coatings that cannot be penetrated by the teeth of such children.
(e)
Dust-lead hazard control.
(1) Interim control treatments used to control dust-lead hazards shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of this section. Additional information on dust removal is found in the HUD Guidelines, particularly Chapter 11 (see § 35.1310).
(2) Dust control shall involve a thorough cleaning of all horizontal surfaces, such as interior window sills, window troughs, floors, and stairs, but excluding ceilings. All horizontal surfaces, such as floors, stairs, window sills and window troughs, that are rough, pitted, or porous shall be covered with a smooth, cleanable covering or coating, such as metal coil stock, plastic, polyurethane, or linoleum.
(3) Surfaces covered by a rug or carpeting shall be cleaned as follows:
(i) The floor surface under a rug or carpeting shall be cleaned where feasible, including upon removal of the rug or carpeting, with a HEPA vacuum or other method of equivalent efficacy.
(ii) An unattached rug or an attached carpet that is to be removed, and padding associated with such rug or carpet, located in an area of the dwelling unit with dust-lead hazards on the floor, shall be thoroughly vacuumed with a HEPA vacuum or other method of equivalent efficacy. Protective measures shall be used to prevent the spread of dust during removal of a rug, carpet or padding from the dwelling. For example, it shall be misted to reduce dust generation during removal. The item(s) being removed shall be wrapped or otherwise sealed before removal from the worksite.
(iii) An attached carpet located in an area of the dwelling unit with dust-lead hazards on the floor shall be thoroughly vacuumed with a HEPA vacuum or other method of equivalent efficacy if it is not to be removed.
(f)
Soil-lead hazards.
(1) Interim control treatments used to control soil-lead hazards shall be performed in accordance with this section.
(2) Soil with a lead concentration equal to or greater than 5,000 µg/g of lead shall be abated in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e).
(3) Acceptable interim control methods for soil lead are impermanent surface coverings and land use controls.
(i) Impermanent surface coverings may be used to treat lead-contaminated soil if applied in accordance with the following requirements. Examples of acceptable impermanent coverings include gravel, bark, sod, and artificial turf.
(A) Impermanent surface coverings selected shall be designed to withstand the reasonably-expected traffic. For example, if the area to be treated is heavily traveled, neither grass or sod shall be used.
(B) When loose impermanent surface coverings such as bark or gravel are used, they shall be applied in a thickness not less than six inches deep.
(C) The impermanent surface covering material shall not contain more than 400 µg/g of lead.
(D) Adequate controls to prevent erosion shall be used in conjunction with impermanent surface coverings.
(ii) Land use controls may be used to reduce exposure to soil-lead hazards only if they effectively control access to areas with soil-lead hazards. Examples of land use controls include: fencing, warning signs, and landscaping.
(A) Land use controls shall be implemented only if residents have reasonable alternatives to using the area to be controlled.
(B) If land use controls are used for a soil area that is subject to erosion, measures shall be taken to contain the soil and control dispersion of lead.
[64 FR 50218, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34274, June 21, 2004; 79 FR 35043, June 19, 2014; 82 FR 4172, Jan. 13, 2017]
§ 35.1335
Standard treatments.
Standard treatments shall be conducted in accordance with this section.
(a)
Paint stabilization.
All deteriorated paint on exterior and interior surfaces located on the residential property shall be stabilized in accordance with § 35.1330(a)(b), or abated in accordance with § 35.1325.
(b)
Smooth and cleanable horizontal surfaces.
All horizontal surfaces, such as uncarpeted floors, stairs, interior window sills and window troughs, that are rough, pitted, or porous, shall be covered with a smooth, cleanable covering or coating, such as metal coil stock, plastic, polyurethane, or linoleum.
(c)
Correcting dust-generating conditions.
Conditions causing friction or impact of painted surfaces shall be corrected in accordance with § 35.1330(c)(4)-(6).
(d)
Bare residential soil.
Bare soil shall be treated in accordance with the requirements of § 35.1330, unless it is found not to be a soil-lead hazard in accordance with § 35.1320(b).
(e)
Safe work practices.
All standard treatments described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section shall incorporate the use of safe work practices in accordance with § 35.1350.
(f)
Clearance.
A clearance examination shall be performed in accordance with § 35.1340 at the conclusion of any lead hazard reduction activities.
(g)
Qualifications.
An individual performing standard treatments must meet the training and/or supervision requirements of § 35.1330(a)(4).
§ 35.1340
Clearance.
Clearance examinations required under subparts B, C, D, F through M, and R, of this part shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(a)
Clearance following abatement.
Clearance examinations performed following abatement of lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards shall be performed in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e) and paragraphs (c)-(f) of this section. Such clearances shall be performed by a person certified to perform risk assessments or lead-based paint inspections.
(b)
Clearance following activities other than abatement.
Clearance examinations performed following interim controls, paint stabilization, standard treatments, ongoing lead-based paint maintenance, or rehabilitation shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph (b) and paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section. Clearance is not required if the work being cleared does not disturb painted surfaces of a total area more than that set forth in § 35.1350(d).
(1)
Qualified personnel.
Clearance examinations shall be performed by:
(i) A certified risk assessor;
(ii) A certified lead-based paint inspector;
(iii) A person who has successfully completed a training course for sampling technicians (or a discipline of similar purpose and title) that is developed or accepted by EPA or a State or tribal program authorized by EPA pursuant to 40 CFR part 745, subpart Q, and that is given by a training provider accredited by EPA or a State or Indian Tribe for training in lead-based paint inspection or risk assessment, provided a certified risk assessor or a certified lead-based paint inspector approves the work of the sampling technician and signs the report of the clearance examination; or
(iv) A technician licensed or certified by EPA or a State or Indian Tribe to perform clearance examinations without the approval of a certified risk assessor or certified lead-based paint inspector, provided that a clearance examination by such a licensed or certified technician shall be performed only for a single-family property or individual dwelling units and associated common areas in a multi-unit property, and provided further that a clearance examination by such a licensed or certified sampling technician shall not be performed using random sampling of dwelling units or common areas in multifamily properties, except that a clearance examination performed by such a licensed or certified sampling technician is acceptable for any residential property if the clearance examination is approved and the report signed by a certified risk assessor or a certified lead-based paint inspector.
(2)
Required activities.
(i) Clearance examinations shall include a visual assessment, dust sampling, submission of samples for analysis for lead in dust, interpretation of sampling results, and preparation of a report. Soil sampling is not required. Clearance examinations shall be performed in dwelling units, common areas, and exterior areas in accordance with this section and the steps set forth at 40 CFR 745.227(e)(8). If clearance is being performed after lead-based paint hazard reduction, paint stabilization, maintenance, or rehabilitation that affected exterior surfaces but did not disturb interior painted surfaces or involve elimination of an interior dust-lead hazard, interior clearance is not required if window, door, ventilation, and other openings are sealed during the exterior work. If clearance is being performed for more than 10 dwelling units of similar construction and maintenance, as in a multifamily property, random sampling for the purpose of clearance may be conducted in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e)(9).
(ii) The visual assessment shall be performed to determine if deteriorated paint surfaces and/or visible amounts of dust, debris, paint chips or other residue are still present. Both exterior and interior painted surfaces shall be examined for the presence of deteriorated paint. If deteriorated paint or visible dust, debris or residue are present in areas subject to dust sampling, they must be eliminated prior to the continuation of the clearance examination, except elimination of deteriorated paint is not required if it has been determined, through paint testing or a lead-based paint inspection, that the deteriorated paint is not lead-based paint. If exterior painted surfaces have been disturbed by the hazard reduction, maintenance or rehabilitation activity, the visual assessment shall include an assessment of the ground and any outdoor living areas close to the affected exterior painted surfaces. Visible dust or debris in living areas shall be cleaned up and visible paint chips on the ground shall be removed.
(iii) Dust samples shall be wipe samples and shall be taken on floors and, where practicable, interior window sills and window troughs. Dust samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with § 35.1315 of this part.
(iv) Clearance reports shall be prepared in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Clearance report.
When clearance is required, the designated party shall ensure that a clearance report is prepared that provides documentation of the hazard reduction or maintenance activity as well as the clearance examination. When abatement is performed, the report shall be an abatement report in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(e)(10). When another hazard reduction or maintenance activity requiring a clearance report is performed, the report shall include the following information:
(1) The address of the residential property and, if only part of a multifamily property is affected, the specific dwelling units and common areas affected.
(2) The following information on the clearance examination:
(i) The date(s) of the clearance examination;
(ii) The name, address, and signature of each person performing the clearance examination, including certification number;
(iii) The results of the visual assessment for the presence of deteriorated paint and visible dust, debris, residue or paint chips;
(iv) The results of the analysis of dust samples, in µg/sq.ft., by location of sample; and
(v) The name and address of each laboratory that conducted the analysis of the dust samples, including the identification number for each such laboratory recognized by EPA under section 405(b) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2685(b)).
(3) The following information on the hazard reduction or maintenance activity for which clearance was performed:
(i) The start and completion dates of the hazard reduction or maintenance activity;
(ii) The name and address of each firm or organization conducting the hazard reduction or maintenance activity and the name of each supervisor assigned;
(iii) A detailed written description of the hazard reduction or maintenance activity, including the methods used, locations of exterior surfaces, interior rooms, common areas, and/or components where the hazard reduction activity occurred, and any suggested monitoring of encapsulants or enclosures; and
(iv) If soil hazards were reduced, a detailed description of the location(s) of the hazard reduction activity and the method(s) used.
(d)
Standards.
The clearance standards in § 35.1320(b)(2) shall apply. If test results equal or exceed the standards, the dwelling unit, worksite, or common area represented by the sample fails the clearance examination.
(e)
Clearance failure.
All surfaces represented by a failed clearance sample shall be recleaned or treated by hazard reduction, and retested, until the applicable clearance level in § 35.1320(b)(2) is met.
(f)
Independence.
Clearance examinations shall be performed by persons or entities independent of those performing hazard reduction or maintenance activities, unless the designated party uses qualified in-house employees to conduct clearance. An in-house employee shall not conduct both a hazard reduction or maintenance activity and its clearance examination.
(g)
Worksite clearance.
Clearance of only the worksite is permitted after work covered by §§ 35.930, 35.1330, 35.1335, or 35.1355, when containment is used to ensure that dust and debris generated by the work is kept within the worksite. Otherwise, clearance must be of the entire dwelling unit, common area, or outbuilding, as applicable. When clearance is of an interior worksite that is not an entire dwelling unit, common area, or outbuilding, dust samples shall be taken for paragraph (b) of this section as follows:
(1) Sample, from each of at least four rooms, hallways, stairwells, or common areas within the dust containment area:
(i) The floor (one sample); and
(ii) Windows (one interior sill sample and one trough sample, if present); and
(2) Sample the floor in a room, hallway, stairwell, or common area connected to the dust containment area, within five feet outside the area (one sample).
[64 FR 50218, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34274, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.1345
Occupant protection and worksite preparation.
This section establishes procedures for protecting dwelling unit occupants and the environment from contamination from lead-contaminated or lead-containing materials during hazard reduction activities.
(a)
Occupant protection.
(1) Occupants shall not be permitted to enter the worksite during hazard reduction activities (unless they are employed in the conduct of these activities at the worksite), until after hazard reduction work has been completed and clearance, if required, has been achieved.
(2) Occupants shall be temporarily relocated before and during hazard reduction activities to a suitable, decent, safe, and similarly accessible dwelling unit that does not have lead-based paint hazards, except if:
(i) Treatment will not disturb lead-based paint, dust-lead hazards or soil-lead hazards;
(ii) Only the exterior of the dwelling unit is treated, and windows, doors, ventilation intakes and other openings in or near the worksite are sealed during hazard control work and cleaned afterward, and entry free of dust-lead hazards, soil-lead hazards, and debris is provided;
(iii) Treatment of the interior will be completed within one period of 8-daytime hours, the worksite is contained so as to prevent the release of leaded dust and debris into other areas, and treatment does not create other safety, health or environmental hazards (e.g., exposed live electrical wiring, release of toxic fumes, or on-site disposal of hazardous waste); or
(iv) Treatment of the interior will be completed within 5 calendar days, the worksite is contained so as to prevent the release of leaded dust and debris into other areas, treatment does not create other safety, health or environmental hazards; and, at the end of work on each day, the worksite and the area within at least 10 feet (3 meters) of the containment area is cleaned to remove any visible dust or debris, and occupants have safe access to sleeping areas, and bathroom and kitchen facilities.
(3) The dwelling unit and the worksite shall be secured against unauthorized entry, and occupants' belongings protected from contamination by dust-lead hazards and debris during hazard reduction activities. Occupants' belongings in the containment area shall be relocated to a safe and secure area outside the containment area, or covered with an impermeable covering with all seams and edges taped or otherwise sealed.
(b)
Worksite preparation.
(1) The worksite shall be prepared to prevent the release of leaded dust, and contain lead-based paint chips and other debris from hazard reduction activities within the worksite until they can be safely removed. Practices that minimize the spread of leaded dust, paint chips, soil and debris shall be used during worksite preparation.
(2) A warning sign shall be posted at each entry to a room where hazard reduction activities are conducted when occupants are present; or at each main and secondary entryway to a building from which occupants have been relocated; or, for an exterior hazard reduction activity, where it is easily read 20 feet (6 meters) from the edge of the hazard reduction activity worksite. Each warning sign shall be as described in 29 CFR 1926.62(m), except that it shall be posted irrespective of employees' lead exposure and, to the extent practicable, provided in the occupants' primary language.
§ 35.1350
Safe work practices.
(a)
Prohibited methods.
Methods of paint removal listed in § 35.140 shall not be used.
(b)
Occupant protection and worksite preparation.
Occupants and their belongings shall be protected, and the worksite prepared, in accordance with § 35.1345. A person performing this work shall be trained on hazards and either be supervised or have completed successfully one of the specified courses, in accordance with § 35.1330(a)(4).
(c)
Specialized cleaning.
After hazard reduction activities have been completed, the worksite shall be cleaned using cleaning methods, products, and devices that are successful in cleaning up dust-lead hazards, such as a HEPA vacuum or other method of equivalent efficacy, and lead-specific detergents or equivalent.
(d)
De minimis levels.
Safe work practices are not required when maintenance or hazard reduction activities do not disturb painted surfaces that total more than:
(1) 20 square feet (2 square meters) on exterior surfaces;
(2) 2 square feet (0.2 square meters) in any one interior room or space; or
(3) 10 percent of the total surface area on an interior or exterior type of component with a small surface area. Examples include window sills, baseboards, and trim.
[64 FR 50218, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34275, June 21, 2004]
§ 35.1355
Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities.
(a)
Maintenance.
Maintenance activities shall be conducted in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2)-(6) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(1) Maintenance activities need not be conducted in accordance with this section if a lead-based paint inspection indicates that no lead-based paint is present in the dwelling units, common areas, and on exterior surfaces, or a clearance report prepared in accordance with § 35.1340(a) indicates that all lead-based paint has been removed.
(2) A visual assessment for deteriorated paint, bare soil, and the failure of any hazard reduction measures shall be performed at unit turnover and every twelve months.
(3) (i)
Deteriorated paint.
All deteriorated paint on interior and exterior surfaces located on the residential property shall be stabilized in accordance with § 35.1330(a)(b), except for any paint that an evaluation has found is not lead-based paint.
(ii)
Bare soil.
All bare soil shall be treated with standard treatments in accordance with § 35.1335(d) through (g), or interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330(a) and (f); except for any bare soil that a current evaluation has found is not a soil-lead hazard.
(4) Safe work practices, in accordance with sec. 35.1350, shall be used when performing any maintenance or renovation work that disturbs paint that may be lead-based paint.
(5) Any encapsulation or enclosure of lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards which has failed to maintain its effectiveness shall be repaired, or abatement or interim controls shall be performed in accordance with §§ 35.1325 or 35.1330, respectively.
(6) Clearance testing of the worksite shall be performed at the conclusion of repair, abatement or interim controls in accordance with § 35.1340.
(7) Each dwelling unit shall be provided with written notice asking occupants to report deteriorated paint and, if applicable, failure of encapsulation or enclosure, along with the name, address and telephone number of the person whom occupants should contact. The language of the notice shall be in accordance with § 35.125(c)(3). The designated party shall respond to such report and stabilize the deteriorated paint or repair the encapsulation or enclosure within 30 days.
(b)
Reevaluation.
Reevaluation shall be conducted in accordance with this paragraph (b), and the designated party shall conduct interim controls of lead-based paint hazards found in the reevaluation.
(1) Reevaluation shall be conducted if hazard reduction has been conducted to reduce lead-based paint hazards found in a risk assessment or if standard treatments have been conducted, except that reevaluation is not required if any of the following cases are met:
(i) An initial risk assessment found no lead-based paint hazards;
(ii) A lead-based paint inspection found no lead-based paint; or
(iii) All lead-based paint was abated in accordance with § 35.1325, provided that no failures of encapsulations or enclosures have been found during visual assessments conducted in accordance with § 35.1355(a)(2) or during other observations by maintenance and repair workers in accordance with § 35.1355(a)(5) since the encapsulations or enclosures were performed.
(2) Reevaluation shall be conducted to identify:
(i) Deteriorated paint surfaces with known or suspected lead-based paint;
(ii) Deteriorated or failed interim controls of lead-based paint hazards or encapsulation or enclosure treatments;
(iii) Dust-lead hazards; and
(iv) Soil that is newly bare with lead levels equal to or above the standards in § 35.1320(b)(2).
(3) Each reevaluation shall be performed by a certified risk assessor.
(4) Each reevaluation shall be conducted in accordance with the following schedule if a risk assessment or other evaluation has found deteriorated lead-based paint in the residential property, a soil-lead hazard, or a dust-lead hazard on a floor or interior window sill. (Window troughs are not sampled during reevaluation). The first reevaluation shall be conducted no later than two years from completion
of hazard reduction. Subsequent reevaluation shall be conducted at intervals of two years, plus or minus 60 days. To be exempt from additional reevaluation, at least two consecutive reevaluations conducted at such two-year intervals must be conducted without finding lead-based paint hazards or a failure of an encapsulation or enclosure. If, however, a reevaluation finds lead-based paint hazards or a failure, at least two more consecutive reevaluations conducted at such two year intervals must be conducted without finding lead-based paint hazards or a failure.
(5) Each reevaluation shall be performed as follows:
(i) Dwelling units and common areas shall be selected and reevaluated in accordance with § 35.1320(b).
(ii) The worksites of previous hazard reduction activities that are similar on the basis of their original lead-based paint hazard and type of treatment shall be grouped. Worksites within such groups shall be selected and reevaluated in accordance with § 35.1320(b).
(6) Each reevaluation shall include reviewing available information, conducting selected visual assessment, recommending responses to hazard reduction omissions or failures, performing selected evaluation of paint, soil and dust, and recommending response to newly-found lead-based paint hazards.
(i)
Review of available information.
The risk assessor shall review any available past evaluation, hazard reduction and clearance reports, and any other available information describing hazard reduction measures, ongoing maintenance activities, and relevant building operations.
(ii)
Visual assessment.
The risk assessor shall:
(A) Visually evaluate all lead-based paint hazard reduction treatments, any known or suspected lead-based paint, any deteriorated paint, and each exterior site, and shall identify any new areas of bare soil;
(B) Determine acceptable options for controlling the hazard; and
(C) Await the correction of any hazard reduction omission or failure and the reduction of any lead-based paint hazard before sampling any dust or soil the risk assessor determines may reasonably be associated with such hazard.
(iii)
Reaction to hazard reduction omission or failure.
If any hazard reduction control has not been implemented or is failing (e.g., an encapsulant is peeling away from the wall, a paint-stabilized surface is no longer intact, or gravel covering an area of bare soil has worn away), or deteriorated lead-based paint is present, the risk assessor shall:
(A) Determine acceptable options for controlling the hazard; and
(B) Await the correction of any hazard reduction omission or failure and the reduction of any lead-based paint hazard before sampling any dust or soil the risk assessor determines may reasonably be associated with such hazard.
(iv)
Selected paint, soil and dust evaluation.
(A) The risk assessor shall sample deteriorated paint surfaces identified during the visual assessment and have the samples analyzed, in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(b)(3)(4), but only if reliable information about lead content is unavailable.
(B) The risk assessor shall evaluate new areas of bare soil identified during the visual assessment. Soil samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(d)(8)-(11), but only if the soil lead levels have not been previously measured.
(C) The risk assessor shall take selected dust samples and have them analyzed. Dust samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with § 35.1320(b). At least two composite samples, one from floors and the other from interior window sills, shall be taken in each dwelling unit and common area selected. Each composite sample shall consist of four individual samples, each collected from a different room or area. If the dwelling unit contains both carpeted and uncarpeted living areas, separate floor samples are required from the carpeted and uncarpeted areas. Equivalent single-surface sampling may be used instead of composite sampling.
(7) The risk assessor shall provide the designated party with a written report documenting the presence or absence of lead-based paint hazards, the current status of any hazard reduction and
standard treatment measures used previously and any newly-conducted evaluation and hazard reduction activities. The report shall include the information in 40 CFR 745.227(d)(11), and shall:
(i) Identify any lead-based paint hazards previously detected and discuss the effectiveness of any hazard reduction or standard treatment measures used, and list those for which no measures have been used.
(ii) Describe any new hazards found and present the owner with acceptable control options and their accompanying reevaluation schedules.
(iii) Identify when the next reevaluation, if any, must occur, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(c)
Response to the reevaluation
—(1)
Hazard reduction omission or failure found by a reevaluation.
The designated party shall respond in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(A) of this section to a report by the risk assessor of a hazard reduction control that has not been implemented or is failing, or that deteriorated lead-based paint is present.
(2)
Newly-identified lead-based paint hazard found by a reevaluation.
The designated party shall treat each:
(i) Dust-lead hazard or paint lead hazard by cleaning or hazard reduction measures, which are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.
(ii) Soil-lead hazard by hazard reduction measures, which are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.
[64 FR 50218, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34275, June 21, 2004]
Pt. 40

# PART 40—ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS FOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND ALTERATION OF PUBLICLY OWNED RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
Sec.
40.1
Purpose.
40.2
Definition of “residential structure”.
40.3
Applicability.
40.4
Standards.
40.5
[Reserved]
40.6
Records.
40.7
Availability of Accessibility Standards.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 4153.

# Source:
36 FR 24437, Dec. 22, 1971, unless otherwise noted.
§ 40.1
Purpose.
This part prescribes standards for the design, construction, and alteration of publicly owned residential structures to insure that physically handicapped persons will have ready access to, and use of, such structures.
§ 40.2
Definition of “residential structure”.
(a) As used in this part, the term
residential structure
means a residential structure (other than a privately owned residential structure and a residential structure on a military reservation):
(1) Constructed or altered by or on behalf of the United States;
(2) Leased in whole or in part by the United States after August 12, 1968, if constructed or altered in accordance with plans and specifications of the United States; or
(3) Financed in whole or in part by a grant or loan made by the United States after August 12, 1968, if such residential structure is subject to standards for design, construction, or alteration issued under authority of the law authorizing such grant or loan.
(b) As used in this part,
residential structure
includes the following:
(1) Any residential structure which, in whole or in part, is intended for occupancy by the physically handicapped or designed for occupancy by the elderly;
(2) All elevator residential structures;
(3) Any residential structure that contains 15 or more housing units, unless otherwise specifically prescribed by the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards.
(4) Nonresidential structures appurtenant to a residential structure covered under this part.
[36 FR 24437, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 49 FR 31620, Aug. 7, 1984; 83 FR 26361, June 7, 2018]
§ 40.3
Applicability.
(a) The standards prescribed in § 40.4 are applicable to residential structures designed after the effective date of this
part. If the design of a structure commenced prior to that date, the standards shall be made applicable to the maximum extent practicable, as determined by the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States concerned. If no design stage is involved in the construction or alteration of a residential structure, the standards of § 40.4 shall be applicable to construction or alteration for which bids are solicited after the effective date of this part.
(b) The standards prescribed in § 40.4 are not applicable to:
(1) Any portion of a residential structure or its grounds which need not, because of its intended use, be made accessible to, or usable by, the public or by physically handicapped persons;
(2) The alteration of an existing residential structure to the extent that the alteration does not involve work which is related to the standards of this part; or
(3) The alteration of an existing building, or of such portions thereof, to which application of the standards is not structurally feasible.
§ 40.4
Standards.
Residential structures subject to this part shall be designed, constructed or altered to ensure that physically handicapped persons have access to, and use of, these structures. This requirement is satisfied by using the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS).
[49 FR 31621, Aug. 7, 1984, as amended at 83 FR 26361, June 7, 2018]
§ 40.5
[Reserved]
§ 40.6
Records.
The administering agency's file on each contract, grant, or loan involving the design, construction, or alteration of a residential structure shall include appropriate documentation indicating: (a) That the standards prescribed in § 40.4 are applicable to and have been or will be incorporated in the residential structure, or (b) that the grant or loan has been or will be made subject to the requirement that the standards are applicable and will be incorporated in the residential structure. The file should also indicate any modification or waiver of the standards which has been issued by the Secretary of HUD.
§ 40.7
Availability of Accessibility Standards.
Copies of the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards are available from the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Room 5230, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410, telephone (202) 755-5404 (this is not a toll-free number). Hearing or speech-impaired individuals may call HUD's TDD number (202) 708-0113 or 1-800-877-8399 (Federal Information Relay Service TDD). (Other than the “800” number, these are not toll-free numbers.)
[61 FR 5204, Feb. 9, 1996]
Pt. 41

# PART 41—POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESSIBILITY BY THE PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED
Sec.
41.1
Applicability.
41.2
Definitions.
41.3
Assurance and declaration required.
41.4
Waiver or modification of standards.
41.5
Achieving compliance.
41.6
Matters involving the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.

# Authority:
Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended by Pub. L. 90-480, 42 U.S.C. 4151
et seq.

# Source:
44 FR 62806, Oct. 31, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 41.1
Applicability.
This part sets forth policies and procedures for the enforcement of standards and requirements for accessibility by the physically handicapped imposed:
(a) For nonresidential buildings or facilities by regulations issued by the General Services Administration at subchapter D of the Federal Property Management Regulations, subpart 101-19.6—Accommodations for the Physically Handicapped, or
(b) By regulation or contract under any other program of the Department, except a program subject only to standards or requirements at 24 CFR
part 8 imposed pursuant to section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
The policies and procedures of this part shall apply after the effective date of these regulations to all complaints received, and/or findings of noncompliance made, regarding buildings or facilities subject to such regulatory or contractural requirements.
§ 41.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term Secretary means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, or to the extent of any delegation of authority by the Secretary to act under this part, any other Department Official to whom authority has been delegated.
§ 41.3
Assurance and declaration required.
(a) Each Assistant Secretary shall, as a condition for approval of any contract or application for assistance under a program imposing standards and/or requirements for accessibility which are subject to this part, require an assurance of compliance with those standards and requirements. Such assurance shall be in a form acceptable to the Secretary.
(b) For each project covered under this part, except a project subject to Departmental examinations and inspections as set forth in § 41.5(a), the responsible Assistant Secretary shall require a declaration as to project drawings, specifications, and other construction documents. The declaration shall be signed by the licensed, or registered, architect or engineer, or by such other responsible official as designated by HUD, who has prepared such construction documents. The declaration shall affirm that the proposed project, to the best knowledge and belief of the declarer, conforms to applicable accessibility design standards and requirements. The declaration statement shall be in a form acceptable to the Secretary.
§ 41.4
Waiver or modification of standards.
(a) The applicability of standards and requirements for accessibility by the physically handicapped may be waived or modified on a case-by-case basis upon a written request from a recipient of a Departmental grant or loan or from a Departmental agency leasing a building or facility.
(b) For residential buildings or facilities, a waiver or modification may be granted only by the Secretary.
(c) Upon the recommendation of an Assistant Secretary, a waiver or modification for nonresidential buildings or facilities may be granted only by the Administrator, General Services Administration.
(d) No request for a waiver or modification shall be recommended for approval by an Assistant Secretary or approved by the Secretary unless the following criteria obtain:
(1) The granting of the waiver or modification is based upon findings of fact, and is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Architectural Barriers Act, and
(2) Application of the requirement or standard would adversely affect the purposes of the Departmental program under which the loan or grant is being provided or for which the building or facility is being leased.
(e) Requests for a waiver or modification shall be submitted to the appropriate Assistant Secretary for review. Each request shall include:
(1) The name and address of the requestor.
(2) The name and location of the involved building or facility.
(3) Any applicable plans, drawings, specifications or other descriptions of the building or facility.
(4) The standard provision or requirement from which the requestor seeks a waiver or modification.
(5) A description of the building or facility as to its accessibility for the physically handicapped and how the waiving or modification of a standard or requirement would affect that accessibility.
(6) A statement of the facts which establish that the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section would be satisfied.
(7) A description of the steps taken, or to be taken, to comply with standards and requirements for which a waiver or modification is not being requested.
(8) Such other information as the requestor or the responsible Assistant
Secretary deems appropriate or necessary.
(f) If the responsible Assistant Secretary finds that the criteria of paragraph (d) of this section are satisfied, then he or she shall submit the request along with his or her recommendations to the Secretary for action or for referral to the Administrator, General Services Administration for action. In reviewing request for waiver and modifications, the Secretary shall assure consistent Department policy regarding the removal of architectural barriers and accessibility by physically handicapped persons.
(g) All waivers and modifications granted pursuant to this part shall have only future effect on; and are limited to cases for which the request is made.
§ 41.5
Achieving compliance.
(a)
Examinations and inspections.
If, for any project, an Assistant Secretary requires Departmental architectural and engineering examinations of drawings and specifications or other construction documents or requires Departmental architectural and engineering inspections during or upon completion of construction, those examinations and inspections shall include a determination of compliance with standards and requirements for accessibility referenced in this part.
(b)
Periodic compliance reviews.
The Secretary, in consultation with the appropriate Assistant Secretary, shall conduct surveys and investigations as deemed appropriate to achieve compliance with standards or requirements subject to this part.
(c)
Complaints.
Any interested person who has reason to believe that there has been noncompliance with standards or requirements subject to this part, may, by himself or herself, or by a representative, file a written complaint with the responsible Department Official or with the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, Washington, DC 20201.
(d)
Investigations.
The Secretary shall, after consultation with the appropriate Assistant Secretary, make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review, report, complaint, or any other information indicates a possible failure to comply with standards or requirements subject to this part. The investigation should include a determination of the authority under which the standards or requirements were imposed and, where appropriate, a review of the records kept pursuant to 24 CFR 40.6; the circumstances under which the building of facility was designed, constructed or altered; and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether there has been noncompliance with this part.
(e)
Resolution of matters.
(1) If any examination, inspection, periodic compliance review, complaint, or investigation pursuant to this section indicates a failure to comply with the applicable standards or requirements, the Secretary shall attempt to gain voluntary compliance whenever possible.
(2) If it has been determined that voluntary compliance cannot be achieved, the Secretary shall refer the matter to the appropriate Assistant Secretary for action pursuant to his or her program authority regarding the residential structure or other building or facility under investigation, to achieve compliance with the requirements subject to this part. The Assistant Secretary shall report to the Secretary within 30 days of the date of such referral regarding the action taken and the schedule and means of achieving compliance, except that the Secretary may specify a shorter or longer reporting period, as deeded appropriate.
(f)
Disposition of unresolved complaints.
Unresolved complaints shall be referred to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board to be processed in accordance with 36 CFR part 1150. A complaint shall be deemed unresolved if it is not resolved within 90 days of the date of the filing of the complaint with the Department.
(g)
Compliance action by other individuals.
Individuals other than the Secretary may receive complaints and undertake other appropriate actions to achieve compliance with requirements subject to this part, so long as initial notification of such complaints or proposed actions is given both to the Secretary and the appropriate Assistant Secretary.
§ 41.6
Matters involving the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
(a)
Complaints.
With respect to any complaint referred to the responsible Department Official by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (A
TBCB), the procedures set forth in this part shall apply. In such a case, the Secretary shall coordinate all investigations and/or other compliance actions to assure that the Department resolves any architectural barriers deficiencies so as to respond to the A
TBCB within its required 60-day period set forth at 36 CFR 1150.41 for the informal resolution of complaints.
(b)
Citations.
The Office of General Counsel shall, with the assistance of the appropriate Assistant Secretary, respond to any citation issued by the A
TBCB to the Department alleging noncompliance with the standards issued pursuant to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended. The applicable procedures regarding such a citation are set forth at 36 CFR part 1150.
Pt. 42

# PART 42—DISPLACEMENT, RELOCATION ASSISTANCE, AND REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION FOR HUD AND HUD-ASSISTED PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
42.1
Applicable rules.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Requirements Under Section 104(d) of Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
42.301
Applicability.
42.305
Definitions.
42.325
Residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan.
42.350
Relocation assistance for displaced persons.
42.375
One-for-one replacement of lower-income dwelling units.
42.390
Appeals.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 4601, 5304, and 12705(b).

# Source:
61 FR 51757, Oct. 3, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 42.1
Applicable rules.
(a)
URA.
HUD-assisted programs and projects are subject to the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, 42 U.S.C. 4601 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601), and implementing regulations issued by the Department of Transportation at 49 CFR part 24.
(b)
Section 104(d).
In addition to the URA, the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG), and HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) programs are also subject to section 104(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(d)). The provisions applicable to these programs are set out in subpart C of this part.
(c)
Additional requirements.
Applicable program regulations may contain additional relocation provisions.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Requirements Under Section 104(d) of Housing and Community Development Act of 1974
§ 42.301
Applicability.
This subpart applies only to CDBG grants under 24 CFR part 570, subparts D, F, and I (Entitlement grants, HUD-Administered Small Cities, and State programs); grants under 24 CFR part 570, subpart G (Urban Development Action Grants), and Loan Guarantees under 24 CFR part 570, subpart M; and assistance to State and local governments under 24 CFR part 92 (HOME program).
§ 42.305
Definitions.
The terms
Fair Market Rent (FMR), HUD, Section 8,
and
Uniform Relocation Act (URA)
are defined in part 5 of this title. Otherwise, as used in this subpart:
Comparable replacement dwelling unit
means a dwelling unit that:
(1) Meets the criteria of 49 CFR 24.2(d)(1) through (6); and
(2) Is available at a monthly cost for rent plus estimated average monthly
utility costs that does not exceed the “Total Tenant Payment” determined under § 813.107 of this title, after taking into account any rental assistance the household would receive.
Conversion.
(1) This term means altering a housing unit so that it is:
(i) Used for nonhousing purposes;
(ii) Used for housing purposes, but no longer meets the definition of lower-income dwelling unit; or
(iii) Used as an emergency shelter.
(2) A housing unit that continues to be used for housing after completion of the project is not considered a “conversion” if, upon completion of the project, the unit is owned and occupied by a person who owned and occupied the unit before the project.
Displaced person
means a lower-income person who, in connection with an activity assisted under any program subject to this subpart, permanently moves from real property or permanently moves personal property from real property as a direct result of the demolition or conversion of a lower-income dwelling. For purposes of this definition, a permanent move includes a move made permanently and:
(1) After notice by the grantee to move from the property following initial submission to HUD of the consolidated plan required of entitlement grantees pursuant to § 570.302; of an application for assistance pursuant to §§ 570.426, 570.430, or 570.465 that is thereafter approved; or an application for loan assistance under § 570.701 that is thereafter approved;
(2) After notice by the property owner to move from the property, following the submission of a request for financial assistance by the property owner (or other person in control of the site) that is thereafter approved; or
(3) Before the dates described in this definition, if HUD or the grantee determine that the displacement was a direct result of conversion or demolition in connection with an activity subject to this subpart for which financial assistance has been requested and is thereafter approved.
HCD Act of 1974
means the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
).
Lower-income dwelling unit
means a dwelling unit with a market rent (including utility costs) that does not exceed the applicable Fair Market Rent (FMR) for existing housing established under 24 CFR part 888.
Lower-income person
means, as appropriate, a “low and moderate income person” as that term is defined in § 570.3 of this title, or a “low-income family” as that term is defined in § 92.2 of this title.
Recipient
means CDBG grantee, UDAG grantee, or the HOME participating jurisdiction.
Standard condition
and
substandard condition suitable for rehabilitation
have the meaning the recipient has established for those terms in its HUD-approved consolidated plan pursuant to 24 CFR part 91. In the case of a unit of general local government funded by a State, either the State's definitions for those terms or the definitions adopted by the unit of general local government for this purpose shall apply.
Vacant occupiable dwelling unit
means a vacant dwelling unit that is in a standard condition; a vacant dwelling unit that is in a substandard condition, but is suitable for rehabilitation; or a dwelling unit in any condition that has been occupied (except by a squatter) at any time within the period beginning 3 months before the date of execution of the agreement by the recipient covering the rehabilitation or demolition.
§ 42.325
Residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan.
(a)
Certification.
(1) As part of its consolidated plan under 24 CFR part 91, the recipient must certify that it has in effect and is following a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan.
(2) A unit of general local government receiving funds from the State must certify to the State that it has in effect and is following a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan, and that it will minimize displacement of persons as a result of assisted activities. The State may require the unit of general local government to follow the State's plan or permit it to develop its own plan. A unit of general local government that develops its own plan must adopt the plan and make it public.
(b)
Plan contents.
(1) The plan shall indicate the steps that will be taken consistent with other goals and objectives of the program, as provided in parts 92 and 570 of this title, to minimize the displacement of families and individuals from their homes and neighborhoods as a result of any assisted activities.
(2) The plan shall provide for relocation assistance in accordance with § 42.350.
(3) The plan shall provide one-for-one replacement units to the extent required by § 42.375.
§ 42.350
Relocation assistance for displaced persons.
A displaced person may choose to receive either assistance under the URA and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24 or assistance under section 104(d) of the HCD Act of 1974, including:
(a)
Advisory services.
Advisory services at the levels described in 49 CFR part 24. A displaced person must be advised of his or her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-19). If the comparable replacement dwelling to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, as defined in the recipient's consolidated plan, if applicable, the minority person must also be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas.
(b)
Moving expenses.
Payment for moving expenses at the levels described in 49 CFR part 24.
(c)
Security deposits and credit checks.
The reasonable and necessary cost of any security deposit required to rent the replacement dwelling unit, and for credit checks required to rent or purchase the replacement dwelling unit.
(d)
Interim living costs.
The recipient shall reimburse a person for actual reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred in connection with a displacement, including moving expenses and increased housing costs, if:
(1) The person must relocate temporarily because continued occupancy of the dwelling unit constitutes a substantial danger to the health or safety of the person or the public; or
(2) The person is displaced from a “lower-income dwelling unit,” none of the comparable replacement dwelling units to which the person has been referred qualifies as a lower-income dwelling unit, and a suitable lower-income dwelling unit is scheduled to become available in accordance with § 42.375.
(e)
Replacement housing assistance.
Persons are eligible to receive one of the following two forms of replacement housing assistance:
(1) Each person must be offered rental assistance equal to 60 times the amount necessary to reduce the monthly rent and estimated average monthly cost of utilities for a replacement dwelling (comparable replacement dwelling or decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwelling to which the person relocates, whichever costs less) to the “Total Tenant Payment,” as determined under part 813 of this title. All or a portion of this assistance may be offered through a voucher for rental assistance (if available) provided under Section 8. If a Section 8 voucher is provided to a person, the recipient must provide referrals to comparable replacement dwelling units where the owner is willing to participate in the Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance Existing Housing Program (see part 982 of this title). When provided, cash assistance will generally be in installments, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 3537c; or
(2) If the person purchases an interest in a housing cooperative or mutual housing association and occupies a decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the cooperative or association, the person may elect to receive a payment equal to the capitalized value of 60 times the amount that is obtained by subtracting the “Total Tenant Payment,” as determined under part 813 of this title, from the monthly rent and estimated average monthly cost of utilities at a comparable replacement dwelling unit. To compute the capitalized value, the installments shall be discounted at the rate of interest paid on passbook savings deposits by a federally insured financial institution conducting business within the recipient's jurisdiction. To the extent necessary to minimize hardship to the household, the recipient
shall, subject to appropriate safeguards, issue a payment in advance of the purchase of the interest in the housing cooperative or mutual housing association.
[61 FR 51757, Oct. 3, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]
§ 42.375
One-for-one replacement of lower-income dwelling units.
(a)
Units that must be replaced.
All occupied and vacant occupiable lower-income dwelling units that are demolished or converted to a use other than as lower-income dwelling units in connection with an assisted activity must be replaced with comparable lower-income dwelling units.
(b)
Acceptable replacement units.
Replacement lower-income dwelling units may be provided by any government agency or private developer and must meet the following requirements:
(1) The units must be located within the recipient's jurisdiction. To the extent feasible and consistent with other statutory priorities, the units shall be located within the same neighborhood as the units replaced.
(2) The units must be sufficient in number and size to house no fewer than the number of occupants who could have been housed in the units that are demolished or converted. The number of occupants who could have been housed in units shall be determined in accordance with applicable local housing occupancy codes. The recipient may not replace those units with smaller units (e.g., a 2-bedroom unit with two 1-bedroom units), unless the recipient has provided the information required under paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(3) The units must be provided in standard condition. Replacement lower-income dwelling units may include units that have been raised to standard from substandard condition if:
(i) No person was displaced from the unit (see definition of “displaced person” in § 42.305); and
(ii) The unit was vacant for at least 3 months before execution of the agreement between the recipient and the property owner.
(4) The units must initially be made available for occupancy at any time during the period beginning 1 year before the recipient makes public the information required under paragraph (d) of this section and ending 3 years after the commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation related to the conversion.
(5) The units must be designed to remain lower-income dwelling units for at least 10 years from the date of initial occupancy. Replacement lower-income dwelling units may include, but are not limited to, public housing or existing housing receiving Section 8 project-based assistance.
(c)
Preliminary information to be made public.
Before the recipient enters into a contract committing it to provide funds under programs covered by this subpart for any activity that will directly result in the demolition of lower-income dwelling units or the conversion of lower-income dwelling units to another use, the recipient must make public, and submit in writing to the HUD field office (or State, in the case of a unit of general local government funded by the State), the following information:
(1) A description of the proposed assisted activity;
(2) The location on a map and number of dwelling units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a use other than for lower-income dwelling units as a direct result of the assisted activity;
(3) A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the demolition or conversion;
(4) The location on a map and the number of dwelling units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement dwelling units. If such data are not available at the time of the general submission, the submission shall identify the general location on an area map and the approximate number of dwelling units by size, and information identifying the specific location and number of dwelling units by size shall be submitted and disclosed to the public as soon as it is available;
(5) The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of replacement dwelling units;
(6) The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will remain a lower-income dwelling unit for at
least 10 years from the date of initial occupancy; and
(7) Information demonstrating that any proposed replacement of dwelling units with smaller dwelling units (e.g., a 2-bedroom unit with two 1-bedroom units) is consistent with the needs assessment contained in its HUD-approved consolidated plan. A unit of general local government funded by the State that is not required to submit a consolidated plan to HUD must make public information demonstrating that the proposed replacement is consistent with the housing needs of lower-income households in the jurisdiction.
(d)
Replacement not required.
(1) In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 5304(d)(3), the one-for-one replacement requirement of this section does not apply to the extent the HUD field office determines, based upon objective data, that there is an adequate supply of vacant lower-income dwelling units in standard condition available on a nondiscriminatory basis within the area.
(2) The recipient must submit directly to the HUD field office the request for determination that the one-for-one replacement requirement does not apply. Simultaneously with the submission of the request, the recipient must make the submission public and inform interested persons that they have 30 days from the date of submission to provide to HUD additional information supporting or opposing the request.
(3) A unit of general local government funded by the State must submit the request for determination under this paragraph to the State. Simultaneously with the submission of the request, the unit of general local government must make the submission public and inform interested persons that they have 30 days from the date of submission to provide to the State additional information supporting or opposing the request. If the State, after considering the submission and the additional data, agrees with the request, the State must provide its recommendation with supporting information to the field office.
§ 42.390
Appeals.
A person who disagrees with the recipient's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a “displaced person,” or with the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the recipient. A person who is dissatisfied with the recipient's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD field office (or to the State in the case of a unit of general local government funded by the State). If the full relief is not granted, the recipient shall advise the person of his or her right to seek judicial review.
PARTS 43-45 [RESERVED]
Pt. 50

# PART 50—PROTECTION AND ENHANCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY

# Subpart A—General: Federal Laws and Authorities
Sec.
50.1
Purpose, authority, and applicability.
50.2
Terms and abbreviations.
50.3
Environmental policy.
50.4
Related Federal laws and authorities.

# Subpart B—General Policy: Responsibilities and Program Coverage
50.10
Basic environmental responsibility.
50.11
Responsibility of the HUD approving official.

# Subpart C—General Policy: Decision Points
50.16
Decision points for policy actions.
50.17
Decision points for projects.

# Subpart D—General Policy: Environmental Review Procedures
50.18
General.
50.19
Categorical exclusions not subject to the Federal laws and authorities cited in § 50.4.
50.20
Categorical exclusions subject to the Federal laws and authorities cited in § 50.4.
50.21
Aggregation.
50.22
Environmental management and monitoring.
50.23
Public participation.
50.24
HUD review of another agency's EIS.

# Subpart E—Environmental Assessments and Related Reviews
50.31
The EA.
50.32
Responsibility for environmental processing.
50.33
Action resulting from the assessment.
50.34
Time delays for exceptional circumstances.
50.35
Use of prior environmental assessments.
50.36
Updating of environmental reviews.

# Subpart F—Environmental Impact Statements
50.41
EIS policy.
50.42
Cases when an EIS is required.
50.43
Emergencies.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 4321-4336e; and Executive Order 11991, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 123.

# Source:
61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General: Federal Laws and Authorities
§ 50.1
Purpose, authority, and applicability.
(a) This part implements the policies of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and other environmental requirements (as specified in § 50.4).
(b) NEPA (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
), establishes national policy, goals and procedures for protecting, restoring and enhancing environmental quality. NEPA is implemented by Executive Order 11514 of March 5, 1970, (3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 902) as amended by Executive Order 11991 of May 24, 1977, (3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 123) and by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) Regulations, 40 CFR parts 1500-1508.
(c) The regulations issued by CEQ at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508 establish the basic procedural requirements for compliance with NEPA. These procedures are to be followed by all Federal agencies and are incorporated by reference into this part. This part, therefore, provides supplemental instructions to reflect the particular nature of HUD programs, and is to be used in tandem with 40 CFR parts 1500-1508 and regulations that implement authorities cited at § 50.4.
(d) These regulations apply to all HUD policy actions (as defined in § 50.16), and to all HUD project actions (see § 50.2(a)(2)). Also, they apply to projects and activities carried out by recipients subject to environmental policy and procedures of 24 CFR part 58, when the recipient that is regulated under 24 CFR part 58 claims the lack of legal capacity to assume the Secretary's environmental review responsibilities and the claim is approved by HUD or when HUD determines to conduct an environmental review itself in place of a nonrecipient responsible entity. For programs, activities or actions not specifically identified or when there are questions regarding the applicability of this part, the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development shall be consulted.
§ 50.2
Terms and abbreviations.
(a) The definitions for most of the key terms or phrases contained in this part appear in 40 CFR part 1508 and in the authorities cited in § 50.4.
The following definitions also apply to this part:
Environmental review
means a process for complying with NEPA (through an EA or EIS) and/or with the laws and authorities cited in § 50.4.
HUD approving official
means the HUD official authorized to make the approval decision for any proposed policy or project subject to this part.
Project
means an activity, or a group of integrally-related activities, undertaken directly by HUD or proposed for HUD assistance or insurance.
(b) The following abbreviations are used throughout this part:
AS/CPD
—Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development.
CEQ
—Council on Environmental Quality
EA
—Environmental Assessment
EIS
—Environmental Impact Statement
FONSI
—Finding of No Significant Impact
HUD
—Department of Housing and Urban Development
NEPA
—National Environmental Policy Act
NOI/EIS
—Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement
§ 50.3
Environmental policy.
(a) It is the policy of the Department to reject proposals which have significant adverse environmental impacts
and to encourage the modification of projects in order to enhance environmental quality and minimize environmental harm.
(b) The HUD approving official shall consider environmental and other Departmental objectives in the decisionmaking process.
(c) When EA's or EIS's or reviews under § 50.4 reveal conditions or safeguards that should be implemented once a proposal is approved in order to protect and enhance environmental quality or minimize adverse environmental impacts, such conditions or safeguards must be included in agreements or other relevant documents.
(d) A systematic, interdisciplinary approach shall be used to assure the integrated use of the natural and social sciences and the environmental design arts in making decisions.
(e) Environmental impacts shall be evaluated on as comprehensive a scale as is practicable.
(f) HUD offices shall begin the environmental review process at the earliest possible time so that potential conflicts between program procedures and environmental requirements are identified at an early stage.
(g) Applicants for HUD assistance shall be advised of environmental requirements and consultation with governmental agencies and individuals shall take place at the earliest time feasible.
(h) For HUD grant programs in which the funding approval for an applicant's program must occur before the applicant's selection of properties, the application shall contain an
assurance
that the applicant agrees to assist HUD to comply with this part and that the applicant shall:
(1) Supply HUD with all available, relevant information necessary for HUD to perform for each property any environmental review required by this part;
(2) Carry out mitigating measures required by HUD or select alternate eligible property; and
(3) Not acquire, rehabilitate, convert, lease, repair or construct property, nor commit or expend HUD or local funds for these program activities with respect to any eligible property, until HUD approval of the property is received.
(i)(1) It is HUD policy that all property proposed for use in HUD programs be free of hazardous materials, contamination, toxic chemicals and gasses, and radioactive substances, where a hazard could affect the health and safety of occupants or conflict with the intended utilization of the property.
(2) HUD environmental review of multifamily and non-residential properties shall include evaluation of previous uses of the site and other evidence of contamination on or near the site, to assure that occupants of proposed sites are not adversely affected by the hazards listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(3) Particular attention should be given to any proposed site on or in the general proximity of such areas as dumps, landfills, industrial sites or other locations that contain hazardous wastes.
(4) HUD shall require the use of current techniques by qualified professionals to undertake investigations determined necessary.
§ 50.4
Related Federal laws and authorities.
HUD and/or applicants must comply, where applicable, with all environmental requirements, guidelines and statutory obligations under the following authorities and HUD standards:
(a)
Historic properties.
(1) The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
), as amended.
(2) Executive Order 11593, Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment, May 13, 1971 (3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 559).
(3) The Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974, which amends the Reservoir Salvage Act of 1960 (16 U.S.C. 469
et seq.
).
(4) Procedures for the Protection of Historic and Cultural Properties (Advisory Council on Historic Preservation—36 CFR part 800).
(b)
Flood insurance, floodplain management and wetland protection.
(1) Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4001-4128) and the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994 (Pub.L. 103-325, 108 Stat. 2160).
(2) HUD procedure for the implementation of Executive Order 11988 (Floodplain Management), as amended by Executive Order 13690, February 4, 2015 (3 CFR, 2016 Comp., p. 268) —24 CFR part 55, Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands.
(3) HUD procedure for the implementation of Executive Order 11990 (Protection of Wetlands), (3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 121)—24 CFR part 55, Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands.
(c)
Coastal areas protection and management.
(1) The Coastal Barrier Resources Act, as amended by the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
).
(2) The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
), as amended.
(d)
Sole source aquifers.
The Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 201, 300
et seq.,
and 21 U.S.C. 349), as amended. (See 40 CFR part 149.)
(e)
Endangered species.
The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
), as amended. (See 50 CFR part 402.)
(f)
Wild and scenic rivers.
The Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C 1271
et seq.
), as amended.
(g)
Water quality.
The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
), and later enactments.
(h)
Air quality.
The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
), as amended. (See 40 CFR parts 6, 51, and 93.)
(i)
Solid waste management.
(1) The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
), and later enactments.
(2) The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.
), as amended.
(j)
Farmlands protection.
The Farmland Protection Policy Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 4201
et seq.
), as amended. (See 7 CFR part 658.)
(k)
HUD environmental standards.
Applicable criteria and standards specified in HUD environmental regulations (24 CFR part 51).
(l)
Environmental justice.
Executive Order 12898—Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations (3 CFR, 1994 Comp., p. 859).
[61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 78 FR 68728, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30903, Apr. 23, 2024]

# Subpart B—General Policy: Responsibilities and Program Coverage
§ 50.10
Basic environmental responsibility.
(a) It is the responsibility of all Assistant Secretaries, the General Counsel, and the HUD approving official to assure that the requirements of this part are implemented.
(b) The Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development (A/S CPD), represented by the Office of Community Viability, whose Director shall serve as the Departmental Environmental Clearance Officer (DECO), is assigned the overall Departmental responsibility for environmental policies and procedures for compliance with NEPA and the related laws and authorities. To the extent permitted by applicable laws and the CEQ regulations, the A/S CPD shall approve waivers and exceptions or establish criteria for exceptions from the requirements of this part.
§ 50.11
Responsibility of the HUD approving official.
(a) The HUD approving official shall make an independent evaluation of the environmental issues, take responsibility for the scope and content of the compliance finding, EA or EIS, and make the environmental finding, where applicable. (Also, see § 50.32.)
(b) Copies of environmental reviews and findings shall be maintained in the project file for projects, in the rules docket files for
Federal Register
publications, and in program files for non-
Federal Register
policy documents.

# Subpart C—General Policy: Decision Points
§ 50.16
Decision points for policy actions.
Either an EA and FONSI or an EIS on all policy actions not meeting the
criteria of § 50.19 shall be completed prior to the approval action. Policy actions include all proposed
Federal Register
policy documents and other policy-related Federal actions (40 CFR 1508.18). The decision as to whether a proposed policy action is categorically excluded from an EA shall be made by the Program Environmental Clearance Officer (PECO) in Headquarters as early as possible. Where the PECO has any doubt as to whether a proposed action qualifies for exclusion, the PECO shall request a determination by the AS/CPD. The EA and FONSI may be combined into a single document.
§ 50.17
Decision points for projects.
Either an EA and FONSI or an EIS for individual projects shall be completed before the applicable program decision points below for projects not meeting the criteria of § 50.20. Compliance with applicable authorities cited in § 50.4 shall be completed before the applicable program decision points below unless the project meets the criteria for exclusion under § 50.19.
(a)
New Construction.
(1) Project mortgage insurance or other financial assistance for multifamily housing projects (including sections 202 and 811), nursing homes, hospitals, group practice facilities and manufactured home parks: Issuance of Site Appraisal and Market Analysis (SAMA) Letter or initial equivalent indication of HUD approval of a specific site;
(2)
Public Housing: HUD approval of the proposal.
(3)
Loan Guarantee Recovery Fund Program (24 CFR part 573).
HUD issuance of a letter of commitment or initial equivalent indication of HUD approval.
(b)
Rehabilitation projects.
Use the decision points under “new construction” for HUD programs cited in paragraph (a) of this section; otherwise the decision point is the HUD project approval.
(c)
Public housing modernization programs.
HUD approval of the modernization grants.
(d)
Property Disposition.
Multifamily structures, college housing, nursing homes, manufactured homes and parks, group practice facilities, vacant land and one to four family structures: HUD approval of the Disposition Program.
(e)
HUD programs subject to 24 CFR part 58.
For cases in which HUD exercises environmental responsibility under this part where a recipient lacks legal capacity to do so or HUD determines to do so in place of a nonrecipient responsible entity under 24 CFR part 58 (see § 50.1(d)), the decision point is: HUD's execution of an agreement or contract, whichever comes first, or in the case of Section 8 Project-Based Voucher Assistance and Moderate Rehabilitation, HUD notification to the Public Housing Agency to proceed with execution of an Agreement to Enter into Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract.
(f)
Section 50.3(h).
Notwithstanding the other paragraphs of this section, the decision point for grant programs in which HUD approval of funding for an applicant's program must occur before the applicant's selection of properties for use in its program is: HUD approval of specific properties.
(g)
Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act Programs.
Where the recipients are nonprofit organizations or governmental entities with special or limited purpose powers, the decision point is: HUD project approval.
(h)
Programs not specifically covered in this section.
Consult with the AS/CPD for decision points.
[61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]

# Subpart D—General Policy: Environmental Review Procedures
§ 50.18
General.
(a) The Departmental Environmental Clearance Officer (DECO) shall establish a prescribed format to be used to document compliance with NEPA and the Federal laws and authorities cited in § 50.4. The DECO may prescribe alternative formats as necessary to meet specific program needs.
(b) HUD may, from time to time, complete programmatic reviews that further avoid the necessity of complying with the laws and authorities in § 50.4 on a property-by-property basis.
[61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 49228, Aug. 20, 2014]
§ 50.19
Categorical exclusions not subject to the Federal laws and authorities cited in § 50.4.
(a)
General.
The activities and related approvals of policy documents listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are not subject to the individual compliance requirements of the Federal laws and authorities cited in § 50.4, unless otherwise indicated below. These activities and approvals of policy documents are also categorically excluded from the EA required by NEPA except in extraordinary circumstances (§ 50.20(b)). HUD approval or implementation of these categories of activities and policy documents does not require environmental review, because they do not alter physical conditions in a manner or to an extent that would require review under NEPA or the other laws and authorities cited at § 50.4.
(b)
Activities.
(1) Environmental and other studies, resource identification and the development of plans and strategies.
(2) Information and financial advisory services.
(3) Administrative and management expenses.
(4) Public services that will not have a physical impact or result in any physical changes, including but not limited to services concerned with employment, crime prevention, child care, health, drug abuse, education, counseling, energy conservation and welfare or recreational needs.
(5) Inspections and testing of properties for hazards or defects.
(6) Purchase of insurance.
(7) Purchase of tools.
(8) Engineering or design costs.
(9) Technical assistance and training.
(10) Assistance for temporary or permanent improvements that do not alter environmental conditions and are limited to protection, repair or restoration activities necessary only to control or arrest the effects from disasters or imminent threats to public safety including those resulting from physical deterioration.
(11) Tenant-based rental assistance.
(12) Supportive services including, but not limited to, health care, housing services, permanent housing placement, day care, nutritional services, short-term payments for rent/mortgage/utility costs, and assistance in gaining access to local, State, and Federal government benefits and services.
(13) Operating costs including maintenance, security, operation, utilities, furnishings, equipment, supplies, staff training and recruitment and other incidental costs; however, in the case of equipment, compliance with § 50.4(b)(1) is required.
(14) Economic development activities, including but not limited to, equipment purchase, inventory financing, interest subsidy, operating expenses and similar costs not associated with construction or physical expansion of existing facilities; however, in the case of equipment purchase, compliance with § 50.4(b)(1) is required.
(15) Activities to assist homebuyers to purchase existing dwelling units or dwelling units under construction, including closing costs and downpayment assistance, interest buydowns, and similar activities that result in the transfer of title.
(16) Housing pre-development costs including legal, consulting, developer and other costs related to site options, project financing, administrative costs and fees for loan commitments, zoning approvals, and other related activities which do not have a physical impact.
(17) HUD's insurance of one-to-four family mortgages under the Direct Endorsement program, the insurance of one-to-four family mortgages under the Lender Insurance program, and HUD's guarantee of loans for one-to-four family dwellings under the Direct Guarantee procedure for the Indian Housing loan guarantee program, without any HUD review or approval before the completion of construction or rehabilitation and the loan closing; and HUD's acceptance for insurance of loans insured under Title I of the National Housing Act; however, compliance with §§ 50.4(b)(1) and (c)(1) and 24 CFR 51.303(a)(3) is required.
(18) HUD's endorsement of one-to-four family mortgage insurance for proposed construction under Improved Area processing; however, the Appraiser/Review Appraiser Checksheet (Form HUD-54891) must be completed.
(19) Activities of the Government National Mortgage Association under
Title III of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1716
et seq.
).
(20) Activities under the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
).
(21) Refinancing of HUD-insured mortgages that will not allow new construction or rehabilitation, nor result in any physical impacts or changes except for routine maintenance; however, compliance with § 50.4(b)(1) is required.
(22) Approval of the sale of a HUD-held mortgage.
(23) Approval of the foreclosure sale of a property with a HUD-held mortgage; however, appropriate restrictions will be imposed to protect historic properties.
(24) HUD guarantees under the Loan Guarantee Recovery Fund Program (24 CFR part 573) of loans that refinance existing loans and mortgages, where any new construction or rehabilitation financed by the existing loan or mortgage has been completed prior to the filing of an application under the program, and the refinancing will not allow further construction or rehabilitation, nor result in any physical impacts or changes except for routine maintenance; however, compliance with §§ 50.4 (b)(1) and (c)(1) and 51.303(a) is required.
(c)
Approval of policy documents.
(1) Approval of rules and notices proposed for publication in the
Federal Register
or other policy documents that do not:
(i) Direct, provide for assistance or loan and mortgage insurance for, or otherwise govern or regulate, real property acquisition, disposition, leasing (other than tenant-based rental assistance), rehabilitation, alteration, demolition, or new construction; or
(ii) Establish, revise, or provide for standards for construction or construction materials, manufactured housing, or occupancy.
(2) Approval of policy documents that amend an existing document where the existing document as a whole would not fall within an exclusion in this paragraph (c) but the amendment by itself would do so;
(3) Approval of policy documents that set out fair housing or nondiscrimination standards or enforcement procedures or provide for assistance in promoting or enforcing fair housing or nondiscrimination;
(4) Approval of handbooks, notices and other documents that provide operating instructions and procedures in connection with activities under a
Federal Register
document that has previously been subject to a required environmental review.
(5) Approval of a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) that provides funding under, and does not alter any environmental requirements of, a regulation or program guideline that was previously published in the
Federal Register,
provided that
(i) The NOFA specifically refers to the environmental review provisions of the regulation or guideline; or
(ii) The regulation or guideline contains no environmental review provisions because it concerns only activities listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(6) Statutorily required and/or discretionary establishment and review of interest rates, loan limits, building cost limits, prototype costs, fair market rent schedules, HUD-determined prevailing wage rates, income limits and exclusions with regard to eligibility for or calculation of HUD housing assistance or rental assistance, and similar rate and cost determinations and related external administrative or fiscal requirements or procedures which do not constitute a development decision that affects the physical condition of specific project areas or building sites.
[61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 15802, Apr. 2, 1997; 63 FR 48990, Sept. 11, 1998; 68 FR 56127, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 50.20
Categorical exclusions subject to the Federal laws and authorities cited in § 50.4.
(a) The following actions, activities, and programs are categorically excluded from the NEPA requirements for further review in an Environmental Assessment or an Environmental Impact Statement as set forth in this part. They are not excluded from individual compliance requirements of other environmental statutes, Executive orders, and HUD standards cited in § 50.4, where appropriate. Where the responsible official determines that any proposed action identified below may
have an environmental effect because of extraordinary circumstances (40 CFR 1508.4), the requirements for further review under NEPA shall apply (see paragraph (b) of this section).
(1) Special projects directed to the removal of material and architectural barriers that restrict the mobility of and accessibility to elderly and persons with disabilities.
(2) Rehabilitation of buildings and improvements when the following conditions are met:
(i) In the case of a building for residential use (with one to four units), the density is not increased beyond four units and the land use is not changed;
(ii) In the case of multifamily residential buildings:
(A) Unit density is not changed more than 20 percent;
(B) The project does not involve changes in land use from residential to non-residential; and
(C) The estimated cost of rehabilitation is less than 75 percent of the total estimated cost of replacement after rehabilitation.
(iii) In the case of non-residential structures, including commercial, industrial, and public buildings:
(A) The facilities and improvements are in place and will not be changed in size nor capacity by more than 20 percent; and
(B) The activity does not involve a change in land use, such as from non-residential to residential, commercial to industrial, or from one industrial use to another.
(3)(i) An individual action on up to four dwelling units where there is a maximum of four units on any one site. The units can be four one-unit buildings or one four-unit building or any combination in between; or
(ii) An individual action on a project of five or more housing units developed on scattered sites when the sites are more than 2,000 feet apart and there are not more than four housing units on any one site.
(iii) Paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section do not apply to rehabilitation of a building for residential use (with one to four units) (see paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section).
(4) Acquisition (including leasing) or disposition of, or equity loans on an existing structure, or acquisition (including leasing) of vacant land provided that the structure or land acquired, financed, or disposed of will be retained for the same use.
(5) Purchased or refinanced housing and medical facilities under section 223(f) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715n).
(6) Mortgage prepayments or plans of action (including incentives) under 24 CFR part 248.
(b) For categorical exclusions having the potential for significant impact because of extraordinary circumstances, HUD must prepare an EA in accordance with subpart E. If it is evident without preparing an EA that an EIS is required pursuant to § 50.42, HUD should proceed directly to the preparation of an EIS in accordance with subpart F.
[61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56127, Sept. 29, 2003; 79 FR 49229, Aug. 20, 2014; 89 FR 30903, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 50.21
Aggregation.
Activities which are geographically related and are logical parts of a composite of contemplated HUD projects shall be evaluated together.
§ 50.22
Environmental management and monitoring.
An Environmental Management and Monitoring Program shall be established prior to project approval when it is deemed necessary by the HUD approving official. The program shall be part of the approval document and must:
(a) Be concurred in by the Field Environmental Clearance Officer (FECO) (in the absence of a FECO, by the Program Environmental Clearance Officer in Headquarters) and any cooperating agencies;
(b) Contain specific standards, safeguards and commitments to be completed during project implementation;
(c) Identify the staff who will be responsible for the post-approval inspection; and
(d) Specify the time periods for conducting the evaluation and monitoring the applicant's compliance with the project agreements.
§ 50.23
Public participation.
HUD shall inform the affected public about NEPA-related hearings, public meetings, and the availability of environmental documents (see 40 CFR 1506.6(b)) in accordance with this section. Where project actions result in a FONSI, the FONSI will be available in the project file. The local HUD field office may be contacted by persons who wish to review the FONSI. In all cases, HUD shall mail notices to those who have requested them. Additional efforts for involving the public in specific notice or compliance requirements shall be made in accord with the implementing procedures of the laws and authorities cited in § 50.4. Notices pertaining to an EIS or an amendment to an EIS or a FONSI subject to § 50.34 shall be given to the public in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(a) A NOI/EIS shall be forwarded to the AS/CPD to the attention of the Departmental Environmental Clearance Officer for publication in the
Federal Register.
(b) Notices will be bilingual if the affected public includes a significant portion of non-English speaking persons and will identify a date when the official public involvement element of the proposed action is to be completed and HUD internal processing is to continue.
(c) All required notices shall be published in an appropriate local printed news medium or on an appropriate government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency. The required notices shall be sent to individuals and groups known to be interested in the proposed action.
(d) All notices shall inform the public where additional information may be obtained.
[61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 30903, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 50.24
HUD review of another agency's EIS.
Where another agency's EIS is referred to the HUD Field Office in whose jurisdiction the project is located, the Field Environmental Clearance Officer shall determine whether HUD has an interest in the EIS and, if so, will review and comment. Any EIS received from another Federal agency requesting comment on legislative proposals, regulations, or other policy documents shall be sent to the AS/CPD for comment, and the AS/CPD shall provide the General Counsel the opportunity for comment.

# Subpart E—Environmental Assessments and Related Reviews
§ 50.31
The EA.
(a) The Departmental Environmental Clearance Officer (DECO) shall establish a prescribed format used for the environmental analysis and documentation of projects and activities under subpart E. The DECO may prescribe alternative formats as necessary to meet specific program needs.
(b) The program representative shall obtain interdisciplinary assistance from professional experts and other HUD staff as needed. Additional information may also be requested of the sponsor/applicant. HUD is responsible for assessing and documenting the extent of the environmental impact.
[61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 49229, Aug. 20, 2014]
§ 50.32
Responsibility for environmental processing.
The program staff in the HUD office responsible for processing the project application or recommending a policy action is responsible for conducting the compliance finding, EA, or EIS. The collection of data and studies as part of the information contained in the environmental review may be done by an applicant or the applicant's contractor. The HUD program staff may use any information supplied by the applicant or contractor, provided HUD independently evaluates the information, will be responsible for its accuracy, supplements the information, if necessary, to conform to the requirements of this part, and prepares the environmental finding. Assessments for projects over 200 lots/dwelling units or beds shall be sent to the Field Environmental Clearance Officer (FECO) or, in the absence
of a FECO, to the Program Environmental Clearance Officer in Headquarters for review and comment.
§ 50.33
Action resulting from the assessment.
(a) A proposal may be accepted without modifications if the EA indicates that the proposal will not significantly (see 40 CFR 1508.27) affect the quality of the human environment and a FONSI is prepared.
(b) A proposal may be accepted with modifications provided that:
(1) Changes have been made that would reduce adverse environmental impact to acceptable and insignificant levels; and
(2) An Environmental Management and Monitoring Program is developed in accordance with § 50.22 when it is deemed necessary by the HUD approving official.
(c) A proposal should be rejected if significant and unavoidable adverse environmental impacts would still exist after modifications have been made to the proposal and an EIS is not prepared.
(d) A proposal (if not rejected) shall require an EIS if the EA indicates that significant environmental impacts would result.
§ 50.34
Time delays for exceptional circumstances.
(a) Under the circumstances described in this section, the FONSI must be made available for public review for 30 calendar days before a final decision is made whether to prepare an EIS and before the HUD action is taken. The circumstances are:
(1) When the proposed action is, or is closely similar to, one which normally requires the preparation of an EIS pursuant to § 50.42(b) but it is determined, as a result of an EA or in the course of preparation of a draft EIS, that the proposed action will not have a significant impact on the human environment; or
(2) When the nature of the proposed action is without precedent and does not appear to require more than an assessment.
(b) In such cases, the FONSI must be concurred in by the AS/CPD and the Program Environmental Clearance Officer. Notice of the availability of the FONSI shall be given to the public in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (d) of § 50.23.
§ 50.35
Use of prior environmental assessments.
When other Federal, State, or local agencies have prepared an EA or other environmental analysis for a proposed HUD project, these documents should be requested and used to the extent possible. HUD must, however, conduct the environmental analysis and prepare the EA and be responsible for the required environmental finding.
§ 50.36
Updating of environmental reviews.
The environmental review must be re-evaluated and updated when the basis for the original environmental or compliance findings is affected by a major change requiring HUD approval in the nature, magnitude or extent of a project and the project is not yet complete. A change only in the amount of financing or mortgage insurance involved does not normally require the environmental review to be re-evaluated or updated.

# Subpart F—Environmental Impact Statements
§ 50.41
EIS policy.
EIS's will be prepared and considered in program determinations pursuant to the general environmental policy stated in § 50.3 and 40 CFR 1505.2 (b) and (c).
§ 50.42
Cases when an EIS is required.
(a) An EIS is required if the proposal is determined to have a significant impact on the human environment pursuant to subpart E.
(b) An EIS will normally be required if the proposal:
(1) Would provide a site or sites for hospitals or nursing homes containing a total of 2,500 or more beds; or
(2) Would remove, demolish, convert, or substantially rehabilitate 2,500 or more existing housing units (but not including rehabilitation projects categorically excluded under § 50.20), or which would result in the construction or installation of 2,500 or more housing
units, or which would provide sites for 2,500 or more housing units.
(c) When the environmental concerns of one or more Federal authorities cited in § 50.4 will be affected by the proposal, the cumulative impact of all such effects should be assessed to determine whether an EIS is required. Where all of the affected authorities provide alternative procedures for resolution, those procedures should be used in lieu of an EIS.
§ 50.43
Emergencies.
In cases of national emergency and disasters or cases of imminent threat to health and safety or other emergency which require the taking of an action with significant environmental impact, the provisions of 40 CFR 1506.11 and of any applicable § 50.4 authorities which provide for emergencies shall apply.
Pt. 51

# PART 51—ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA AND STANDARDS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
51.1
Purpose.
51.2
Authority.
51.3
Responsibilities.
51.4
Program coverage.

# Subpart B—Noise Abatement and Control
51.100
Purpose and authority.
51.101
General policy.
51.102
Responsibilities.
51.103
Criteria and standards.
51.104
Special requirements.
51.105
Exceptions.
51.106
Implementation.
Appendix I to Subpart B of Part 51—Definition of Acoustical Quantities

# Subpart C—Siting of HUD-Assisted Projects Near Hazardous Operations Handling Conventional Fuels or Chemicals of an Explosive or Flammable Nature
51.200
Purpose.
51.201
Definitions.
51.202
Approval of HUD-assisted projects.
51.203
Safety standards.
51.204
HUD-assisted hazardous facilities.
51.205
Mitigating measures.
51.206
Implementation.
51.207
Special circumstances.
51.208
Reservation of administrative and legal rights.
Appendix I to Subpart C of Part 51—Specific Hazardous Substances
Appendix II to Subpart C of Part 51—Development of Standards; Calculation Methods

# Subpart D—Siting of HUD Assisted Projects in Runway Clear Zones at Civil Airports and Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones at Military Airfields
51.300
Purpose.
51.301
Definitions.
51.302
Coverage.
51.303
General policy.
51.304
Responsibilities.
51.305
Implementation.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 51.1
Purpose.
The Department of Housing and Urban Development is providing program Assistant Secretaries and administrators and field offices with environmental standards, criteria and guidelines for determining project acceptability and necessary mitigating measures to insure that activities assisted by the Department achieve the goal of a suitable living environment.
§ 51.2
Authority.
This part implements the Department's responsibilities under: The National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
); sec. 2 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1441); secs. 2 and 7(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3531 and 3535(d)); the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321); and the other statutes that are referred to in this part.
[61 FR 13333, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.3
Responsibilities.
The Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development is responsible for administering HUD's environmental criteria and standards as set forth in this part. The Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development may be assisted by HUD officials in implementing the responsibilities established by this part. HUD
will identify these HUD officials and their specific responsibilities through
Federal Register
notice.
[61 FR 13333, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.4
Program coverage.
Environmental standards shall apply to all HUD actions except where special provisions and exemptions are contained in each subpart.

# Subpart B—Noise Abatement and Control
§ 51.100
Purpose and authority.
(a) It is the purpose of this subpart B to:
(1) Call attention to the threat of noise pollution;
(2) Encourage the control of noise at its source in cooperation with other Federal departments and agencies;
(3) Encourage land use patterns for housing and other noise sensitive urban needs that will provide a suitable separation between them and major noise sources;
(4) Generally prohibit HUD support for new construction of noise sensitive uses on sites having unacceptable noise exposure;
(5) Provide policy on the use of structural and other noise attenuation measures where needed; and
(6) Provide policy to guide implementation of various HUD programs.
(b)
Authority.
Specific authorities for noise abatement and control are contained in the Noise Control Act of 1972, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4901
et seq.
); and the General Services Administration, Federal Management Circular 75-2;
Compatible Land Uses at Federal Airfields.
[44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 13333, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.101
General policy.
(a) It is HUD's general policy to provide minimum national standards applicable to HUD programs to protect citizens against excessive noise in their communities and places of residence.
(1)
Planning assistance.
HUD requires that grantees give adequate consideration to noise exposures and sources of noise as an integral part of the urban environment when HUD assistance is provided for planning purposes, as follows:
(i) Particular emphasis shall be placed on the importance of compatible land use planning in relation to airports, highways and other sources of high noise.
(ii) Applicants shall take into consideration HUD environmental standards impacting the use of land.
(2)
Activities subject to 24 CFR part 58.
(i) Responsible entities under 24 CFR part 58 must take into consideration the noise criteria and standards in the environmental review process and consider ameliorative actions when noise sensitive land development is proposed in noise exposed areas. Responsible entities shall address deviations from the standards in their environmental reviews as required in 24 CFR part 58.
(ii) Where activities are planned in a noisy area, and HUD assistance is contemplated later for housing and/or other noise sensitive activities, the responsible entity risks denial of the HUD assistance unless the HUD standards are met.
(3)
HUD support for new construction.
HUD assistance for the construction of new noise sensitive uses is prohibited generally for projects with unacceptable noise exposures and is discouraged for projects with normally unacceptable noise exposure. (Standards of acceptability are contained in § 51.103(c).) This policy applies to all HUD programs providing assistance, subsidy or insurance for housing, manufactured home parks, nursing homes, hospitals, and all programs providing assistance or insurance for land development, redevelopment or any other provision of facilities and services which are directed to making land available for housing or noise sensitive development. The policy does not apply to research demonstration projects which do not result in new construction or reconstruction, flood insurance, interstate land sales egistration, or any action or emergency assistance under disaster assistance provisions or appropriations which are provided to save lives, protect property, protect public health and safety, remove debris and wreckage, or assistance that has the effect of restoring facilities substantially as they existed prior to the disaster.
(4)
HUD support for existing construction.
Noise exposure by itself will not result in the denial of HUD support for the resale and purchase of otherwise acceptable existing buildings. However, environmental noise is a marketability factor which HUD will consider in determining the amount of insurance or other assistance that may be given.
(5)
HUD support of modernization and rehabilitation.
For modernization projects located in all noise exposed areas, HUD shall encourage noise attenuation features in alterations. For major or substantial rehabilitation projects in the Normally Unacceptable and Unacceptable noise zones, HUD actively shall seek to have project sponsors incorporate noise attenuation features, given the extent and nature of the rehabilitation being undertaken and the level or exterior noise exposure. In Unacceptable noise zones, HUD shall strongly encourage conversion of noise-exposed sites to land uses compatible with the high noise levels.
(6)
Research, guidance and publications.
HUD shall maintain a continuing program designed to provide new knowledge of noise abatement and control to public and private bodies, to develop improved methods for anticipating noise encroachment, to develop noise abatement measures through land use and building construction practices, and to foster better understanding of the consequences of noise. It shall be HUD's policy to issue guidance documents periodically to assist HUD personnel in assigning an acceptability category to projects in accordance with noise exposure standards, in evaluating noise attenuation measures, and in advising local agencies about noise abatement strategies. The guidance documents shall be updated periodically in accordance with advances in the state-of-the-art.
(7)
Construction equipment, building equipment and appliances.
HUD shall encourage the use of quieter construction equipment and methods in population centers, the use of quieter equipment and appliances in buildings, and the use of appropriate noise abatement techniques in the design of residential structures with potential noise problems.
(8)
Exterior noise goals.
It is a HUD goal that exterior noise levels do not exceed a day-night average sound level of 55 decibels. This level is recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency as a goal for outdoors in residential areas. The levels recommended by EPA are not standards and do not take into account cost or feasibility. For the purposes of this regulation and to meet other program objectives, sites with a day-night average sound level of 65 and below are acceptable and are allowable (see Standards in § 51.103(c)).
(9)
Interior noise goals.
It is a HUD goal that the interior auditory environment shall not exceed a day-night average sound level of 45 decibels. Attenuation measures to meet these interior goals shall be employed where feasible. Emphasis shall be given to noise sensitive interior spaces such as bedrooms. Minimum attenuation requirements are prescribed in § 51.104(a).
(10)
Acoustical privacy in multifamily buildings.
HUD shall require the use of building design and acoustical treatment to afford acoustical privacy in multifamily buildings pursuant to requirements of the Minimum Property Standards.
[44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 9268, Mar. 7, 1985; 61 FR 13333, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.102
Responsibilities.
(a)
Surveillance of noise problem areas.
Appropriate field staff shall maintain surveillance of potential noise problem areas and advise local officials, developers, and planning groups of the unacceptability of sites because of noise exposure at the earliest possible time in the decision process. Every attempt shall be made to insure that applicants' site choices are consistent with the policy and standards contained herein.
(b)
Notice to applicants.
At the earliest possible stage, HUD program staff shall:
(1) Determine the suitability of the acoustical environment of proposed projects;
(2) Notify applicants of any adverse or questionable situations; and
(3) Assure that prospective applicants are apprised of the standards contained
herein so that future site choices will be consistent with these standards.
(c)
Interdepartmental coordination.
HUD shall foster appropriate coordination between field offices and other departments and agencies, particularly the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Transportation, Department of Defense representatives, and the Department of Veterans Affairs. HUD staff shall utilize the acceptability standards in commenting on the prospective impacts of transportation facilities and other noise generators in the Environmental Impact Statement review process.
[44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979, as amended at 54 FR 39525, Sept. 27, 1989; 61 FR 13333, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.103
Criteria and standards.
These standards apply to all programs as indicated in § 51.101.
(a)
Measure of external noise environments.
The magnitude of the external noise environment at a site is determined by the value of the day-night average sound level produced as the result of the accumulation of noise from all sources contributing to the external noise environment at the site. Day-night average sound level, abbreviated as DNL and symbolized as L
dn
, is the 24-hour average sound level, in decibels, obtained after addition of 10 decibels to sound levels in the night from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. Mathematical expressions for average sound level and day-night average sound level are stated in the Appendix I to this subpart.
(b)
Loud impulsive sounds.
On an interim basis, when loud impulsive sounds, such as explosions or sonic booms, are experienced at a site, the day-night average sound level produced by the loud impulsive sounds alone shall have 8 decibels added to it in assessing the acceptability of the site (see appendix I to this subpart). Alternatively, the C-weighted day-night average sound level (L
Cdn
) may be used without the 8 decibel addition, as indicated in § 51.106(a)(3). Methods for assessing the contribution of loud impulsive sounds to day-night average sound level at a site and mathematical expressions for determining whether a sound is classed as “loud impulsive” are provided in the appendix I to this subpart.
(c)
Exterior standards.
(1) The degree of acceptability of the noise environment at a site is determined by the sound levels external to buildings or other facilities containing noise sensitive uses. The standards shall usually apply at a location 2 meters (6.5 feet) from the building housing noise sensitive activities in the direction of the predominant noise source. Where the building location is undetermined, the standards shall apply 2 meters (6.5 feet) from the building setback line nearest to the predominant noise source. The standards shall also apply at other locations where it is determined that quiet outdoor space is required in an area ancillary to the principal use on the site.
(2) The noise environment inside a building is considered acceptable if: (i) The noise environment external to the building complies with these standards, and (ii) the building is constructed in a manner common to the area or, if of uncommon construction, has at least the equivalent noise attenuation characteristics.
Site Acceptability Standards
Day-night average sound level (in decibels)
Special approvals and requirements
Acceptable
Not exceeding 65 dB(1)
None.
Normally Unacceptable
Above 65 dB but not exceeding 75 dB
Special Approvals (2)
Environmental Review (3).
Attenuation (4).
Unacceptable
Above 75 dB
Special Approvals (2).
Environmental Review (3).
Attenuation (5).
Notes: (1) Acceptable threshold may be shifted to 70 dB in special circumstances pursuant to § 51.105(a).
(2) See § 51.104(b) for requirements.
(3) See § 51.104(b) for requirements.
(4) 5 dB additional attenuation required for sites above 65 dB but not exceeding 70 dB and 10 dB additional attenuation required for sites above 70 dB but not exceeding 75 dB. (See § 51.104(a).)
(5) Attenuation measures to be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for CPD for approval on a case-by-case basis.
[44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 12214, Mar. 29, 1984]
§ 51.104
Special requirements.
(a)(1)
Noise attenuation.
Noise attenuation measures are those required in addition to attenuation provided by buildings as commonly constructed in the area, and requiring open windows for ventilation. Measures that reduce external noise at a site shall be used wherever practicable in preference to the incorporation of additional noise attenuation in buildings. Building designs and construction techniques that provide more noise attenuation than typical construction may be employed also to meet the noise attenuation requirements.
(2)
Normally unacceptable noise zones and unacceptable noise zones.
Approvals in Normally Unacceptable Noise Zones require a minimum of 5 decibels additional sound attenuation for buildings having noise-sensitive uses if the day-night average sound level is greater than 65 decibels but does not exceed 70 decibels, or a minimum of 10 decibels of additional sound attenuation if the day-night average sound level is greater than 70 decibels but does not exceed 75 decibels. Noise attenuation measures in Unacceptable Noise Zones require the approval of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, or the Certifying Officer for activities subject to 24 CFR part 58. (See § 51.104(b)(2).)
(b)
Environmental review requirements.
Environmental reviews shall be conducted pursuant to the requirements of 24 CFR parts 50 and 58, as applicable, or other environmental regulations issued by the Department. These requirements are hereby modified for all projects proposed in the Normally Unacceptable and Unacceptable noise exposure zones as follows:
(1)
Normally unacceptable noise zone.
(i) All projects located in the Normally Unacceptable Noise Zone require a Special Environmental Clearance except an EIS is required for a proposed project located in a largely undeveloped area, or where the HUD action is likely to encourage the establishment of incompatible land use in this noise zone.
(ii) When an EIS is required, the concurrence of the Program Assistant Secretary is also required before a project can be approved. For the purposes of this paragraph, an area will be considered as largely undeveloped unless the area within a 2-mile radius of the project boundary is more than 50 percent developed for urban uses and infrastructure (particularly water and sewers) is available and has capacity to serve the project.
(iii) All other projects in the Normally Unacceptable zone require a Special Environmental Clearance, except where an EIS is required for other reasons pursuant to HUD environmental policies.
(2)
Unacceptable noise zone.
An EIS is required prior to the approval of projects with unacceptable noise exposure. Projects in or partially in an Unacceptable Noise Zone shall be submitted to the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, or the Certifying Officer for activities subject to 24 CFR part 58, for approval. The Assistant Secretary or the Certifying Officer may waive the EIS requirement in cases where noise is the only environmental issue and no outdoor noise sensitive activity will take place on the site. In such cases, an environmental review shall be made pursuant to the requirements of 24 CFR parts 50 or 58, as appropriate.
[44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 13333, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.105
Exceptions.
(a)
Flexibility for non-acoustic benefits.
Where it is determined that program objectives cannot be achieved on sites meeting the acceptability standard of 65 decibels, the Acceptable Zone may be shifted to L
dn
70 on a case-by-case basis if all the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The project does not require an Environmental Impact Statement under provisions of § 51.104(b)(1) and noise is the only environmental issue.
(2) The project has received a Special Environmental Clearance and has received the concurrence of the Environmental Clearance Officer.
(3) The project meets other program goals to provide housing in proximity to employment, public facilities and transportation.
(4) The project is in conformance with local goals and maintains the character of the neighborhood.
(5) The project sponsor has set forth reasons, acceptable to HUD, as to why the noise attenuation measures that would normally be required for new construction in the L
dn
65 to L
dn
70 zone cannot be met.
(6) Other sites which are not exposed to noise above L
dn
65 and which meet program objectives are generally not available.
The above factors shall be documented and made part of the project file.
[44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.106
Implementation.
(a)
Use of available data.
HUD field staff shall make maximum use of noise data prepared by others when such data are determined to be current and adequately projected into the future and are in terms of the following:
(1)
Sites in the vicinity of airports.
The noise environment around airports is described sometimes in terms of Noise Exposure Forecasts, abbreviated as NEF or, in the State of California, as Community Noise Equivalent Level, abbreviated as CNEL. The noise environment for sites in the vicinity of airports for which day-night average sound level data are not available may be evaluated from NEF or CNEL analyses using the following conversions to DNL:
DNL ≉ NEF + 35
DNL ≉ CNEL
(2)
Sites in the vicinity of highways.
Highway projects receiving Federal aid are subject to noise analyses under the procedures of the Federal Highway Administration. Where such analyses are available they may be used to assess sites subject to the requirements of this standard. The Federal Highway Administration employs two alternate sound level descriptors: (i) The A-weighted sound level not exceeded more than 10 percent of the time for the highway design hour traffic flow, symbolized as L
10
; or (ii) the equivalent sound level for the design hour, symbolized as L
eq
. The day-night average sound level may be estimated from the design hour L
10
or L
eq
values by the following relationships, provided heavy trucks do not exceed 10 percent of the total traffic flow in vehicles per 24 hours and the traffic flow between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. does not exceed 15 percent of the average daily traffic flow in vehicles per 24 hours:
DNL ≉ L
10
(design hour)—3 decibels
DNL ≉ L
eq
(design hour) decibels
Where the auto/truck mix and time of day relationships as stated in this section do not exist, the HUD Noise Assessment Guidelines or other noise analysis shall be used.
(3)
Sites in the vicinity of installations producing loud impulsive sounds.
Certain Department of Defense installations produce loud impulsive sounds from artillery firing and bombing practice ranges. Noise analyses for these facilities sometimes encompass sites that may be subject to the requirements of this standard. Where such analyses are available they may be used on an interim basis to establish the acceptability of sites under this standard. The Department of Defense uses day-night average sound level based on C-weighted sound level, symbolized L
Cdn
, for the analysis of loud impulsive sounds. Where such analyses are provided, the 8 decibel addition specified in § 51.103(b), is not required, and the same numerical values of day-night average sound level used on an interim basis to determine site suitability for non-impulsive sounds apply to the L
Cdn
.
(4)
Use of areawide acoustical data.
HUD encourages the preparation and use of areawide acoustical information, such as noise contours for airports. Where such new or revised contours become available for airports (civil or military) and military installations they shall first be referred to the HUD State Office (Environmental Officer) for review, evaluation and decision on appropriateness for use by HUD. The HUD State Office shall submit revised contours to the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development for review, evaluation and decision whenever the area affected is changed by 20 percent or more, or whenever it is
determined that the new contours will have a significant effect on HUD programs, or whenever the contours are not provided in a methodology acceptable under § 51.106(a)(1) or in other cases where the HUD State Office determines that Headquarters review is warranted. For other areawide acoustical data, review is required only where existing areawide data are being utilized and where such data have been changed to reflect changes in the measurement methodology or underlying noise source assumptions. Requests for determination on usage of new or revised areawide data shall include the following:
(i) Maps showing old, if applicable, and new noise contours, along with brief description of data source and methodology.
(ii) Impact on existing and prospective urbanized areas and on development activity.
(iii) Impact on HUD-assisted projects currently in processing.
(iv) Impact on future HUD program activity. Where a field office has determined that immediate approval of new areawide data is necessary and warranted in limited geographic areas, the request for approval should state the circumstances warranting such approval. Actions on proposed projects shall not be undertaken while new areawide noise data are being considered for HUD use except where the proposed location is affected in the same manner under both the old and new noise data.
(b)
Site assessments.
Compliance with the standards contained in § 51.103(c) shall, where necessary, be determined using noise assessment guidelines, handbooks, technical documents and procedures issued by the Department.
(c)
Variations in site noise levels.
In many instances the noise environment will vary across a site, with portions of the site being in an Acceptable noise environment and other portions in a Normally Unacceptable noise environment. The standards in § 51.103(c) shall apply to the portions of a building or buildings used for residential purposes and for ancillary noise sensitive open spaces.
(d)
Noise measurements.
Where noise assessments result in a finding that the site is borderline or questionable, or is controversial, noise measurements may be performed. Where it is determined that noise measurements are required, such measurements will be conducted in accordance with methods and measurement criteria established by the Department. Locations for noise measurements will depend on the location of noise sensitive uses that are nearest to the predominant noise source (see § 51.103(c)).
(e)
Projections of noise exposure.
In addition to assessing existing exposure, future conditions should be projected. To the extent possible, noise exposure shall be projected to be representative of conditions that are expected to exist at a time at least 10 years beyond the date of the project or action under review.
(f)
Reduction of site noise by use of berms and/or barriers.
If it is determined by adequate analysis that a berm and/or barrier will reduce noise at a housing site, and if the barrier is existing or there are assurances that it will be in place prior to occupancy, the environmental noise analysis for the site may reflect the benefits afforded by the berm and/or barrier. In the environmental review process under § 51.104(b), the location height and design of the berm and/or barrier shall be evaluated to determine its effectiveness, and impact on design and aesthetic quality, circulation and other environmental factors.
[44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
Pt. 51, Subpt. B, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart B of Part 51—Definition of Acoustical Quantities
1.
Sound Level.
The quantity in decibels measured with an instrument satisfying requirements of American National Standard Specification for Type 1 Sound Level Meters S1.4-1971. Fast time-averaging and A-frequency weighting are to be used, unless others are specified. The sound level meter with the A-weighting is progressively less sensitive to sounds of frequency below 1,000 hertz (cycles per second), somewhat as is the ear. With fast time averaging the sound level meter responds particularly to recent sounds almost as quickly as does the ear in judging the loudness of a sound.
2.
Average Sound Level.
Average sound level, in decibels, is the level of the mean-square A-weighted sound pressure during the
stated time period, with reference to the square of the standard reference sound pressure of 20 micropascals.
Day-night average sound level, abbreviated as DNL, and symbolized mathematically as L
dn
is defined as:
EC12OC91.000
Time t is in seconds, so the limits shown in hours and minutes are actually interpreted in seconds. L
A
(t) is the time varying value of A-weighted sound level, the quantity in decibels measured by an instrument satisfying requirements of American National Standard Specification for Type 1 Sound Level Meters S1.4-1971.
3.
Loud Impulsive Sounds.
When loud impulsive sounds such as sonic booms or explosions are anticipated contributors to the noise environment at a site, the contribution to day-night average sound level produced by the loud impulsive sounds shall have 8 decibels added to it in assessing the acceptability of a site.
A loud impulsive sound is defined for the purpose of this regulation as one for which:
(i) The sound is definable as a discrete event wherein the sound level increases to a maximum and then decreases in a total time interval of approximately one second or less to the ambient background level that exists without the sound; and
(ii) The maximum sound level (obtained with slow averaging time and A-weighting of a Type 1 sound level meter whose characteristics comply with ANSI S1.4-1971) exceeds the sound level prior to the onset of the event by at least 6 decibels; and
(iii) The maximum sound level obtained with fast averaging time of a sound level meter exceeds the maximum value obtained with slow averaging time by at least 4 decibels.
[44 FR 40861, July 12, 1979; 49 FR 10253, Mar. 20, 1984; 49 FR 12214, Mar. 29, 1984]

# Subpart C—Siting of HUD-Assisted Projects Near Hazardous Operations Handling Conventional Fuels or Chemicals of an Explosive or Flammable Nature

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
49 FR 5103, Feb. 10, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.200
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart C is to:
(a) Establish safety standards which can be used as a basis for calculating acceptable separation distances (ASD) for HUD-assisted projects from specific, stationary, hazardous operations which store, handle, or process hazardous substances;
(b) Alert those responsible for the siting of HUD-assisted projects to the inherent potential dangers when such projects are located in the vicinity of such hazardous operations;
(c) Provide guidance for identifying those hazardous operations which are most prevalent;
(d) Provide the technical guidance required to evaluate the degree of danger anticipated from explosion and thermal radiation (fire); and
(e) Provide technical guidance required to determine acceptable separation distances from such hazards.
[49 FR 5103, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.201
Definitions.
The terms
Department
and
Secretary
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Acceptable separation distance (ASD)
—means the distance beyond which the explosion or combustion of a hazard is not likely to cause structures or individuals to be subjected to blast overpressure or thermal radiation flux levels in excess of the safety standards in § 51.203. The ASD is determined by applying the safety standards established by this subpart C to the guidance set
forth in HUD Guidebook, “Siting of HUD-Assisted Projects Near Hazardous Facilities.”
Blast overpressure—
means the pressure, in pounds per square inch, in excess of normal atmospheric pressure on the surrounding medium caused by an explosion.
Danger zone—
means the land area circumscribed by the radius which delineates the ASD of a given hazard.
Hazard
—means any stationary container which stores, handles, or processes hazardous substances of an explosive or fire prone nature. The term “hazard” does not include:
(1) Pipelines for the transmission of hazardous substances, if such pipelines are located underground, or comply with applicable Federal, State and local safety standards;
(2) Containers with a capacity of 100 gallons or less when they contain common liquid industrial fuels, such as gasoline, fuel oil, kerosene, and crude oil, since they generally would pose no danger in terms of thermal radiation or blast overpressure to a project;
(3) Facilities that are shielded from a proposed HUD-assisted project by the topography, because these topographic features effectively provide a mitigating measure already in place;
(4) All underground containers; and
(5) Containers used to hold liquefied petroleum gas with a volumetric capacity not to exceed 1,000 gallons water capacity, if they comply with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 58. NFPA 58, Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code, 2017 Edition, copyright 2016 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register, under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at HUD's Office of Environment and Energy, 202-402-5226, and is available from National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169, telephone number 800-344-3555, fax number 800-593-6372,
www.nfpa.org
. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA,
email fedreg.legal@nara.gov
or visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
. Persons with hearing or speech impairments may access the numbers above through TTY by calling the Federal Relay Service, toll-free, at 800-877-8339.
Hazardous substances
—means petroleum products (petrochemicals) and chemicals that can produce blast overpressure or thermal radiation levels in excess of the standards set forth in § 51.203. A specific list of hazardous substance is found in appendix I to this subpart.
HUD-assisted project—
the development, construction, rehabilitation, modernization or conversion with HUD subsidy, grant assistance, loan, loan guarantee, or mortgage insurance, of any project which is intended for residential, institutional, recreational, commercial or industrial use. For purposes of this subpart the terms “rehabilitation” and “modernization” refer only to such repairs and renovation of a building or buildings as will result in an increased number of people being exposed to hazardous operations by increasing residential densities, converting the type of use of a building to habitation, or making a vacant building habitable.
Thermal radiation level—
means the emission and propagation of heat energy through space or a material medium, expressed in BTU per square foot per hour (BTU/ft.
2
hr.).
[49 FR 5103, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 5204, Feb. 9, 1996; 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996; 85 FR 4228, Jan. 24, 2020]
§ 51.202
Approval of HUD-assisted projects.
(a) The Department will not approve an application for assistance for a proposed project located at less than the acceptable separation distance from a hazard, as defined in § 51.201, unless appropriate mitigating measures, as defined in § 51.205, are implemented, or unless mitigating measures are already in place.
(b) In the case of all applications for proposed HUD-assisted projects, the Department shall evaluate projected development plans in the vicinity of these projects to determine whether there are plans to install a hazardous operation in close proximity to the proposed project. If the evaluation
shows that such a plan exists, the Department shall not approve assistance for the project unless the Department obtains satisfactory assurances that adequate mitigating measures will be taken when the hazardous operation is installed.
[49 FR 5103, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.203
Safety standards.
The following standards shall be used in determining the acceptable separation distance of a proposed HUD-assisted project from a hazard:
(a)
Thermal Radiation Safety Standard.
Projects shall be located so that:
(1) The allowable thermal radiation flux level at the building shall not exceed 10,000 BTU/sq. ft. per hr.;
(2) The allowable thermal radiation flux level for outdoor, unprotected facilities or areas of congregation shall not exceed 450 BTU/sq. ft. per hour.
(b)
Blast Overpressure Safety Standard.
Projects shall be located so that the maximum allowable blast overpressure at both buildings and outdoor, unprotected facilities or areas shall not exceed 0.5 psi.
(c) If a hazardous substance constitutes both a thermal radiation and blast overpressure hazard, the ASD for each hazard shall be calculated, and the larger of the two ASDs shall be used to determine compliance with this subpart.
(d) Background information on the standards and the logarithmic thermal radiation and blast overpressure charts that provide assistance in determining acceptable separation distances are contained in appendix II to this subpart C.
[49 FR 5103, Feb. 10, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.204
HUD-assisted hazardous facilities.
In reviewing applications for proposed HUD-assisted projects involving the installation of hazardous facilities, the Department shall ensure that such hazardous facilities are located at an acceptable separation distance from residences and from any other facility or area where people may congregate or be present. The mitigating measures listed in § 51.205 may be taken into account in determining compliance with this section.
§ 51.205
Mitigating measures.
Application of the standards for determining an Acceptable Separation Distance (ASD) for a HUD-assisted project from a potential hazard of an explosion or fire prone nature is predicated on level topography with no intervening object(s) between the hazard and the project. Application of the standards can be eliminated or modified if:
(a) The nature of the topography shields the proposed project from the hazard.
(b) An existing permanent fire resistant structure of adequate size and strength will shield the proposed project from the hazard.
(c) A barrier is constructed surrounding the hazard, at the site of the project, or in between the potential hazard and the proposed project.
(d) The structure and outdoor areas used by people are designed to withstand blast overpressure and thermal radiation anticipated from the potential hazard (e.g., the project is of masonry and steel or reinforced concrete and steel construction).
§ 51.206
Implementation.
This subpart C shall be implemented for each proposed HUD-assisted project by the HUD approving official or responsible entity responsible for review of the project. The implementation procedure will be part of the environmental review process in accordance with the procedures set forth in 24 CFR parts 50 and 58.
[61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.207
Special circumstances.
The Secretary or the Secretary's designee may, on a case-by-case basis, when circumstances warrant, require the application of this subpart C with respect to a substance not listed in appendix I to this subpart C that would create thermal or overpressure effect in excess of that listed in § 51.203.
[61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.208
Reservation of administrative and legal rights.
Publication of these standards does not constitute a waiver of any right: (a) Of HUD to disapprove a project proposal if the siting is too close to a potential hazard not covered by this subpart, and (b) of HUD or any person or other entity to seek to abate or to collect damages occasioned by a nuisance, whether or not covered by the subpart.
Pt. 51, Subpt. C, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart C of Part 51—Specific Hazardous Substances
The following is a list of specific petroleum products and chemicals defined to be hazardous substances under § 51.201.

# Hazardous Liquids
Acetic Acid
Acetic Anhydride
Acetone
Acrylonitrile
Amyl Acetate
Amyl Alcohol
Benzene
Butyl Acetate
Butyl Acrylate
Butyl Alcohol
Carbon Bisulfide
Carbon Disulfide
Cellosolve
Cresols
Crude Oil (Petroleum)
Cumene
Cyclohexane
No. 2 Diesel Fuel
Ethyl Acetate
Ethyl Acrylate
Ethyl Alcohol
Ethyl Benzene
Ethyl Dichloride
Ethyl Ether
Gasoline
Heptane
Hexane
Isobutyl Acetate
Isobutyl Alcohol
Isopropyl Acetate
Isopropyl Alcohol
Jet Fuel and Kerosene
Methyl Alcohol
Methyl Amyl Alcohol
Methyl Cellosolve
Methyl Ethyl Ketone
Naptha
Pentane
Propylene Oxide
Toluene
Vinyl Acetate
Xylene

# Hazardous Gases
Acetaldehyde
Butadiene
Butane
Ethene
Ethylene
Ethylene Oxide
Hydrogen
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)
Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG)
Propane
Propylene
Vinyl Chloride
(Primary Source: “Urban Development Siting with respect to Hazardous Commercial/Industrial Facilities,” by Rolf Jensen and Associates, Inc., April 1982)
[49 FR 5105, Feb. 10, 1984; 49 FR 12214, Mar. 29, 1984]
Pt. 51, Subpt. C, App. II

# Appendix II to Subpart C of Part 51—Development of Standards; Calculation Methods

# I. Background Information Concerning the Standards
(a)
Thermal Radiation:
(1)
Introduction.
Flammable products stored in above ground containers represent a definite, potential threat to human life and structures in the event of fire. The resulting fireball emits thermal radiation which is absorbed by the surroundings. Combustible structures, such as wooden houses, may be ignited by the thermal radiation being emitted. The radiation can cause severe burn, injuries and even death to exposed persons some distance away from the site of the fire.
(2)
Criteria for Acceptable Separation Distance (ASD).
Wooden buildings, window drapes and trees generally ignite spontaneously when exposed for a relatively long period of time to thermal radiation levels of approximately 10,000 Btu/hr. sq. ft. It will take 15 to 20 minutes for a building to ignite at that degree of thermal intensity. Since the reasonable response time for fire fighting units in urbanized areas is approximately five to ten minutes, a standard of 10,000 BTU/hr. sq. ft. is considered an acceptable level of thermal radiation for buildings.
People in outdoor areas exposed to a thermal radiation flux level of approximately 1,500 Btu/ft
2
hr will suffer intolerable pain after 15 seconds. Longer exposure causes blistering, permanent skin damage, and even death. Since it is assumed that children and the elderly could not take refuge behind walls or run away from the thermal effect of the fire within the 15 seconds before skin blistering occurs, unprotected (outdoor) areas, such as playgrounds, parks, yards, school grounds, etc., must be placed at such a distance from potential fire locations so that the radiation flux level is well below 1500 Btu/ft
2
hr. An acceptable flux level, particularly for elderly people and children, is 450 Btu/ft
2
hr. The skin can be exposed to this degree of thermal radiation for 3 minutes or longer with no serious detrimental effect. The result would be the same as a bad sunburn. Therefore, the standard for areas in which there will be exposed people, e.g. outdoor recreation areas such as playgrounds and parks, is set at 450 Btu/hr. sq. ft. Areas covered also include open space ancillary to residential structures, such as yard areas and vehicle parking areas.
(3)
Acceptable Separation Distance From a Potential Fire Hazard.
This is the actual setback required for the safety of occupied buildings and their inhabitants, and people in open spaces (exposed areas) from a potential fire hazard. The specific distance required for safety from such a hazard depends
upon the nature and the volume of the substance. The Technical Guidebook entitled “Urban Development Siting With Respect to Hazardous/Commercial Industrial Facilities,” which supplements this regulation, contains the technical guidance required to compute Acceptable Separation Distances (ASD) for those flammable substances most often encountered.
(b)
Blast Overpressure:
The Acceptable Separation Distance (ASD) for people and structures from materials prone to explosion is dependent upon the resultant blast measured in pounds per square inch (psi) overpressure. It has been determined by the military and corroborated by two independent studies conducted for the Department of Housing and Urban Development that 0.5 psi is the acceptable level of blast overpressure for both buildings and occupants, because a frame structure can normally withstand that level of external exertion with no serious structural damage, and it is unlikely that human beings inside the building would normally suffer any serious injury. Using this as the safety standard for blast overpressure, nomographs have been developed from which an ASD can be determined for a given quantify of hazardous substance. These nomographs are contained in the handbook with detailed instructions on their use.
(c)
Hazard evaluation:
The Acceptable Separation Distances for buildings, which are determined for thermal radiation and blast overpressure, delineate separate identifiable danger zones for each potential accident source. For some materials the fire danger zone will have the greatest radius and cover the largest area, while for others the explosion danger zone will be the greatest. For example, conventional petroleum fuel products stored in unpressurized tanks do not emit blast overpressure of dangerous levels when ignited. In most cases, hazardous substances will be stored in pressurized containers. The resulting blast overpressure will be experienced at a greater distance than the resulting thermal radiation for the standards set in Section 51.203. In any event the hazard requiring the greatest separation distance will prevail in determining the location of HUD-assisted projects.
The standards developed for the protection of people and property are given in the following table.
Thermal radiation
Blast overpressure
Amount of acceptable exposure allowed for building structures
10,000 BTU/ft
2
hr
0.5 psi.
Amount of acceptable exposure allowed for people in open areas
450 BTU/ft
2
hr
0.5 psi.

# Problem Example
The following example is given as a guide to assist in understanding how the procedures are used to determine an acceptable separation distance. The technical data are found in the HUD Guidebook. Liquid propane is used in the example since it is both an explosion and a fire hazard.
In this hypothetical case a proposed housing project is to be located 850 feet from a 30,000 gallon liquid propane (LPG) tank. The objective is to determine the acceptable separation distance from the LPG tank. Since propane is both explosive and fire prone it will be necessary to determine the ASD for both explosion and for fire. The greatest of the two will govern. There is no dike around the tank in this example.
Nomographs from the technical Guidebook have been reproduced to facilitate the solving of the problem.

# ASD For Explosion
Use Figure 1 to determine the acceptable separation distance for explosion.
The graph depicted on Figure 1 is predicated on a blast overpressure of 0.5 psi.
The ASD in feet can be determined by applying the quantity of the hazard (in gallons) to the graph.
In this case locate the 30,000 gallon point on the horizontal axis and draw a vertical line from that point to the intersection with the straight line curve. Then draw a horizontal line from the point where the lines cross to the left vertical axis where the ACCEPTABLE SEPARATION DISTANCE of 660 feet is found.
Therefore the ASD for explosion is 660 feet
Since the proposed project site is located 850 feet from the tank it is located at a safe distance with regards to blast overpressure.
EC12OC91.001

# ASD For Fire
To determine the ASD for fire it will be necessary to first find the fire width (diameter of the fireball) on Figure 2. Then apply this to Figure 3 to determine the ASD.
Since there are two safety standards for fire: (a) 10,000 BTU/ft
2
hr. for buildings; and (b) 450 BTU/ft
2
hr. for people in exposed areas, it will be necessary to determine an ASD for each.
To determine the fire width locate the 30,000 gallon point on the horizontal axis on
Figure 2
and draw a vertical line to the straight line curve. Then draw a horizontal line from the point where the lines cross to the left vertical axis where the FIRE WIDTH is found to be
350 feet.
Now locate the 350 ft. point on the horizontal axis of
Figure 3
and draw a vertical line from that point to curves 1 and 2. Then draw horizontal lines from the points where the lines cross to the left vertical axis where the ACCEPTABLE SEPARATION DISTANCES of
240 feet
for buildings and
1,150 feet
for exposure to people is found.
Based on this the proposed project site is located at a safe distance from a potential fireball. However, exposed playgrounds or other exposed areas of congregation must be at least 1,150 feet from the tank, or be appropriately shielded from a potential fireball.
(Source: HUD Handbook, “Urban Development Siting With Respect to Hazardous Commercial/Industrial Facilities.”)
EC12OC91.002
EC12OC91.003
[49 FR 5105, Feb. 10, 1984; 49 FR 12214, Mar. 29, 1984]

# Subpart D—Siting of HUD Assisted Projects in Runway Clear Zones at Civil Airports and Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones at Military Airfields

# Authority:
Sec. 2, Housing Act of 1949, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1441, affirmed by sec. 2, HUD Act of 1969, Pub. L. 90-448; sec. 7(d), HUD Act of 1965, 42 U.S.C. 3535(d); OMB, Fed'l Mgmt. Cir. 75-2: Compatible Land Uses At Federal Airfields.

# Source:
49 FR 880, Jan. 6, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.300
Purpose.
It is the purpose of this subpart to promote compatible land uses around civil airports and military airfields by identifying suitable land uses for Runway Clear Zones at civil airports and Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones at military airfields and by establishing them as standards for providing HUD assistance, subsidy or insurance.
[49 FR 880, Jan. 6, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.301
Definitions.
For the purposes of this regulation, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Accident Potential Zone.
An area at military airfields which is beyond the Clear Zone. The standards for the Accident Potential Zones are set out in Department of Defense Instruction 4165.57, “Air Installations Compatible Use Zones,” November 8, 1977, 32 CFR part 256. There are no Accident Potential Zones at civil airports.
(b)
Airport Operator.
The civilian or military agency, group or individual which exercises control over the operations of the civil airport or military airfield.
(c)
Civil Airport.
An existing commercial service airport as designated in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems prepared by the Federal Aviation Administration in accordance with section 504 of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982.
(d)
Runway Clear Zones and Clear Zones.
Areas immediately beyond the ends of a runway. The standards for Runway Clear Zones for civil airports are established by FAA regulation 14 CFR part 152. The standards for Clear Zones for military airfields are established by DOD Instruction 4165.57, 32 CFR part 256.
§ 51.302
Coverage.
(a) These policies apply to HUD programs which provide assistance, subsidy or insurance for construction, land development, community development or redevelopment or any other provision of facilities and services which are designed to make land available for construction. When the HUD assistance, subsidy or insurance is used to make land available for construction rather than for the actual construction, the provision of the HUD assistance, subsidy or insurance shall be dependent upon whether the facility to be built is itself acceptable in accordance with the standards in § 51.303.
(b) These policies apply not only to new construction but also to substantial or major modernization and rehabilitation and to any other program which significantly prolongs the physical or economic life of existing facilities or which, in the case of Accident Potential Zones:
(1) Changes the use of the facility so that it becomes one which is no longer acceptable in accordance with the standards contained in § 51.303(b);
(2) Significantly increases the density or number of people at the site; or
(3) Introduces explosive, flammable or toxic materials to the area.
(c) Except as noted in § 51.303(a)(3), these policies do not apply to HUD programs where the action only involves the purchase, sale or rental of an existing property without significantly prolonging the physical or economic life of the property.
(d) The policies do not apply to research or demonstration projects which do not result in new construction or reconstruction, to interstate land sales registration, or to any action or emergency assistance which is provided to save lives, protect property, protect public health and safety, or remove debris and wreckage.
[49 FR 880, Jan. 6, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.303
General policy.
It is HUD's general policy to apply standards to prevent incompatible development around civil airports and military airfields.
(a) HUD policy for actions in Runway Clear Zones and Clear Zones.
(1) HUD policy is not to provide any assistance, subsidy or insurance for projects and actions covered by this part except as stated in § 51.303(a)(2) below.
(2) If a project proposed for HUD assistance, subsidy or insurance is one which will not be frequently used or occupied by people, HUD policy is to provide assistance, subsidy or insurance only when written assurances are provided to HUD by the airport operator to the effect that there are no plans to purchase the land involved with such facilities as part of a Runway Clear Zone or Clear Zone acquisition program.
(3) Special notification requirements for Runway Clear Zones and Clear Zones. In all cases involving HUD assistance, subsidy, or insurance for the purchase or sale of an existing property in a Runway Clear Zone or Clear Zone, HUD (or the responsible entity or recipient under 24 CFR part 58) shall advise the buyer that the property is in a Runway Clear Zone or Clear Zone, what the implications of such a location are, and that there is a possibility that the property may, at a later date, be acquired by the airport operator. The buyer must sign a statement acknowledging receipt of this information.
(b) HUD policy for actions in Accident Potential Zones at Military Airfields. HUD policy is to discourage the provision of any assistance, subsidy or insurance for projects and actions in the Accident Potential Zones. To be approved, projects must be generally consistent with the recommendations in the
Land Use Compatibility Guidelines For Accident Potential Zones
chart contained in DOD Instruction 4165.57, 32 CFR part 256.
[49 FR 880, Jan. 6, 1984, as amended at 61 FR 13334, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.304
Responsibilities.
(a) The following persons have the authority to approve actions in Accident Potential Zones:
(1) For programs subject to environmental review under 24 CFR part 58: the Certifying Officer of the responsible entity as defined in 24 CFR part 58.
(2) For all other HUD programs: the HUD approving official having approval authority for the project.
(b) The following persons have the authority to approve actions in Runway Clear Zones and Clear Zones:
(1) For programs subject to environmental review under 24 CFR part 58: The Certifying Officer of the responsible entity as defined in 24 CFR part 58.
(2) For all other HUD programs: the Program Assistant Secretary.
[61 FR 13335, Mar. 26, 1996]
§ 51.305
Implementation.
(a) Projects already approved for assistance. This regulation does not apply to any project approved for assistance prior to the effective date of the regulation whether the project was actually under construction at that date or not.
(b) Acceptable data on Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones. The only Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones and Accident Potential Zones which will be recognized in applying this part are those provided by the airport operators and which for civil airports are defined in accordance with FAA regulations 14 CFR part 152 or for military airfields, DOD Instruction 4165.57, 32 CFR part 256. All data, including changes, related to the dimensions of Runway Clear Zones for civil airports shall be verified with the nearest FAA Airports District Office before use by HUD.
(c) Changes in Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones, and Accident Potential Zones. If changes in the Runway Clear Zones, Clear Zones or Accident Potential Zones are made, the field offices shall immediately adopt these revised zones for use in reviewing proposed projects.
(d) The decision to approve projects in the Runway Clear Zones, Clear
Zones and Accident Potential Zones must be documented as part of the enviornmental assessment or, when no assessment is required, as part of the project file.
Pt. 52

# PART 52—INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES
Sec.
52.1
What is the purpose of these regulations?
52.2
What definitions apply to these regulations?
52.3
What programs and activities of the Department are subject to these regulations?
52.4
What are the Secretary's general responsibilities under the Order?
52.5
What is the Secretary's obligation with respect to Federal interagency coordination?
52.6
What procedures apply to the selection of programs and activities under these regulations?
52.7
How does the Secretary communicate with state and local officials concerning the Department's programs and activities?
52.8
How does the Secretary provide states an opportunity to comment on proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development?
52.9
How does the Secretary receive and respond to comments?
52.10
How does the Secretary make efforts to accommodate intergovernmental concerns?
52.11
What are the Secretary's obligations in interstate situations?
52.12
[Reserved]

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 6506; 42 U.S.C. 3334, 3535(d).

# Source:
48 FR 29216, June 24, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 52.1
What is the purpose of these regulations?
(a) The regulations in this part implement Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,” issued July 14, 1982 and amended on April 8, 1983. These regulations also implement applicable provisions of section 401 of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 and section 204 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966.
(b) These regulations are intended to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened Federalism by relying on state processes and on state, areawide, regional and local coordination for review of proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development.
(c) These regulations are intended to aid the internal management of the Department, and are not intended to create any right or benefit enforceable at law by a party against the Department or its officers.
§ 52.2
What definitions apply to these regulations?
Order
means Executive Order 12372, issued July 14, 1982, and amended April 8, 1983 and titled “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.”
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development or an official or employee of the Department acting for the Secretary under a delegation of authority.
State
means any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
[48 FR 29216, June 24, 1983, as amended at 61 FR 5205, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 52.3
What programs and activities of the Department are subject to these regulations?
The Secretary publishes in the
Federal Register
a list of the Department's programs and activities that are subject to these regulations and identifies which of these are subject to the requirements of section 204 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act.
§ 52.4
What are the Secretary's general responsibilities under the Order?
(a) The Secretary provides opportunities for consultation by elected officials of those state and local governments that would provide the non-federal funds for, or that would be directly affected by, proposed Federal financial assistance from, or direct Federal development by, the Department.
(b) If a state adopts a process under the Order to review and coordinate proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development, the Secretary, to the extent permitted by law:
(1) Uses the state process to determine official views of state and local elected officials;
(2) Communicates with state and local elected officials as early in a program planning cycle as is reasonably feasible to explain specific plans and actions;
(3) Makes efforts to accommodate state and local elected officials' concerns with proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development that are communicated through the state process;
(4) Allows the states to simplify and consolidate existing federally required state plan submissions;
(5) Where state planning and budgeting systems are sufficient and where permitted by law, encourages the substitution of state plans for federally required state plans;
(6) Seeks the coordination of views of affected state and local elected officials in one state with those of another state when proposed Federal financial assistance or direct Federal development has an impact on interstate metropolitan urban centers or other interstate areas; and
(7) Supports state and local governments by discouraging the reauthorization or creation of any planning organization which is federally-funded, which has a limited purpose, and which is not adequately representative of, or accountable to, state or local elected officials.
§ 52.5
What is the Secretary's obligation with respect to Federal interagency coordination?
The Secretary, to the extent practicable, consults with and seeks advice from all other substantially affected Federal departments and agencies in an effort to assure full coordination between such agencies and the Department regarding programs and activities covered under these regulations.
§ 52.6
What procedures apply to the selection of programs and activities under these regulations?
(a) A state may select any program or activity published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 52.3 of this part for intergovernmental review under these regulations. Each state, before selecting programs and activities shall consult with local elected officials.
(b) Each state that adopts a process shall notify the Secretary of the Department's programs and activities selected for that process.
(c) A state may notify the Secretary of changes in its selections at any time. For each change, the state shall submit to the Secretary an assurance that the state has consulted with local elected officials regarding the change. The Department may establish deadlines by which states are required to inform the Secretary of changes in their program selections.
(d) The Secretary uses a state's process as soon as feasible, depending on individual programs and activities, after the Secretary is notified of its selections.
§ 52.7
How does the Secretary communicate with state and local officials concerning the Department's programs and activities?
(a) For those programs and activities covered by a state process under § 52.6, the Secretary, to the extent permitted by law—
(1) Uses the state process to determine views of state and local elected officials; and,
(2) Communicates with state and local elected officials, through the state process, as early in a program planning cycle as is reasonably feasible to explain specific plans and actions.
(b) The Secretary provides notice to directly affected state, areawide, regional, and local entities in a state of proposed Federal financial assistance or direct Federal development if—
(1) The state has not adopted a process under the Order; or
(2) The assistance or development involves a program or activity not selected for the state process.
This notice may be made by publication in the
Federal Register
or other
appropriate means, which the Department in its discretion deems appropriate.
§ 52.8
How does the Secretary provide states an opportunity to comment on proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development?
(a) Except in unusual circumstances, the Secretary gives state processes or directly affected state, areawide, regional and local officials and entities—
(1) At least 30 days from the date established by the Secretary to comment on proposed Federal financial assistance under: (i) A covered mortgage insurance program, (ii) the Urban Development Action Grant Program, or (iii) the Housing Development Grant Program.
(2) At least 60 days from the date established by the Secretary to comment on proposed Federal financial assistance other than under a program covered by paragraph (a)(1).
(b) This section also applies to comments in cases in which the review, coordination, and communication with the Department have been delegated.
(c) Applicants for programs and activities subject to section 204 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Act shall allow areawide agencies a 60-day opportunity for review and comment.
[48 FR 29216, June 24, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 24653, June 14, 1984]
§ 52.9
How does the Secretary receive and respond to comments?
(a) The Secretary follows the procedures in § 52.10 if—
(1) A state office or official is designated to act as a single point of contact between a state process and all Federal agencies, and
(2) That office or official transmits a state process recommendation for a program selected under § 52.6.
(b)(1) The single point of contact is not obligated to transmit comments from state, areawide, regional or local officials and entities where there is no state process recommendation.
(2) If a state process recommendation is transmitted by a single point of contact, all comments from state, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities that differ from it must also be transmitted.
(c) If a state has not established a process, or is unable to submit a state process recommendation, state, areawide, regional and local officials and entities may submit comments either to the applicant or to the Department.
(d) If a program or activity is not selected for a state process, state, areawide, regional and local officials and entities may submit comments either to the applicant or to the Department. In addition, if a state process recommendation for a nonselected program or activity is transmitted to the Department by the single point of contact, the Secretary follows the procedures of § 52.10 of this part.
(e) The Secretary considers comments which do not constitute a state process recommendation submitted under these regulations and for which the Secretary is not required to apply the procedures of § 52.10 of this part, when such comments are provided by a single point of contact, by the applicant, or directly to the Department by a commenting party.
§ 52.10
How does the Secretary make efforts to accommodate intergovernmental concerns?
(a) If a state process provides a state process recommendation to the Department through its single point of contact, the Secretary either—
(1) Accepts the recommendation;
(2) Reaches a mutually agreeable solution with the state process; or
(3) Provides the single point of contact with such written explanation of its decision, as the Secretary in his or her discretion deems appropriate. The Secretary may also supplement the written explanation by providing the explanation to the single point of contact by telephone, other telecommunication, or other means.
(b) In any explanation under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Secretary informs the single point of contact that—
(1) The Department will not implement its decision for at least ten days after the single point of contact receives the explanation; or
(2) The Secretary has reviewed the decision and determined that, because of unusual circumstances, the waiting period of at least ten days is not feasible.
(c) For purposes of computing the waiting period under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a single point of contact is presumed to have received written notification 5 days after the date of mailing of such notification.
§ 52.11
What are the Secretary's obligations in interstate situations?
(a) The Secretary is responsible for—
(1) Identifying proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development that have an impact on interstate areas;
(2) Notifying appropriate officials and entities in states which have adopted a process and which select the Department's program or activity.
(3) Making efforts to identify and notify the affected state, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities in those states that have not adopted a process under the Order or do not select the Department's program or activity;
(4) Responding pursuant to § 52.10 of this part if the Secretary receives a recommendation from a designated areawide agency transmitted by a single point of contact, in cases in which review, coordination, and communication with the Department have been delegated.
(b) The Secretary uses the procedures in § 52.10 if a state process provides a state process recommendation to the Department through a single point of contact.
§ 52.12
[Reserved]
Pt. 55

# PART 55—FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION OF WETLANDS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
55.1
Purpose.
55.2
Terminology.
55.3
Assignment of responsibilities.
55.4
Notification of floodplain hazard.
55.5
Flood insurance.
55.6
Complying with this part.

# Subpart B—Application of Executive Orders on Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands
55.7
Identifying the FFRMS floodplain.
55.8
Limitations on HUD assistance in floodplains.
55.9
Identifying wetlands.
55.10
Limitations on HUD assistance in wetlands.
55.11
[Reserved]
55.12
Inapplicability of 24 CFR part 55 to certain categories of proposed actions.
55.13
Inapplicability of 8-step decision making process to certain categories of proposed actions.
55.14
Modified 5-step decision making process for certain categories of proposed actions.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Making Determinations on Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands
55.16
Applicability of subpart C decision making process.
55.20
Decision making process.
55.21
Alternate processing for existing nonconforming sites.
55.22-55.25
[Reserved]
55.26
Adoption of another agency's review under the Executive orders.

# Subpart D—Severability
55.30
Severability.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 4001-4128, and 5154a; 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
E.O. 13690, 80 FR 6425; Pub. L. 93-234, 87 Stat. 975; E.O. 11988, 42 FR 26951, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 117; E.O. 11990, 42 FR 26961, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p 121.

# Source:
59 FR 19107, Apr. 21, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 55.1
Purpose.
(a)(1) The purpose of Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, as amended, is “to avoid to the extent possible the long and short-term adverse impacts associated with the occupancy and modification of floodplains and to avoid direct or indirect support of floodplain development wherever there is a practicable alternative.”
(2) The purpose of Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, is “to avoid to the extent possible the long-
and short-term adverse impacts associated with the destruction or modification of wetlands and to avoid direct or indirect support of new construction in wetlands wherever there is a practicable alternative.”
(3) This part implements requirements consistent with Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, as amended, and Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, and employs the principles of the Unified National Program for Floodplain Management. These regulations apply to all proposed actions for which approval is required, either from HUD (under any applicable HUD program) or from a recipient (under programs subject to 24 CFR part 58), that are subject to potential harm by location in floodplains or wetlands. Covered actions include acquisition, construction, demolition, improvement, disposition, financing, and use of properties located in floodplains or wetlands.
(b) [Reserved]
[59 FR 19107, Apr. 21, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 68728, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30903, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.2
Terminology.
(a) With the exception of those terms defined in paragraph (b) of this section, the terms used in this part shall follow the definitions contained in section 6 of Executive Order 11988, section 7 of Executive Order 11990, and the “Guidelines for Implementing Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, and Executive Order 13690, Establishing a Federal Flood Risk Management Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and Considering Stakeholder Input”; the terms “special flood hazard area,” “criteria,” and “Regular Program” shall follow the definitions contained in FEMA regulations at 44 CFR 59.1; and the terms “Letter of Map Revision” and “Letter of Map Amendment” shall refer to letters issued by FEMA, as provided in 44 CFR part 65 and 44 CFR part 70, respectively.
(b) For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Coastal high hazard area
means the area subject to high velocity waters, including but not limited to hurricane wave wash or tsunamis. The area is designated on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS) under FEMA regulations, or according to best available information. (See § 55.8(b) for appropriate data sources.)
(2)
Compensatory mitigation
means the restoration (reestablishment or rehabilitation), establishment (creation), enhancement, and/or, in certain circumstances, preservation of aquatic resources for the purposes of offsetting unavoidable adverse impacts that remain after all appropriate and practicable avoidance and minimization have been achieved. Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i)
Permittee-responsible mitigation:
On-site or off-site mitigation undertaken by the holder of a wetlands permit under section 404 of the Clean Water Act (or an authorized agent or contractor), for which the permittee retains full responsibility;
(ii)
Mitigation banking:
A permittee's purchase of credits from a wetlands mitigation bank, comprising wetlands that have been set aside to compensate for conversions of other wetlands; the mitigation obligation is transferred to the sponsor of the mitigation bank; and
(iii)
In-lieu fee mitigation:
A permittee's provision of funds to an in-lieu fee sponsor (public agency or nonprofit organization) that builds and maintains a mitigation site, often after the permitted adverse wetland impacts have occurred; the mitigation obligation is transferred to the in-lieu fee sponsor.
(3)(i)
Critical action
means any activity for which even a slight chance of flooding would be too great, because such flooding might result in loss of life, injury to persons, or damage to property. Critical actions include activities that create, maintain or extend the useful life of those structures or facilities that:
(A) Produce, use or store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic or water-reactive materials;
(B) Provide essential and irreplaceable records or utility or emergency services that may become lost or inoperative during flood and storm events (
e.g.,
community stormwater management infrastructure, water treatment plants, data storage centers, generating plants, principal utility lines,
emergency operations centers including fire and police stations, and roadways providing sole egress from flood-prone areas); or
(C) Are likely to contain occupants who may not be sufficiently mobile to avoid loss of life or injury during flood or storm events,
e.g.,
persons who reside in hospitals, nursing homes, convalescent homes, intermediate care facilities, board and care facilities, and retirement service centers. Housing for independent living for the elderly is not considered a critical action.
(ii) Critical actions shall not be approved in floodways, LiMWAs, or coastal high hazard areas unless they meet an exception at § 55.8 or § 55.21.
(4)
Federal Flood Risk Management Standard (FFRMS) floodplain
means the floodplain as defined by Executive Order 13690 and the Guidelines for Implementing Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, and Executive Order 13690, Establishing a Federal Flood Risk Management Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and Considering Stakeholder Input and further described as applied to HUD-assisted activities by § 55.7 of this part.
(5)
0.2-percent-annual-chance (500-year) floodplain
means the area, including the base flood elevation, subject to inundation from a flood having a 0.2 percent chance or greater of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. (See § 55.8(b) for appropriate data sources).
(6)
Floodway
means that portion of the floodplain which is effective in carrying flow, where the flood hazard is generally the greatest, and where water depths and velocities are the highest. The term “floodway” as used here is consistent with “regulatory floodways” as identified by FEMA. (See § 55.8(b) for appropriate data sources.)
(7)
Functionally dependent use
means a land use that must necessarily be conducted in close proximity to water (
e.g.,
a dam, marina, port facility, water-front park, and many types of bridges).
(8)
High hazard area
means a floodway or a coastal high hazard area.
(9)
Impervious surface area
means an improved surface that measurably reduces the rate of water infiltration below the rate that would otherwise be provided by the soil present in a location prior to improvement, based on the soil type identified either by the Natural Resource Conservation Service Soil Survey or geotechnical study. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, unperforated concrete or asphalt ground cover, unvegetated roofing materials, and other similar treatments that impede infiltration.
(10)
Limit of Moderate Wave Action (LiMWA)
means the inland limit of the portion of Coastal A Zone where wave heights can be between 1.5 and 3 feet during a base flood event, subjecting properties to damage from waves and storm surge. (See § 55.8(b) for appropriate data sources.)
(11)
1-percent-annual-chance (100-year) floodplain
means the area subject to inundation from a flood having a one percent or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. (See § 55.8(b) for appropriate data sources.)
(12)
Substantial improvement
—(i)
Substantial improvement
means either:
(A) Any repair, reconstruction, modernization, or improvement of a structure, including a manufactured housing unit, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either:
(
1
) Before the improvement or repair is started; or
(
2
) If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage occurred; or
(B) Any repair, reconstruction, modernization, or improvement of a structure, including a manufactured housing unit, that results in an increase of more than twenty percent in the number of dwelling units in a residential project or in the average peak number of customers and employees likely to be on-site at any one time for a commercial or industrial project.
(ii)
Substantial improvement
may not be defined to include either:
(A) Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications that is solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
(B) Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historical Places or on a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(iii) Structural repairs, reconstruction, or improvements not meeting this definition are considered “minor improvements”.
(13)
Wetlands
means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water with a frequency sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does or would support, a prevalence of vegetative or aquatic life that requires saturated or seasonally saturated soil conditions for growth and reproduction. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas such as sloughs, prairie potholes, wet meadows, river overflows, mud flats, and natural ponds. This definition includes those wetland areas separated from their natural supply of water as a result of activities such as the construction of structural flood protection methods or solid fill roadbeds and activities such as mineral extraction and navigation improvements. This definition includes both wetlands subject to and those not subject to Section 404 of the Clean Water Act as well as constructed wetlands.
[59 FR 19107, Apr. 21, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 68729, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30904, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.3
Assignment of responsibilities.
(a)
General.
The implementation of Executive Orders 11988 and 11990 under this part shall be conducted by HUD for Department-administered programs subject to environmental review under 24 CFR part 50 and by authorized responsible entities that are responsible for environmental review under 24 CFR part 58.
(b)(1)
The Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development (CPD)
shall oversee:
(i) The Department's implementation of Executive Orders 11988 and 11990 and this part in all HUD programs; and
(ii) The implementation activities of HUD program managers and, for HUD financial assistance subject to 24 CFR part 58, of grant recipients and responsible entities.
(2) In performing these responsibilities, the Assistant Secretary for CPD shall make pertinent policy determinations in cooperation with appropriate program offices and provide necessary assistance, training, publications, and procedural guidance.
(c)
Other HUD Assistant Secretaries, the General Counsel, and the President of the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA)
shall:
(1) Ensure compliance with this part for all actions under their jurisdiction that are proposed to be conducted, supported, or permitted in a floodplain or wetland, including taking full responsibility for all decisions made under their jurisdiction that are made pursuant to § 55.20 for environmental reviews completed pursuant to 24 CFR part 50;
(2) Ensure that actions approved by HUD or responsible entities are monitored and that any prescribed mitigation is implemented;
(3) Ensure that the offices under their jurisdiction have the resources to implement the requirements of this part; and
(4) Incorporate in departmental regulations, handbooks, and project and site standards those criteria, standards, and procedures related to compliance with this part.
(d)
Responsible entity Certifying Officer.
Certifying Officers of responsible entities administering or reviewing activities subject to 24 CFR part 58 shall comply with this part in carrying out HUD-assisted programs. Certifying Officers shall monitor approved actions and ensure that any prescribed mitigation is implemented.
(e)
Grantees and applicants.
Grantees and Applicants that are not acting as responsible entities shall:
(1) Supply HUD (or the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58) with all available, relevant information necessary for HUD (or the responsible entity) to perform the compliance required by this part, including environmental review record documentation described in 24 CFR 58.38, as applicable;
(2) Implement mitigating measures required by HUD (or the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58) under this part or select alternate eligible property; and
(3) Monitor approved actions and ensure that any prescribed mitigation is implemented.
(f)
Third party providers.
Consultants and other parties to the environmental
review process may prepare maps, studies (
e.g.,
hydraulic and hydrologic studies), and reports to support compliance with this part, including identification of floodplains and wetlands and development of alternatives or minimization measures. The following responsibilities, however, may not be delegated to the third-party provider:
(1) Receipt of public or agency comments;
(2) Selection or rejection of alternatives analyzed in Step 3 of the 8-step decision making process in § 55.20;
(3) Selection or rejection of minimization measures analyzed in Step 5 of the 8-step decision making process in § 55.20;
(4) Determination whether avoidance of floodplain or wetland impacts, according to the purpose of Executive Orders 11988 and 11990, is or is not practicable.
[59 FR 19107, Apr. 21, 1994, as amended at78 FR 68730, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30905, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.4
Notification of floodplain hazard.
(a)
Notification for property owners, buyers, and developers.
For actions in the FFRMS floodplain (as defined in § 55.7), HUD (or HUD's designee) or the responsible entity must ensure that any party participating in the transaction is notified that the property is in the FFRMS floodplain and whether flood insurance is required or available in this location. Notification shall also include a description of the approximate elevation of the FFRMS floodplain, proximity to flood-related infrastructure impacting the site including dams and levees, the location of ingress and egress or evacuation routes relative to the FFRMS floodplain, disclosure of information on flood insurance claims filed on the property to the extent available from FEMA, and other relevant information such as available emergency notification resources.
(b)
Renter notification.
For HUD-assisted, HUD-acquired, and HUD-insured rental properties within the FFRMS floodplain, new and renewal leases must include acknowledgements signed by residents indicating that they have been advised that the property is in a floodplain and flood insurance is available for their personal property. Notification shall also include the location of ingress and egress routes relative to the FFRMS floodplain, available emergency notification resources, and the property's emergency procedures for residents in the event of flooding.
(c)
Conveyance restrictions for the disposition of multifamily real property.
(1) In the disposition (including leasing) of multifamily properties acquired by HUD that are located in the FFRMS floodplain, the documents used for the conveyance must:
(i) Refer to those uses that are restricted under identified Federal, State, or local floodplain regulations; and
(ii) Include any land use restrictions limiting the use of the property by a grantee or purchaser and any successors under State or local laws.
(2)(i) For disposition of multifamily properties acquired by HUD that are located in the FFRMS floodplain and contain critical actions, HUD shall, as a condition of approval of the disposition, require by covenant or comparable restriction on the property's use that the property owner and successive owners provide written notification to each current and prospective tenant concerning:
(A) The hazards to life and to property for those persons who reside or work in a structure located within the FFRMS floodplain, and
(B) The availability of flood insurance on the contents of their dwelling unit or business.
(ii) The notice described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section shall also be posted in the building so that it will be legible at all times and easily visible to all persons entering or using the building.
[89 FR 30905, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.5
Flood insurance.
(a)(1) As required by section 102(a) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4012a), when HUD financial assistance (including mortgage insurance) is proposed for acquisition or construction purposes in any special flood hazard area (as designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) on an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS)), structures for which HUD financial assistance is provided must be covered by flood insurance in an amount at least equal to the project cost less estimated land cost, the outstanding principal balance of any HUD-assisted or HUD-insured loan, or the maximum limit of coverage available under the National Flood Insurance Program, whichever is least. Under section 202(a) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, 42 U.S.C. 4106(a), such proposed assistance in any special flood hazard area shall not be approved in communities identified by FEMA as eligible for flood insurance but which are not participating in the National Flood Insurance Program. This prohibition only applies to proposed HUD financial assistance in a FEMA-designated special flood hazard area one year after the community has been formally notified by FEMA of the designation of the affected area. This requirement is not applicable to HUD financial assistance in the form of formula grants to States, including financial assistance under the State-administered CDBG Program (24 CFR part 570, subpart I), Emergency Solutions Grant amounts allocated to States (24 CFR part 576), and HOME funds provided to a State under Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12701-12839). HUD strongly encourages that flood insurance be obtained and maintained for all HUD-assisted structures in the FFRMS floodplain, sites that have previously flooded, or sites in close proximity to a floodplain.
(2) Under section 582 of the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 5154a), HUD disaster assistance that is made available in a special flood hazard area may not be used to make a payment (including any loan assistance payment) to a person for repair, replacement, or restoration of damage to any personal, residential, or commercial property if:
(i) The person had previously received Federal flood disaster assistance conditioned on obtaining and maintaining flood insurance; and
(ii) The person failed to obtain and maintain the flood insurance.
(b) HUD or the responsible entity may impose flood insurance requirements that exceed the minimums established by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 or by Tribal, State, or local requirements when needed to minimize financial risk from flood hazards. HUD and responsible entities have discretion to require that flood insurance be maintained for structures outside of the FEMA-mapped floodplain but within the FFRMS floodplain and/or that structures be insured up to the full replacement cost of the structure when needed to minimize financial risk from flood hazards. Nothing in this part limits additional flood insurance requirements that may be imposed by a mortgagee participating in a HUD assistance or mortgage insurance or guarantee program.
[89 FR 30905, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.6
Complying with this part.
(a)
Process.
The process to comply with this part is as follows:
(1) HUD or the responsible entity shall determine whether compliance with this part is required. Refer to § 55.12 for a list of activities that do not require further compliance with this part beyond the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) HUD or the responsible entity shall refer to § 55.8 to determine whether the proposed action is eligible for HUD assistance or if it must be rejected as proposed.
(3) If the project requires compliance under this part and is not prohibited by § 55.8, HUD or the responsible entity shall refer to § 55.13 to determine whether the 8-step decision making process in § 55.20 is required.
(4) HUD or the responsible entity shall refer to § 55.10 to determine whether the 8-step decision making process in § 55.20 for wetland protection is required or whether best practices to minimize potential indirect impacts to wetlands should be pursued.
(5) HUD or the responsible entity shall determine whether an exception in § 55.14 applies that would allow them to complete an abbreviated decision-making process under § 55.20.
(6) Where the decision-making process is required, HUD or the responsible entity shall follow the decision-making
process described in § 55.20, eliminating any steps as permitted under § 55.14.
(b)
Decision making.
HUD or the responsible entity shall determine whether to approve the action as proposed, approve the action with modifications or at an alternative site, or reject the proposed action, based on its analysis of the proposed risks and impacts. HUD or the responsible entity has discretion to reject any project where it determines that the level of flood hazard is incompatible with the proposed use of the site or that the extent of impacts to wetlands or to the beneficial function of floodplains is not acceptable, regardless of whether it would otherwise be acceptable under this part.
(c)
Other requirements.
Refer to §§ 55.4 and 55.5 to determine whether the proposed action may require notifications and/or flood insurance. Actions that do not require full compliance under this part may still trigger notification and flood insurance requirements.
(d)
Documentation.
HUD or the responsible entity shall require that all of the analysis required under this part, including applicable exceptions and all required steps described in § 55.20, be documented in the environmental review record.
[89 FR 30905, Apr. 23, 2024]

# Subpart B—Application of Executive Orders on Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands
§ 55.7
Identifying the FFRMS floodplain.
(a) HUD or the responsible entity shall determine all compliance with the floodplain review requirements of this part based on the FFRMS floodplain.
(b) For a non-critical action, HUD or the responsible entity shall define the FFRMS floodplain using the following process:
(1) The climate-informed science approach (CISA) to identify the area having an elevated flood risk during the anticipated life of the project if data is available and actionable. Data is available and actionable for a particular project where:
(i) The data can be accessed via a tool, resource, or other process developed or identified by a Federal agency or agencies to define the floodplain using the CISA, and
(ii) HUD has adopted the particular tool, resource, or other process through a
Federal Register
publication for comment.
(2) If CISA data is not available or actionable but FEMA has defined the 0.2-percent-annual-chance floodplain, those areas that FEMA has designated as within the 0.2-percent-annual-chance floodplain; or
(3) If neither CISA data nor FEMA-mapped 0.2-percent-annual-chance floodplain data is available, those areas that result from adding an additional two feet to the base flood elevation as established by the effective FIRM or FIS or—if available—FEMA-provided interim or preliminary maps or studies or advisory base flood elevations.
(4) FFRMS floodplain determinations under paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section shall be made using the information provided in the latest FEMA resources. Elevation determinations based on CISA data or an interim or preliminary FEMA map cannot be used as a basis for a lower elevation than the base flood elevation on the current FIRM or FIS.
(c) For a critical action, the FFRMS floodplain is either:
(1) Those areas designated as having an elevated flood risk identified by the climate-informed science approach (CISA)—as determined based on the criticality of the action—during the anticipated life of the project if the data is available and actionable, as available and actionable is described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or
(2) If CISA data as described above is not available or actionable, an area either within the 0.2-percent-annual-chance floodplain or within the area that results from adding an additional three feet to the base flood elevation. The larger floodplain and higher elevation must be applied where the 0.2-percent-annual-chance floodplain is mapped. If FEMA resources do not map the 0.2-percent-annual-chance floodplain, the FFRMS floodplain is the
area that results from adding an additional three feet to the base flood elevation based on best available information.
(3) FFRMS floodplain determinations under paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be made using the information provided in the latest FEMA resources.
(d) If CISA data is not available or actionable and if FEMA FIRMS, FIS, preliminary maps or advisory base flood elevations are unavailable or insufficiently detailed to determine base flood elevation, other Federal, Tribal, State, or local data shall be used as “best available information.” If best available information is based only on past flooding and does not consider future flood risk:
(1) For non-critical actions, the FFRMS floodplain includes those areas that result from adding an additional two feet to the base flood elevation based on best available information.
(2) For critical actions, the FFRMS floodplain includes those areas that result from adding an additional three feet to the base flood elevation based on best available information.
(e) When preparing an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), an analysis of the best available, actionable climate science, where available and actionable data exists or can be generated in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 4336(b)(3), as determined by HUD or the responsible entity, must be performed to define the FFRMS floodplain. These sources may supplement the FIRM or Advisory Base Flood Elevation (ABFE) in order to better minimize impacts to projects or to elevate or floodproof structures above the risk adjusted floodplain. These sources may not be used as a basis for a lower elevation than otherwise required under this section.
(f)(1) Regardless of whether HUD has adopted a particular tool, resource, or other process to define the floodplain using CISA, as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section, HUD or a responsible entity may voluntarily define the FFRMS floodplain utilizing CISA when:
(i) A State, Tribal, or local government formally adopts, through code or other formal adoption measures, a tool, resource, or other written standard developed or utilized by the State, Tribal, or local government that provides data or other methods to identify the FFRMS floodplain using CISA for a particular project; or
(ii) HUD publishes guidance identifying a particular tool, resource, or other process that may be used to define the floodplain using CISA, and the tool, resource, or other process identified in the HUD-published guidance contains the necessary data or information to define the floodplain for the project being considered.
(2)(i) The approach in this paragraph (f) may not be used as a basis for a lower elevation than the lowest of:
(A) The 0.2-percent-annual-chance floodplain elevation;
(B) The elevation that results from adding an additional two feet to the base flood elevation; or
(C) The elevation required by paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, if CISA data is available and actionable under paragraph (b)(1) or (c)(1).
(ii) Where HUD or a responsible entity voluntarily defines the FFRMS floodplain using the options in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, the criticality of the action must be considered when determining the appropriate elevation of the FFRMS floodplain.
[89 FR 30906, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.8
Limitations on HUD assistance in floodplains.
(a) HUD financial assistance (including mortgage insurance) may not be approved with respect to:
(1) Any action located in a floodway unless one of the following applies:
(i) An exception listed in § 55.12 applies; or
(ii) A permanent covenant or comparable restriction will preserve all onsite FFRMS floodplain and/or wetland areas from future development or expansion of existing uses in the floodplain and/or wetland areas. Any rehabilitation, including reconstruction in the case of properties affected by Presidentially declared disasters, that does not expand the footprint of the buildings or the number of units on the site would be allowed within the FFRMS floodplain outside of the floodway. No buildings or improvements may modify
or occupy the floodway, with the exception of:
(A) Functionally dependent uses (as defined in § 55.2(b)(7)) and utility lines;
(B) De minimis improvements, including minimal ground disturbance or placement of impervious surface area to ensure accessibility where this is permitted by local ordinances and does not increase flood risk to the property; or
(C) Buildings and improvements that will be removed as part of the proposed action.
(2) Any critical action located in a floodway, other than a functionally dependent use where any existing or new structure has been or will be elevated or floodproofed to the FFRMS elevation for critical actions; or any critical action in a coastal high hazard area or LiMWA, other than a functionally dependent use where any existing or new structure has been or will be elevated and constructed in accordance with current FEMA V-zone construction standards at 44 CFR 60.3(e); provided that, for a critical action that is insurance of a mortgage on a property containing a floodway with no structures or improvements in the floodway, paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies; or
(3) Any noncritical action located in a coastal high hazard area, or LiMWA, unless the action is a functionally dependent use, is limited to existing structures or improvements, or is reconstruction following destruction caused by a Presidentially declared disaster. If the action is not a functionally dependent use, the action must be designed for location in a coastal high hazard area. An action will be considered designed for a coastal high hazard area if:
(i) In the case of reconstruction following destruction caused by a disaster, or substantial improvement, the work meets the current standards for V zones in FEMA regulations (44 CFR 60.3(e)) and, if applicable, the Minimum Property Standards for such construction in 24 CFR 200.926d(c)(4)(iii); or
(ii) In the case of existing construction (including any minor improvements that are not substantial improvements):
(A) The work met FEMA elevation and construction standards for a coastal high hazard area (or if such a zone or such standards were not designated, the 1-percent-annual-chance floodplain) applicable at the time the original improvements were constructed; or
(B) If the original improvements were constructed before FEMA standards for the 1-percent-annual-chance floodplain became effective or before FEMA designated the location of the action as within the 1-percent-annual-chance floodplain, the work would meet at least the earliest FEMA standards for construction in the 1-percent-annual-chance floodplain.
(b) All determinations made pursuant to this section shall be based on the effective FIRM or FIS unless FEMA has provided more current information. When FEMA provides interim flood hazard data, such as ABFE or preliminary maps and studies, HUD or the responsible entity shall use the latest of these sources. However, a base flood elevation from an interim or preliminary source cannot be used if it is lower than the base flood elevation on the current FIRM and FIS.
(c) Where HUD assistance is proposed for actions subject to § 55.20 on structures designated by FEMA as Severe Repetitive Loss (SRL) properties, and FEMA has approved measures that if implemented would qualify the property for a status of “Mitigated” as to the SRL list, HUD or the responsible entity will ensure that FEMA-identified mitigation measures are identified and implemented as part of the decision making process under § 55.20(e).
[89 FR 30906, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.9
Identifying wetlands.
The following process shall be followed in making the wetlands determination:
(a) HUD or the responsible entity shall determine whether the action involves new construction that is located in or impacts a wetland.
(b) As primary screening, HUD or the responsible entity shall verify whether the project area is located in proximity to wetlands identified on the National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) and assess the site for visual indication of the presence of wetlands such as hydrology
(water), hydric soils, or wetland vegetation. Where the primary screening is inconclusive, potential wetlands should be further evaluated using one or more of the following methods:
(1) Consultation with the Department of the Interior, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), for information concerning the location, boundaries, scale, and classification of wetlands within the area.
(2) Reference to the Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) National Soil Survey (NSS), and any Tribal, State, or local information concerning the location, boundaries, scale, and classification of wetlands within the action area and further site study by the environmental review preparer with reference to Federal guidance on field identification of the biological (rather than jurisdictional) characteristics of wetlands.
(3) Evaluation by a qualified wetlands scientist to delineate the wetland boundaries on site.
[89 FR 30906, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.10
Limitations on HUD assistance in wetlands.
(a) When the proposed project includes new construction activities (including grading, clearing, draining, filling, diking, impounding, and related activities for any structure or facilities including the siting of new manufactured housing units) that will have a direct impact to onsite wetlands identified by the process described in § 55.9, compliance with this part requires completion of the 8-step decision making process in § 55.20 to address wetland impacts.
(b) When the proposed project may indirectly affect wetlands by modifying the flow of stormwater, releasing pollutants, or otherwise changing conditions that contribute to wetlands viability, the significance of these impacts must be evaluated and the impacts minimized through best management practices. If the project site includes wetlands that will not be impacted by new construction, HUD strongly encourages measures to preserve such wetlands from future impacts, including by obtaining a restrictive covenant, conservation easement, or other mechanism.
(c) When the proposed project may indirectly affect off-site wetlands, impacts should be minimized to the extent practicable. While this part does not require further decision making to address these effects under the authority of Executive Order 11990, measures to address offsite wetlands impacts may be necessary to comply with related laws and authorities including the Endangered Species Act or to address significant impacts under the National Environmental Policy Act.
[89 FR 30908, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.11
[Reserved]
§ 55.12
Inapplicability of 24 CFR part 55 to certain categories of proposed actions.
With the exception of the flood insurance requirements in § 55.5, this part shall not apply to the following categories of proposed HUD actions:
(a) HUD-assisted activities described in 24 CFR 58.34 and 58.35(b);
(b) HUD-assisted activities described in 24 CFR 50.19, except as otherwise indicated in § 50.19;
(c) The approval of financial assistance for restoring and preserving the natural and beneficial functions and values of floodplains and wetlands, including through acquisition of such floodplain and wetland property, where a permanent covenant or comparable restriction is placed on the property's continued use for flood control, wetland protection, open space, or park land, but only if:
(1) The property is cleared of all existing buildings and walled structures; and
(2) The property is cleared of related improvements except those which:
(i) Are directly related to flood control, wetland protection, open space, or park land (including playgrounds and recreation areas);
(ii) Do not modify existing wetland areas or involve fill, paving, or other ground disturbance beyond minimal trails or paths; and
(iii) Are designed to be compatible with the beneficial floodplain or wetland function of the property.
(d) An action involving a repossession, receivership, foreclosure, or similar acquisition of property to protect or enforce HUD's financial interests under previously approved loans, grants, mortgage insurance, or other HUD assistance;
(e) Policy-level actions described at 24 CFR 50.16 that do not involve site-based decisions;
(f) A minor amendment to a previously approved action with no additional adverse impact on or from a floodplain or wetland;
(g) HUD's or the responsible entity's approval of a project site, an incidental portion of which is situated in the FFRMS floodplain (not including the floodway, LiMWA, or coastal high hazard area), but only if:
(1) The proposed project site does not include any existing or proposed buildings or improvements that modify or occupy the FFRMS floodplain except de minimis improvements such as recreation areas and trails; and
(2) The proposed project will not result in any new construction in or modifications of a wetland.
(h) Issuance or use of Housing Vouchers or other forms of rental subsidy where HUD, the awarding community, or the public housing agency that administers the contract awards rental subsidies that are not project-based (
i.e.,
do not involve site-specific subsidies);
(i) Special projects directed to the removal of material and architectural barriers that restrict the mobility of and accessibility to elderly and persons with disabilities.
[89 FR 30908, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.13
Inapplicability of 8-step decision making process to certain categories of proposed actions.
The decision-making process in § 55.20 shall not apply to the following categories of proposed actions:
(a) HUD's mortgage insurance actions and other financial assistance for the purchasing, mortgaging, or refinancing of existing one- to four-family properties in communities that are in the Regular Program of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and in good standing (
i.e.,
not suspended from program eligibility or placed on probation under 44 CFR 59.24), where the action is not a critical action and the property is not located in a floodway, coastal high hazard area, or LiMWA;
(b) Financial assistance for minor repairs or improvements on one- to four-family properties that do not meet the thresholds for “substantial improvement” under § 55.2(b)(12);
(c) HUD or a recipient's actions involving the disposition of individual HUD or recipient held one- to four-family properties;
(d) HUD guarantees under the Loan Guarantee Recovery Fund Program (24 CFR part 573), where any new construction or rehabilitation financed by the existing loan or mortgage has been completed prior to the filing of an application under the program, and the refinancing will not allow further construction or rehabilitation, nor result in any physical impacts or changes except for routine maintenance;
(e) The approval of financial assistance to lease an existing structure and/or units within an existing structure located within the floodplain, but only if;
(1) The structure is located outside the floodway or coastal high hazard area, and is in a community that is in the Regular Program of the NFIP and in good standing (
i.e.,
not suspended from program eligibility or placed on probation under 44 CFR 59.24);
(2) The project is not a critical action; and
(3) The entire structure is or will be fully insured or insured to the maximum extent available under the NFIP for at least the term of the lease.
(f) Special projects for the purpose of improving the energy or water efficiency of utilities or installing renewable energy that involve the repair, rehabilitation, modernization, weatherization, or improvement of existing structures or infrastructure, do not meet the thresholds for “substantial improvement” under § 55.2(b)(12), and do not include the installation of equipment below the FFRMS floodplain elevation; and
[89 FR 30909, Apr. 23, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 30909, Apr. 23, 2024, § 55.13 was added; the text provided ended with "; and".
§ 55.14
Modified 5-step decision making process for certain categories of proposed actions.
The decision making steps in § 55.20(b), (c), and (g) (Steps 2, 3, and 7) do not apply to the following categories of proposed actions:
(a) HUD's or the recipient's actions involving the disposition of acquired multifamily housing projects or “bulk sales” of HUD-acquired (or under part 58 of recipients') one- to four-family properties in communities that are in the Regular Program of the NFIP and in good standing (
i.e.,
not suspended from program eligibility or placed on probation under 44 CFR 59.24). For programs subject to part 58, this paragraph applies only to recipients' disposition activities that are subject to review under part 58.
(b) HUD's actions under the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) for the purchase or refinancing of existing multifamily housing projects, hospitals, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, board and care facilities, and intermediate care facilities, in communities that are in good standing under the NFIP.
(c) HUD's or the recipient's actions under any HUD program involving the repair, rehabilitation, modernization, weatherization, or improvement of existing multifamily housing projects, hospitals, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, board and care facilities, intermediate care facilities, and one- to four-family properties, in communities that are in the Regular Program of the NFIP and are in good standing (
i.e.,
not suspended from program eligibility or placed on probation under 44 CFR 59.24), provided that the number of units is not increased more than 20 percent, the action does not involve a conversion from nonresidential to residential land use, the action does not meet the thresholds for “substantial improvement” under § 55.2(b)(12), and the footprint of the structure and paved areas is not increased by more than 20 percent.
(d) HUD's or the recipient's actions under any HUD program involving the repair, rehabilitation, modernization, weatherization, or improvement of existing nonresidential buildings and structures, in communities that are in the Regular Program of the NFIP and are in good standing (
i.e.,
not suspended from program eligibility or placed on probation under 44 CFR 59.24), provided that the action does not meet the thresholds for “substantial improvement” under § 55.2(b)(12) and the footprint of the structure and paved areas is not increased by more than 20 percent.
(e) HUD's or the recipient's actions under any HUD program involving the repair, rehabilitation, or replacement of existing nonstructural improvements including streets, curbs, and gutters, where any increase of the total impervious surface area of the facility is de minimis. This provision does not include critical actions, levee systems, chemical storage facilities (including any tanks), wastewater facilities, or sewer lagoons.
[89 FR 30909, Apr. 23, 2024]

# Subpart C—Procedures for Making Determinations on Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands
§ 55.16
Applicability of subpart C decision making process.
Table 1 to this section indicates the applicability, by location and type of action, of the decision making process for implementing Executive Order 11988 and Executive Order 11990 under this subpart.
Table 1 to § 55.16
Type of proposed action
(new reviewable action or an amendment)
1
Floodways
Coastal high hazard and LiMWA areas
Wetlands or FFRMS
floodplain outside coastal high hazard area, LiMWA area, and floodways
Critical actions as defined in § 55.2(b)(3)
Critical actions not allowed unless they meet the requirements for critical actions in § 55.8 and are processed under § 55.20
2
Critical actions not allowed unless they meet the requirements for critical actions in § 55.8 and are processed under § 55.20
2
Allowed if the proposed critical action is processed under § 55.20.
2
Noncritical actions not excluded under § 55.12 or § 55.13
Allowed only if the proposed non-critical action is not prohibited under § 55.8(a)(1) and is processed under § 55.20
2
Allowed only if the proposed noncritical action is processed under § 55.20
2
and is (1) a functionally dependent use, (2) existing construction (including improvements), or (3) reconstruction following destruction caused by a disaster. If the action is not a functionally dependent use, the action must be designed for location in a coastal high hazard area under § 55.8(a)(3)
Allowed if proposed noncritical action is processed under § 55.20.
2
1
Under Executive Order 11990, the decision making process in § 55.20 only applies to Federal assistance for new construction in wetlands locations.
2
Or those paragraphs of § 55.20 that are applicable to an action listed in § 55.14.
[89 FR 30910, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.20
Decision making process.
Except for actions covered by § 55.14, the decision making process for compliance with this part contains eight steps, including public notices and an examination of practicable alternatives when addressing floodplains and wetlands. Third parties may provide analysis and information to support the decision making process; however, final determinations for each step, authorization of public notices, and receipt of public comments, are the responsibility of HUD or the responsible entity. The steps to be followed in the decision making process are as follows:
(a)
Step 1.
Using the processes described in §§ 55.7 and 55.9, determine whether the proposed action is located in the FFRMS floodplain or results in new construction that directly impacts an onsite wetland. If the action does not occur in the FFRMS floodplain or include new construction directly impacting an onsite wetland, then no further compliance with this section is required. Where the proposed action would be located in the FFRMS floodplain and includes new construction directly impacting an onsite wetland, these impacts should be evaluated together in a single 8-step decision making process. In such a case, the wetland will be considered among the primary natural and beneficial functions and values of the floodplain. For purposes of this section, an “action” includes areas required for ingress and egress, even if they are not within the site boundary, and other integral components of the proposed action, even if they are not within the site boundary.
(b)
Step 2.
Notify the public and agencies responsible for floodplain management or wetlands protection at the earliest possible time of a proposal to consider an action in an FFRMS floodplain or wetland and involve the affected and interested public and agencies in the decision making process.
(1) The public notices required by paragraphs (b) and (g) of this section may be combined with other project notices wherever appropriate. Notices required under this part must be bilingual or multilingual, as appropriate, if the affected public has Limited English Proficiency. In addition, all notices must be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected community or on an appropriate government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency, and must be sent to Federal, State, and local public agencies, organizations,
and, where not otherwise covered, individuals known to be interested in the proposed action.
(2) A minimum of 15 calendar days shall be allowed for comment on the public notice. The first day of a time period begins at 12:01 a.m. local time on the day following the publication or the mailing and posting date of the notice which initiates the time period.
(3) A notice under this paragraph shall state: The name, proposed location, and description of the activity; the total number of acres of floodplain or wetland involved; the related natural and beneficial functions and values of the floodplain or wetland that may be adversely affected by the proposed activity; the HUD approving official (or the Certifying Officer of the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58); and the phone number to call for information. The notice shall indicate the hours of HUD's or the responsible entity's office, and any Web site at which a full description of the proposed action may be reviewed.
(4) When the proposed activity is located in or affects a community with environmental justice concerns, public comment and decision making under this part shall be coordinated with consultation and decision making under HUD policies implementing 24 CFR 58.5(j) or 50.4(l).
(c)
Step 3.
Identify and evaluate practicable alternatives to locating the proposed action in the FFRMS floodplain or wetland.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, HUD's or the responsible entity's consideration of practicable alternatives to the proposed site selected for a project should include:
(i) Locations outside and not affecting the FFRMS floodplain or wetland;
(ii) Alternative methods to serve the identical project objective, including but not limited to design alternatives such as repositioning or reconfiguring proposed siting of structures and improvements or incorporating natural systems, ecosystem processes, and nature-based solutions to avoid floodplain and wetland impacts; and
(iii) A determination not to approve any action proposing the occupancy or modification of a floodplain or wetland.
(2) Practicability of alternatives should be addressed in light of the goals identified in the project description related to the following:
(i) Natural values such as topography, habitat, and hazards;
(ii) Social values such as aesthetics, historic and cultural values, land use patterns, and environmental justice; and
(iii) Economic values such as the cost of space, construction, services, relocation, potential property losses from flooding, and cost of flood insurance.
(3) For multifamily and healthcare projects involving HUD mortgage insurance that are initiated by third parties, HUD in its consideration of practicable alternatives is not required to consider alternative sites, but must include consideration of:
(i) A determination to approve the request without modification;
(ii) A determination to approve the request with modification; and
(iii) A determination not to approve the request.
(d)
Step 4.
Identify and evaluate the potential direct and indirect impacts associated with the occupancy or modification of the FFRMS floodplain or the wetland and the potential direct and indirect support of floodplain and wetland development that could result from the proposed action, including impacts related to future climate-related flood levels, sea level rise, and the related increased value of beneficial floodplain and wetland functions.
(1)
Floodplain evaluation.
The floodplain evaluation for the proposed action must evaluate floodplain characteristics (both existing and as proposed for modification by the project) to determine potential adverse impacts to lives, property, and natural and beneficial floodplain values as compared with alternatives identified in Step 3.
(i) Floodplain characteristics include:
(A) Identification of portions of the site that are subject to flood risk, documented through mapping and, as required by § 55.7(e) or commensurate with the scale of the project and available resources as permitted by § 55.7(f), climate-informed analysis of factors
including development patterns, streamflow, and hydrologic and hydraulic modeling;
(B) Topographic information that can inform flooding patterns and distance to flood sources, as described in flood mapping, Flood Insurance Studies, and other data sources; and
(C) Public safety communications and data related to flood risk including available information on structures such as dams, levees, or other flood protection infrastructure located in proximity to the site.
(ii) Impacts to lives and property include:
(A) Potential loss of life, injury, or hardship to residents of the subject property during a flood event;
(B) Damage to the subject property during a flood event;
(C) Damage to surrounding properties from increased runoff or reduction in floodplain function during a flood event due to modification of the subject site;
(D) Health impacts due to exposure to toxic substance releases that may be caused or exacerbated by flood events; and
(E) Damage to a community as a result of project failure (
e.g.,
failure of stormwater management infrastructure due to scouring).
(iii) Impacts to natural and beneficial values include changes to:
(A) Water resources such as natural moderation of floods, water quality maintenance, and groundwater recharge;
(B) Living resources such as flora and fauna (if the project requires consultation under 24 CFR 50.4(e) or 58.5(e), consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or National Marine Fisheries Service must include a description of impacts evaluated under this part);
(C) Cultural resources such as archaeological, historic, aesthetic and recreational aspects; and
(D) Agricultural, aquacultural, and forestry resources.
(2)
Wetland evaluation.
In accordance with section 5 of Executive Order 11990, the decision maker shall consider factors relevant to a proposal's effect on the survival and quality of the wetland. Factors that must be evaluated include, but are not limited to:
(i) Public health, safety, and welfare, including water supply, quality, recharge, and discharge; pollution; flood and storm hazards and hazard protection; and sediment and erosion, including the impact of increased quantity or velocity of stormwater runoff on, or to areas outside of, the proposed site;
(ii) Maintenance of natural systems, including conservation and long-term productivity of existing flora and fauna; species and habitat diversity and stability; natural hydrologic function; wetland type; fish; wildlife; timber; and food and fiber resources;
(iii) Cost increases attributed to wetland-required new construction and mitigation measures to minimize harm to wetlands that may result from such use; and
(iv) Other uses of wetlands in the public interest, including recreational, scientific, and cultural uses.
(e)
Step 5.
Where practicable, design or modify the proposed action to minimize the potential adverse impacts to and from the FFRMS floodplain or wetland and to restore and preserve their natural and beneficial functions and values.
(1)
Elevation.
For actions in the FFRMS floodplain, the required elevation described in this section must be documented on an Elevation Certificate or a Floodproofing Certificate in the Environmental Review Record prior to construction, or by such other means as HUD may from time to time direct, provided that notwithstanding any language to the contrary, the minimum elevation or floodproofing requirement for new construction or substantial improvement actions shall be the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain as defined in this section.
(i) If a residential structure undergoing new construction or substantial improvement is located in the FFRMS floodplain, the lowest floor or FEMA-approved equivalent must be designed using the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain as the baseline standard for elevation, except where higher elevations are required by Tribal, State, or locally adopted code or standards, in which case those higher elevations apply. Where non-elevation standards
such as setbacks or other flood risk reduction standards that have been issued to identify, communicate, or reduce the risks and costs of floods are required by Tribal, State, or locally adopted code or standards, those standards shall apply in addition to the FFRMS baseline elevation standard.
(ii) New construction and substantial improvement of residential structures that have no dwelling units below the FFRMS floodplain and that are not critical actions as defined at § 55.2(b)(3), or of non-residential structures, shall be designed either:
(A) With the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain; or
(B) With the structure floodproofed at least up to the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain. Floodproofing standards are as stated in FEMA's regulations at 44 CFR 60.3(c)(3)(ii) and (c)(4)(i), or such other regulatory standard as FEMA may issue, and applicable guidance, except that where the standard refers to base flood level, floodproofing is required at or above the FFRMS floodplain, as defined in this part.
(iii) The term “lowest floor” must be applied consistent with FEMA regulations in 44 CFR 59.1 and FEMA's Elevation Certificate guidance or other applicable current FEMA guidance.
(2)
Minimization.
Potential harm to or within the floodplain and/or wetland must be reduced to the smallest possible amount. E.O. 11988's requirement to minimize potential harm applies to the investment at risk or the flood loss potential of the action itself, the impact the action may have on others, and the impact the action may have on floodplain and wetland values. The record must include a discussion of all minimization techniques that will be incorporated into project designs as well as those that were considered but not approved. Minimization techniques for floodplain and wetlands purposes include, but are not limited to:
(i)
Stormwater management and green infrastructure:
The use of permeable surfaces; natural landscape enhancements that maintain or restore natural hydrology through infiltration, native plant species, bioswales, rain gardens, or evapotranspiration; stormwater capture and reuse; green or vegetative roofs with drainage provisions; WaterSense products; rain barrels and grey water diversion systems; protective gates or angled safety grates for culverts and stormwater drains; and other low impact development and green infrastructure strategies, technologies, and techniques. Where possible, use natural systems, ecosystem processes, and nature-based approaches when developing alternatives for consideration.
(ii)
Adjusting project footprint:
Evaluate options to relocate or redesign structures, amenities, and infrastructure to minimize the amount of impermeable surfaces and other impacts in the FFRMS floodplain or wetland. This may include changes such as designing structures to be taller and narrower or avoiding tree clearing to reduce potential erosion from flooding.
(iii)
Resilient building standards:
Consider implementing resilient building codes or standards to ensure a reliable and consistent level of safety.
(iv)
Severe Repetitive Loss (SRL) mitigation:
Identify and incorporate FEMA identified SRL mitigation as outlined in § 55.8(c), if applicable.
(3)
Restoration and preservation.
Restore means to reestablish a setting or environment in which the natural and beneficial values of floodplains and wetlands could again function. Where floodplain and wetland values have been degraded by past actions, restoration is informed by evaluation of the impacts of such actions on beneficial values of the floodplain or wetland and identification, evaluation, and implementation of practicable measures to restore the values diminished or lost. Preserve means to prevent modification to the natural floodplain or wetland environment or to maintain it as closely as possible to its natural state. If an action will result in harm to or within the floodplain or wetland, HUD or the responsible entity must ensure that the action is designed or modified to assure that it will be carried out in a manner which preserves as much of the natural and beneficial floodplain and values as is possible. Restoration and preservation techniques for floodplain and wetlands purposes include, but are not limited to:
(i) Natural Resource Conservation Service or other conservation easements;
(ii) Appropriate and practicable compensatory mitigation, which is required for unavoidable adverse impacts to more than one acre of wetlands. Compensatory mitigation includes but is not limited to: permittee-responsible mitigation, mitigation banking, in-lieu fee mitigation, the use of preservation easements or protective covenants, and any form of mitigation promoted by State or Federal agencies. The use of compensatory mitigation may not substitute for the requirement to avoid and minimize impacts to the maximum extent practicable.
(4)
Planning for residents' and occupants' safety.
(i) For multifamily residential properties and residential healthcare facilities, an evacuation plan must be developed that includes safe egress route(s) out of the FFRMS floodplain, plans for evacuating residents with special needs, and clear communication of the evacuation plan and safety resources for residents.
(ii) For all healthcare facilities, evacuation route(s) out of the FFRMS floodplain must be identified and clearly communicated to all residents and employees. Such actions must include a plan for emergency evacuation and relocation to a facility of like capacity that is equipped to provide required critical needs-related care and services at a level similar to the originating facility.
(iii) All critical actions in the FFRMS floodplain must operate and maintain an early warning system that serves all facility occupants.
(f)
Step 6.
HUD or the responsible entity shall consider the totality of the previous steps and the criteria in this section to make a decision as to whether to approve, approve with modifications, or reject the proposed action. Adverse impacts to floodplains and wetlands must be avoided if there is a practicable alternative. This analysis must consider:
(1) Whether the action is still practicable in light of exposure to flood hazards in the floodplain or wetland, possible adverse impacts on the floodplain or wetland, the extent to which it will aggravate the current hazards to other floodplains or wetlands, and the potential to disrupt the natural and beneficial functions and values of floodplains or wetlands; and
(2) Whether alternatives preliminarily rejected at Step 3 (paragraph (c)) of this section are practicable in light of information gained in Steps 4 and 5 (paragraphs (d) and (e)) of this section.
(i) The reevaluation of alternatives shall include the potential impacts avoided or caused inside and outside the floodplain or wetland area. The impacts should include the protection of human life, real property, and the natural and beneficial functions and values served by the floodplain or wetland.
(ii) A reevaluation of alternatives under this step should include a discussion of economic costs. For floodplains, the cost estimates should include savings or the costs of flood insurance, where applicable; flood proofing; replacement of services or functions of critical actions that might be lost; and elevation to at least the elevation of the FFRMS floodplain, as appropriate based on the applicable source under § 55.7. For wetlands, the cost estimates should include the cost of filling the wetlands and mitigation.
(iii) If the proposed activity is located in or affects a community with environmental justice concerns, the reevaluation must address public input provided during environmental justice outreach, if conducted, and must document the ways in which the activity, in light of information analyzed, mitigation measures applied, and alternatives selected, serves to reduce any historical environmental disparities related to flood risk or wetlands impacts in the community.
(g)
Step 7.
(1)If the reevaluation results in a determination that there is no practicable alternative to locating the proposal in the FFRMS floodplain or the wetland, publish a final notice that includes:
(i) The reasons why the proposal must be located in the floodplain or wetland;
(ii) A list of the alternatives considered in accordance with paragraphs(c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section; and
(iii) All mitigation measures to be taken to minimize adverse impacts and to restore and preserve natural and beneficial functions and values.
(2) In addition, the public notice procedures of § 55.20(b)(1) shall be followed, and a minimum of 7 calendar days for public comment before approval of the proposed action shall be provided.
(h)
Step 8.
Upon completion of the decisionmaking process in Steps 1 through 7, implement the proposed action. There is a continuing responsibility on HUD (or on the responsible entity authorized by 24 CFR part 58) and the recipient (if other than the responsible entity) to ensure that the mitigating measures identified in Step 7 are implemented.
[59 FR 19107, Apr. 21, 1994, as amended at 78 FR 68732, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30910, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 55.21
Alternate processing for existing nonconforming sites.
Notwithstanding the limitations on HUD assistance defined in § 55.8, in exceptional circumstances, the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development may approve HUD assistance or insurance to improve an existing property with ongoing HUD assistance or mortgage insurance if the following conditions are satisfied:
(a) HUD completes an environmental review pursuant to 24 CFR part 50, including the 8-step decision making process pursuant to § 55.20, that:
(1) Documents that it is not practicable to transfer the HUD assistance to a site with lower flood risk under existing program rules, financial limitations, and site availability; and
(2) Mandates measures to ensure that the elevated flood risk is the only environmental hazard or impact that does not comply or that requires mitigation to comply, with HUD's environmental requirements at 24 CFR parts 50, 51, 55, and 58; and
(b) The proposed project incorporates all practicable measures to minimize flood risk, preserve the function of the floodplain and any impacted wetlands as described in § 55.20(e), and increase the overall resilience of the site, as approved and/or required by HUD. At minimum, these measures must include:
(1) Removal of all residential units and critical action structures from the floodway;
(2) Identification of evacuation routes out of the FFRMS floodplain;
(3) A No-Rise Certification for any new improvements in the floodway; and
(4) Elevation (or floodproofing pursuant to § 55.20(e)(1)) of existing structures within the FFRMS Floodplain, where practicable.
[89 FR 30912, Apr. 23, 2024]
§§ 55.22-55.25
[Reserved]
§ 55.26
Adoption of another agency's review under the Executive orders.
If a proposed action covered under this part is already covered in a prior review performed under Executive Order 11988 or Executive Order 11990 by another agency, including HUD or a different responsible entity, that review may be adopted by HUD or by a responsible entity authorized under 24 CFR part 58 without further public notice, provided that:
(a) There is no pending litigation relating to the other agency's review for floodplain management or wetland protection;
(b) The adopting agency makes a finding that:
(1) The action currently proposed has not substantially changed in project description, scope, and magnitude from the action previously reviewed by the other agency; and
(2) There has been no material change in circumstances since the previous review was conducted; and
(c) HUD assistance must be conditioned on mitigation measures prescribed in the previous review.
[59 FR 19107, Apr. 21, 1994, as amended at78 FR 68734, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30913, Apr. 23, 2024]
§§ 55.27-55.28
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Severability
§ 55.30
Severability.
Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable as applied to any action should be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect
to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding is that the provision of this part is invalid and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision should be severable from the remainder of this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
[89 FR 30913, Apr. 23, 2024]
Pt. 58

# PART 58—ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCEDURES FOR ENTITIES ASSUMING HUD ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES

# Subpart A—Purpose, Legal Authority, Federal Laws and Authorities
Sec.
58.1
Purpose and applicability.
58.2
Terms, abbreviations and definitions.
58.4
Assumption authority.
58.5
Related Federal laws and authorities.
58.6
Other requirements.

# Subpart B—General Policy: Responsibilities of Responsible Entities
58.10
Basic environmental responsibility.
58.11
Legal capacity and performance.
58.12
Technical and administrative capacity.
58.13
Responsibilities of the certifying officer.
58.14
Interaction with State, Federal and non-Federal entities.
58.15
Tiering.
58.17
[Reserved]
58.18
Responsibilities of States assuming HUD environmental responsibilities.

# Subpart C—General Policy: Environmental Review Procedures
58.21
Time periods.
58.22
Limitations on activities pending clearance.
58.23
Financial assistance for environmental review.

# Subpart D—Environmental Review Process: Documentation, Range of Activities, Project Aggregation and Classification
58.30
Environmental review process.
58.32
Project aggregation.
58.33
Emergencies.
58.34
Exempt activities.
58.35
Categorical exclusions.
58.36
Environmental assessments.
58.37
Environmental impact statement determinations.
58.38
Environmental review record.

# Subpart E—Environmental Review Process: Environmental Assessments (EA's)
58.40
Preparing the environmental assessment.
58.43
Dissemination and/or publication of the findings of no significant impact.
58.45
Public comment periods.
58.46
Time delays for exceptional circumstances.
58.47
Re-evaluation of environmental assessments and other environmental findings.

# Subpart F—Environmental Review Process: Environmental Impact Statement Determinations
58.52
Adoption of other agencies' EISs.
58.53
Use of prior environmental impact statements.

# Subpart G—Environmental Review Process: Procedures for Draft, Final and Supplemental Environmental Impact Statements
58.55
Notice of intent to prepare an EIS.
58.56
Scoping process.
58.57
Lead agency designation.
58.59
Public hearings and meetings.
58.60
Preparation and filing of environmental impact statements.

# Subpart H—Release of Funds for Particular Projects
58.70
Notice of intent to request release of funds.
58.71
Request for release of funds and certification.
58.72
HUD or State actions on RROFs and certifications.
58.73
Objections to release of funds.
58.74
Time for objecting.
58.75
Permissible bases for objections.
58.76
Procedure for objections.
58.77
Effect of approval of certification.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1707 note, 1715z-13a(k); 25 U.S.C. 4115 and 4226; 42 U.S.C. 1437x, 3535(d), 3547, 4321-4336e, 4852, 5304(g), 12838, and 12905(h); title II of Pub. L. 105-276; E.O. 11514 as amended by E.O. 11991, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 123.

# Source:
61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose, Legal Authority, Federal Laws and Authorities
§ 58.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
This part provides instructions and guidance to recipients
of HUD assistance and other responsible entities for conducting an environmental review for a particular project or activity and for obtaining approval of a Request for Release of Funds.
(b)
Applicability.
This part applies to activities and projects where specific statutory authority exists for recipients or other responsible entities to assume environmental responsibilities. Programs and activities subject to this part include:
(1) Community Development Block Grant programs authorized by Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, in accordance with section 104(g) (42 U.S.C. 5304(g));
(2) [Reserved]
(3)(i) Grants to states and units of general local government under the Emergency Shelter Grant Program, Supportive Housing Program (and its predecessors, the Supportive Housing Demonstration Program (both Transitional Housing and Permanent Housing for Homeless Persons with Disabilities) and Supplemental Assistance for Facilities to Assist the Homeless), Shelter Plus Care Program, Safe Havens for Homeless Individuals Demonstration Program, and Rural Homeless Housing Assistance, authorized by Title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, in accordance with section 443 (42 U.S.C. 11402);
(ii) Grants beginning with Fiscal Year 2001 to private non-profit organizations and housing agencies under the Supportive Housing Program and Shelter Plus Care Program authorized by Title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, in accordance with section 443 (42 U.S.C. 11402);
(4) The HOME Investment Partnerships Program authorized by Title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (NAHA), in accordance with section 288 (42 U.S.C. 12838);
(5) Grants to States and units of general local government for abatement of lead-based paint and lead dust hazards pursuant to Title II of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992, and grants for lead-based paint hazard reduction under section 1011 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, in accordance with section 1011(o) (42 U.S.C. 4852(o));
(6)(i) Public Housing Programs under Title I of the United States Housing Act of 1937, including HOPE VI grants authorized under section 24 of the Act for Fiscal Year 2000 and later, in accordance with section 26 (42 U.S.C. 1437x);
(ii) Grants for the revitalization of severely distressed public housing (HOPE VI) for Fiscal Year 1999 and prior years, in accordance with Title II of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Pub. L. 105-276, approved October 21, 1998); and
(iii) Assistance administered by a public housing agency under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, except for assistance provided under part 886 of this title, in accordance with section 26 (42 U.S.C. 1437x);
(7) Special Projects appropriated under an appropriation act for HUD, such as special projects under the heading “Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing” in Title II of various Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Acts, in accordance with section 305(c) of the Multifamily Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 3547);
(8) The FHA Multifamily Housing Finance Agency Pilot Program under section 542(c) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, in accordance with section 542(c)(9)(12 U.S.C. 1707 note);
(9) The Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-120, 110 Stat. 834), in accordance with section 11(m));
(10) Assistance provided under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA), in accordance with:
(i) Section 105 for Indian Housing Block Grants and Federal Guarantees or Financing for Tribal Housing Authorities (25 U.S.C. 4115 and 4226); and
(ii) Section 806 for Native Hawaiian Housing Block Grants (25 U.S.C. 4226);
(11) Indian Housing Loan Guarantees authorized by section 184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 on trust land and on fee land within an Indian reservation, and on fee land owned by the Indian Tribe outside of the Tribe's Indian reservation boundaries, in accordance with section 184(k) (12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a(k)); and
(12) Grants for Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) under the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act, as follows: competitive grants beginning with Fiscal Year 2001 and all formula grants, in accordance with section 856(h) (42 U.S.C. 12905(h)); all grants for Fiscal Year 1999 and prior years, in accordance with section 207(c) of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (Pub. L. 105-276, approved October 21, 1998).
(c) When HUD assistance is used to help fund a revolving loan fund that is administered by a recipient or another party, the activities initially receiving assistance from the fund are subject to the requirements in this part. Future activities receiving assistance from the revolving loan fund, after the fund has received loan repayments, are subject to the environmental review requirements if the rules of the HUD program that initially provided assistance to the fund continue to treat the activities as subject to the Federal requirements. If the HUD program treats the activities as not being subject to any Federal requirements, then the activities cease to become Federally-funded activities and the provisions of this part do not apply.
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable laws and the applicable regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality, the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development may, for good cause and with appropriate conditions, approve waivers and exceptions or establish criteria for exceptions from the requirements of this part.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56127, Sept. 29, 2003; 89 FR 20056, Mar. 20, 2024]
§ 58.2
Terms, abbreviations and definitions.
(a) For the purposes of this part, the following definitions supplement the uniform terminology provided in 40 CFR part 1508:
(1)
Activity
means an action that a grantee or recipient puts forth as part of an assisted project, regardless of whether its cost is to be borne by the HUD assistance or is an eligible expense under the HUD assistance program.
(2)
Certifying Officer
means the official who is authorized to execute the Request for Release of Funds and Certification and has the legal capacity to carry out the responsibilities of § 58.13.
(3)
Extraordinary Circumstances
means a situation in which an environmental assessment (EA) or environmental impact statement (EIS) is not normally required, but due to unusual conditions, an EA or EIS is appropriate. Indicators of unusual conditions are:
(i) Actions that are unique or without precedent;
(ii) Actions that are substantially similar to those that normally require an EIS;
(iii) Actions that are likely to alter existing HUD policy or HUD mandates; or
(iv) Actions that, due to unusual physical conditions on the site or in the vicinity, have the potential for a significant impact on the environment or in which the environment could have a significant impact on users of the facility.
(4)
Project
means an activity, or a group of integrally related activities, designed by the recipient to accomplish, in whole or in part, a specific objective.
(5)
Recipient
means any of the following entities, when they are eligible recipients or grantees under a program listed in § 58.1(b):
(i) A State that does not distribute HUD assistance under the program to a unit of general local government;
(ii) Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and Palau;
(iii) A unit of general local government;
(iv) An Indian tribe;
(v) With respect to Public Housing Programs under § 58.1(b)(6)(i), fiscal year 1999 and prior HOPE VI grants under § 58.1(b)(6)(ii) or Section 8 assistance under § 58.1(b)(6)(iii), a public housing agency;
(vi) Any direct grantee of HUD for a special project under § 58.1(b)(7);
(vii) With respect to the FHA Multifamily Housing Finance Agency Program under 58.1(b)(8), a qualified housing finance agency;
(viii) With respect to the Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program under § 58.1(b)(9), any direct grantee of HUD.
(ix)(A) With respect to NAHASDA assistance under § 58.1(b)(10), the Indian tribe or the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands; and
(B) With respect to the Section 184 Indian Housing Loan Guarantee program under § 58.1(b)(11), the Indian tribe.
(x) With respect to the Shelter Plus Care and Supportive Housing Programs under § 58.1(b)(3)(ii), nonprofit organizations and other entities.
(6)
Release of funds.
In the case of the FHA Multifamily Housing Finance Agency Program under § 58.1(b)(8), Release of Funds, as used in this part, refers to HUD issuance of a firm approval letter, and Request for Release of Funds refers to a recipient's request for a firm approval letter. In the case of the Section 184 Indian Housing Loan Guarantee program under § 58.1(b)(11), Release of Funds refers to HUD's issuance of a commitment to guarantee a loan, or if there is no commitment, HUD's issuance of a certificate of guarantee.
(7)
Responsible Entity.
Responsible Entity means:
(i) With respect to environmental responsibilities under programs listed in § 58.1(b)(1), (2), (3)(i), (4), and (5), a recipient under the program.
(ii) With respect to environmental responsibilities under the programs listed in § 58.1(b)(3)(ii) and (6) through (12), a state, unit of general local government, Indian tribe or Alaska Native Village, or the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, when it is the recipient under the program. Under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
) listed in § 58.1(b)(10)(i), the Indian tribe is the responsible entity whether or not a Tribally Designated Housing Entity is authorized to receive grant amounts on behalf of the tribe. The Indian tribe is also the responsible entity under the Section 184 Indian Housing Loan Guarantee program listed in § 58.1(b)(11). Regional Corporations in Alaska are considered Indian tribes in this part. Non-recipient responsible entities are designated as follows:
(A) For qualified housing finance agencies, the State or a unit of general local government, Indian tribe or Alaska native village whose jurisdiction contains the project site;
(B) For public housing agencies, the unit of general local government within which the project is located that exercises land use responsibility, or if HUD determines this infeasible, the county, or if HUD determines this infeasible, the State;
(C) For non-profit organizations and other entities, the unit of general local government, Indian tribe or Alaska native village within which the project is located that exercises land use responsibility, or if HUD determines this infeasible, the county, or if HUD determines this infeasible, the State;
(8)
Unit Density
refers to a change in the number of dwelling units. Where a threshold is identified as a percentage change in density that triggers review requirements, no distinction is made between an increase or a decrease in density.
(9)
Tiering
means the evaluation of an action or an activity at various points in the development process as a proposal or event becomes ripe for an Environment Assessment or Review.
(10)
Vacant Building
means a habitable structure that has been vacant for more than one year.
(b) The following abbreviations are used throughout this part:
(1) CDBG—Community Development Block Grant;
(2) CEQ—Council on Environmental Quality;
(3) EA—Environmental Assessment;
(4) EIS—Environmental Impact Statement;
(5) EPA—Environmental Protection Agency;
(6) ERR—Environmental Review Record;
(7) FONSI—Finding of No Significant Impact;
(8) HUD—Department of Housing and Urban Development;
(9) NAHA—Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act of 1990;
(10) NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended;
(11) NOI/EIS—Notice of Intent to Prepare an EIS;
(12) NOI/RROF—Notice of Intent to Request Release of Funds;
(13) ROD—Record of Decision;
(14) ROF—Release of Funds; and
(15) RROF—Request for Release of Funds.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56128, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 58.4
Assumption authority.
(a)
Assumption authority for responsible entities: General.
Responsible entities shall assume the responsibility for environmental review, decision-making, and action that would otherwise apply to HUD under NEPA and other provisions of law that further the purposes of NEPA, as specified in § 58.5. Responsible entities that receive assistance directly from HUD assume these responsibilities by execution of a grant agreement with HUD and/or a legally binding document such as the certification contained on HUD Form 7015.15, certifying to the assumption of environmental responsibilities. When a State distributes funds to a responsible entity, the State must provide for appropriate procedures by which these responsible entities will evidence their assumption of environmental responsibilities.
(b)
Particular responsibilities of the States.
(1) States are recipients for purposes of directly undertaking a State project and must assume the environmental review responsibilities for the State's activities and those of any non-governmental entity that may participate in the project. In this case, the State must submit the certification and RROF to HUD for approval.
(2) States must exercise HUD's responsibilities in accordance with § 58.18, with respect to approval of a unit of local government's environmental certification and RROF for a HUD assisted project funded through the state. Approval by the state of a unit of local government's certification and RROF satisfies the Secretary's responsibilities under NEPA and the related laws cited in § 58.5.
(c)
Particular responsibilities of Indian tribes.
An Indian tribe may, but is not required to, assume responsibilities for environmental review, decision-making and action for programs authorized by the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101
et seq.
) (other than title VIII) or section 184 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-13a). The tribe must make a separate decision regarding assumption of responsibilities for each of these Acts and communicate that decision in writing to HUD. If the tribe assumes these responsibilities, the requirements of this part shall apply. If a tribe formally declines assumption of these responsibilities, they are retained by HUD and the provisions of part 50 of this title apply.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56128, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 58.5
Related Federal laws and authorities.
In accordance with the provisions of law cited in § 58.1(b), the responsible entity must assume responsibilities for environmental review, decision-making and action that would apply to HUD under the following specified laws and authorities. The responsible entity must certify that it has complied with the requirements that would apply to HUD under these laws and authorities and must consider the criteria, standards, policies and regulations of these laws and authorities.
(a)
Historic properties.
(1) The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 470
et seq.
), particularly sections 106 and 110 (16 U.S.C. 470 and 470h-2).
(2) Executive Order 11593, Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment, May 13, 1971 (36 FR 8921), 3 CFR 1971-1975 Comp., p. 559, particularly section 2(c).
(3) Federal historic preservation regulations as follows:
(i) 36 CFR part 800 with respect to HUD programs other than Urban Development Action Grants (UDAG); and
(ii) 36 CFR part 801 with respect to UDAG.
(4) The Reservoir Salvage Act of 1960 as amended by the Archeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 469
et seq.
), particularly section 3 (16 U.S.C. 469a-1).
(b)
Floodplain management and wetland protection.
(1) Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, as amended by Executive Order 13690, February 4, 2015 (3 CFR, 2016 Comp., p. 268), as implemented in HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 55, particularly section 2(a) of Executive Order 11988, as amended.
(2) Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, May 24, 1977 (42 FR 26961), 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 121, as interpreted in HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 55, particularly sections 2 and 5 of the order.
(c)
Coastal Zone Management.
The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
), as amended, particularly section 307(c) and (d) (16 U.S.C. 1456(c) and (d)).
(d)
Sole source aquifers.
(1) The Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 201, 300(f)
et seq.,
and 21 U.S.C. 349) as amended; particularly section 1424(e)(42 U.S.C. 300h-3(e)).
(2) Sole Source Aquifers (Environmental Protection Agency—40 CFR part 149).
(e)
Endangered species.
The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531
et seq.
) as amended, particularly section 7 (16 U.S.C. 1536).
(f)
Wild and scenic rivers.
The Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 (16 U.S.C. 1271
et seq.
) as amended, particularly section 7(b) and (c) (16 U.S.C. 1278(b) and (c)).
(g)
Air quality.
(1) The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et. seq.
) as amended; particularly section 176(c) and (d) (42 U.S.C. 7506(c) and (d)).
(2) Determining Conformity of Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans (Environmental Protection Agency—40 CFR parts 6, 51, and 93).
(h)
Farmlands protection.
(1) Farmland Protection Policy Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 4201
et seq.
) particularly sections 1540(b) and 1541 (7 U.S.C. 4201(b) and 4202).
(2) Farmland Protection Policy (Department of Agriculture—7 CFR part 658).
(i)
HUD environmental standards.
(1) Applicable criteria and standards specified in part 51 of this title, other than the runway clear zone notification requirement in § 51.303(a)(3).
(2)(i) Also, it is HUD policy that all properties that are being proposed for use in HUD programs be free of hazardous materials, contamination, toxic chemicals and gases, and radioactive substances, where a hazard could affect the health and safety of occupants or conflict with the intended utilization of the property.
(ii) The environmental review of multifamily housing with five or more dwelling units (including leasing), or non-residential property, must include the evaluation of previous uses of the site or other evidence of contamination on or near the site, to ensure that the occupants of proposed sites are not adversely affected by any of the hazards listed in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section.
(iii) Particular attention should be given to any proposed site on or in the general proximity of such areas as dumps, landfills, industrial sites, or other locations that contain, or may have contained, hazardous wastes.
(iv) The responsible entity shall use current techniques by qualified professionals to undertake investigations determined necessary.
(j)
Environmental justice.
Executive Order 12898—Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations and Low-Income Populations, February 11, 1994 (59 FR 7629), 3 CFR, 1994 Comp. p. 859.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56128, Sept. 29, 2003; 78 FR 68734, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 30913, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 58.6
Other requirements.
In addition to the duties under the laws and authorities specified in § 58.5 for assumption by the responsible entity under the laws cited in § 58.1(b), the responsible entity must comply with the following requirements. Applicability of the following requirements does not trigger the certification and
release of funds procedure under this part or preclude exemption of an activity under § 58.34(a)(12) and/or the applicability of § 58.35(b). However, the responsible entity remains responsible for addressing the following requirements in its ERR and meeting these requirements, where applicable, regardless of whether the activity is exempt under § 58.34 or categorically excluded under § 58.35(a) or (b).
(a)(1) Under the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4128), Federal financial assistance for acquisition and construction purposes (including rehabilitation) may not be used in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as having special flood hazards, unless:
(i) The community in which the area is situated is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program (see 44 CFR parts 59 through 79), or less than one year has passed since the FEMA notification regarding such hazards; and
(ii) Where the community is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program, flood insurance protection is to be obtained as a condition of the approval of financial assistance to the property owner.
(2) Where the community is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program and the recipient provides financial assistance for acquisition or construction purposes (including rehabilitation) for property located in an area identified by FEMA as having special flood hazards, the responsible entity is responsible for assuring that flood insurance under the National Flood Insurance Program is obtained and maintained.
(3) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to Federal formula grants made to a State.
(4) Flood insurance requirements cannot be fulfilled by self-insurance except as authorized by law for assistance to state-owned projects within states approved by the Federal Insurance Administrator consistent with 44 CFR 75.11.
(b) Under section 582 of the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994, 42 U.S.C. 5154a, HUD disaster assistance that is made available in a special flood hazard area may not be used to make a payment (including any loan assistance payment) to a person for repair, replacement or restoration for flood damage to any personal, residential or commercial property if:
(1) The person had previously received Federal flood disaster assistance conditioned on obtaining and maintaining flood insurance; and
(2) The person failed to obtain and maintain flood insurance.
(c) Pursuant to the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, as amended by the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3501), HUD assistance may not be used for most activities proposed in the Coastal Barrier Resources System.
(d) In all cases involving HUD assistance, subsidy, or insurance for the purchase or sale of an existing property in a Runway Clear Zone or Clear Zone, as defined in 24 CFR part 51, the responsible entity shall advise the buyer that the property is in a runway clear zone or clear zone, what the implications of such a location are, and that there is a possibility that the property may, at a later date, be acquired by the airport operator. The buyer must sign a statement acknowledging receipt of this information.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15271, Mar. 30, 1998; 78 FR 68734, Nov. 15, 2013]

# Subpart B—General Policy: Responsibilities of Responsible Entities
§ 58.10
Basic environmental responsibility.
In accordance with the provisions of law cited in § 58.1(b), except as otherwise provided in § 58.4(c), the responsible entity must assume the environmental responsibilities for projects under programs cited in § 58.1(b). In doing so, the responsible entity must comply with the provisions of NEPA and the CEQ regulations contained in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508, including the requirements set forth in this part.
[68 FR 56128, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 58.11
Legal capacity and performance.
(a) A responsible entity which believes that it does not have the legal capacity to carry out the environmental responsibilities required by this part must contact the appropriate local HUD Office or the State for further instructions. Determinations of legal capacity will be made on a case-by-case basis.
(b) If a public housing, special project, HOPWA, Supportive Housing, Shelter Plus Care, or Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity recipient that is not a responsible entity objects to the non-recipient responsible entity conducting the environmental review on the basis of performance, timing, or compatibility of objectives, HUD will review the facts to determine who will perform the environmental review.
(c) At any time, HUD may reject the use of a responsible entity to conduct the environmental review in a particular case on the basis of performance, timing or compatibility of objectives, or in accordance with § 58.77(d)(1).
(d) If a responsible entity, other than a recipient, objects to performing an environmental review, or if HUD determines that the responsible entity should not perform the environmental review, HUD may designate another responsible entity to conduct the review in accordance with this part or may itself conduct the environmental review in accordance with the provisions of 24 CFR part 50.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56129, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 58.12
Technical and administrative capacity.
The responsible entity must develop the technical and administrative capability necessary to comply with 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508 and the requirements of this part.
§ 58.13
Responsibilities of the certifying officer.
Under the terms of the certification required by § 58.71, a responsible entity's certifying officer is the “responsible Federal official” as that term is used in section 102 of NEPA and in statutory provisions cited in § 58.1(b). The Certifying Officer is therefore responsible for all the requirements of section 102 of NEPA and the related provisions in 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508, and 24 CFR part 58, including the related Federal authorities listed in § 58.5. The Certifying Officer must also:
(a) Represent the responsible entity and be subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. The Certifying Officer will not be represented by the Department of Justice in court; and
(b) Ensure that the responsible entity reviews and comments on all EISs prepared for Federal projects that may have an impact on the recipient's program.
§ 58.14
Interaction with State, Federal and non-Federal entities.
A responsible entity shall consult with appropriate environmental agencies, State, Federal and non-Federal entities and the public in the preparation of an EIS, EA or other environmental reviews undertaken under the related laws and authorities cited in § 58.5 and § 58.6. The responsible entity must also cooperate with other agencies to reduce duplication between NEPA and comparable environmental review requirements of the State (see 40 CFR 1506.2 (b) and (c)). The responsible entity must prepare its EAs and EISs so that they comply with the environmental review requirements of both Federal and State laws unless otherwise specified or provided by law. State, Federal and local agencies may participate or act in a joint lead or cooperating agency capacity in the preparation of joint EISs or joint environmental assessments (see 40 CFR 1501.5(b) and 1501.6). A single EIS or EA may be prepared and adopted by multiple users to the extent that the review addresses the relevant environmental issues and there is a written agreement between the cooperating agencies which sets forth the coordinated and overall responsibilities.
[63 FR 15271, Mar. 30, 1998]
§ 58.15
Tiering.
Responsible entities may tier their environmental reviews and assessments to eliminate repetitive discussions of the same issues at subsequent levels of review. Tiering is appropriate
when there is a requirement to evaluate a policy or proposal in the early stages of development or when site-specific analysis or mitigation is not currently feasible and a more narrow or focused analysis is better done at a later date. The site specific review need only reference or summarize the issues addressed in the broader review. The broader review should identify and evaluate those issues ripe for decision and exclude those issues not relevant to the policy, program or project under consideration. The broader review should also establish the policy, standard or process to be followed in the site specific review. The Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) with respect to the broader assessment shall include a summary of the assessment and identify the significant issues to be considered in site specific reviews. Subsequent site-specific reviews will not require notices or a Request for Release of Funds unless the Certifying Officer determines that there are unanticipated impacts or impacts not adequately addressed in the prior review. A tiering approach can be used for meeting environmental review requirements in areas designated for special focus in local Consolidated Plans. Local and State Governments are encouraged to use the Consolidated Plan process to facilitate environmental reviews.
§ 58.17
[Reserved]
§ 58.18
Responsibilities of States assuming HUD environmental responsibilities.
States that elect to administer a HUD program shall ensure that the program complies with the provisions of this part. The state must:
(a) Designate the state agency or agencies that will be responsible for carrying out the requirements and administrative responsibilities set forth in subpart H of this part and which will:
(1) Develop a monitoring and enforcement program for post-review actions on environmental reviews and monitor compliance with any environmental conditions included in the award.
(2) Receive public notices, RROFs, and certifications from recipients pursuant to §§ 58.70 and 58.71; accept objections from the public and from other agencies (§ 58.73); and perform other related responsibilities regarding releases of funds.
(b) Fulfill the state role in subpart H relative to the time period set for the receipt and disposition of comments, objections and appeals (if any) on particular projects.
[68 FR 56129, Sept. 29, 2003]

# Subpart C—General Policy: Environmental Review Procedures
§ 58.21
Time periods.
All time periods in this part shall be counted in calendar days. The first day of a time period begins at 12:01 a.m. local time on the day following the publication or the mailing and posting date of the notice which initiates the time period.
§ 58.22
Limitations on activities pending clearance.
(a) Neither a recipient nor any participant in the development process, including public or private nonprofit or for-profit entities, or any of their contractors, may commit HUD assistance under a program listed in § 58.1(b) on an activity or project until HUD or the state has approved the recipient's RROF and the related certification from the responsible entity. In addition, until the RROF and the related certification have been approved, neither a recipient nor any participant in the development process may commit non-HUD funds on or undertake an activity or project under a program listed in § 58.1(b) if the activity or project would have an adverse environmental impact or limit the choice of reasonable alternatives.
(b) If a project or activity is exempt under § 58.34, or is categorically excluded (except in extraordinary circumstances) under § 58.35(b), no RROF is required and the recipient may undertake the activity immediately after the responsible entity has documented its determination as required in § 58.34(b) and § 58.35(d), but the recipient must comply with applicable requirements under § 58.6.
(c) If a recipient is considering an application from a prospective subrecipient or beneficiary and is aware that the prospective subrecipient or beneficiary is about to take an action within the jurisdiction of the recipient that is prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section, then the recipient will take appropriate action to ensure that the objectives and procedures of NEPA are achieved.
(d) An option agreement on a proposed site or property is allowable prior to the completion of the environmental review if the option agreement is subject to a determination by the recipient on the desirability of the property for the project as a result of the completion of the environmental review in accordance with this part and the cost of the option is a nominal portion of the purchase price. There is no constraint on the purchase of an option by third parties that have not been selected for HUD funding, have no responsibility for the environmental review and have no say in the approval or disapproval of the project.
(e)
Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Program (SHOP).
In accordance with section 11(d)(2)(A) of the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 12805 note), an organization, consortium, or affiliate receiving assistance under the SHOP program may advance nongrant funds to acquire land prior to completion of an environmental review and approval of a Request for Release of Funds (RROF) and certification, notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section. Any advances to acquire land prior to approval of the RROF and certification are made at the risk of the organization, consortium, or affiliate and reimbursement for such advances may depend on the result of the environmental review. This authorization is limited to the SHOP program only and all other forms of HUD assistance are subject to the limitations in paragraph (a) of this section.
(f)
Relocation.
Funds may be committed for relocation assistance before the approval of the RROF and related certification for the project provided that the relocation assistance is required by 24 CFR part 42.
[68 FR 56129, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 58.23
Financial assistance for environmental review.
The costs of environmental reviews, including costs incurred in complying with any of the related laws and authorities cited in § 58.5 and § 58.6, are eligible costs to the extent allowable under the HUD assistance program regulations.

# Subpart D—Environmental Review Process: Documentation, Range of Activities, Project Aggregation and Classification
§ 58.30
Environmental review process.
(a) The environmental review process consists of all the actions that a responsible entity must take to determine compliance with this part. The environmental review process includes all the compliance actions needed for other activities and projects that are not assisted by HUD but are aggregated by the responsible entity in accordance with § 58.32.
(b) The environmental review process should begin as soon as a recipient determines the projected use of HUD assistance.
§ 58.32
Project aggregation.
(a) A responsible entity must group together and evaluate as a single project all individual activities which are related either on a geographical or functional basis, or are logical parts of a composite of contemplated actions.
(b) In deciding the most appropriate basis for aggregation when evaluating activities under more than one program, the responsible entity may choose:
functional aggregation
when a specific type of activity (e.g., water improvements) is to take place in several separate locales or jurisdictions;
geographic aggregation
when a mix of dissimilar but related activities is to be concentrated in a fairly specific project area (e.g., a combination of water, sewer and street improvements and economic development activities); or
a combination of aggregation approaches,
which, for various project locations, considers the impacts arising from each functional activity and its interrelationship with other activities.
(c) The purpose of project aggregation is to group together related activities so that the responsible entity can:
(1) Address adequately and analyze, in a single environmental review, the separate and combined impacts of activities that are similar, connected and closely related, or that are dependent upon other activities and actions. (See 40 CFR 1508.25(a)).
(2) Consider reasonable alternative courses of action.
(3) Schedule the activities to resolve conflicts or mitigate the individual, combined and/or cumulative effects.
(4) Prescribe mitigation measures and safeguards including project alternatives and modifications to individual activities.
(d)
Multi-year project aggregation
—(1)
Release of funds.
When a recipient's planning and program development provide for activities to be implemented over two or more years, the responsible entity's environmental review should consider the relationship among all component activities of the multi-year project regardless of the source of funds and address and evaluate their cumulative environmental effects. The estimated range of the aggregated activities and the estimated cost of the total project must be listed and described by the responsible entity in the environmental review and included in the RROF. The release of funds will cover the entire project period.
(2) When one or more of the conditions described in § 58.47 exists, the recipient or other responsible entity must re-evaluate the environmental review.
§ 58.33
Emergencies.
(a) In the cases of emergency, disaster or imminent threat to health and safety which warrant the taking of an action with significant environmental impact, the provisions of 40 CFR 1506.11 shall apply.
(b) If funds are needed on an emergency basis and adherence to separate comment periods would prevent the giving of assistance during a Presidentially declared disaster, or during a local emergency that has been declared by the chief elected official of the responsible entity who has proclaimed that there is an immediate need for public action to protect the public safety, the combined Notice of FONSI and Notice of Intent to Request Release of Funds (NOI/RROF) may be disseminated and/or published simultaneously with the submission of the RROF. The combined Notice of FONSI and NOI/RROF shall state that the funds are needed on an emergency basis due to a declared disaster and that the comment periods have been combined. The Notice shall also invite commenters to submit their comments to both HUD and the responsible entity issuing the notice to ensure that these comments will receive full consideration.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56129, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 58.34
Exempt activities.
(a) Except for the applicable requirements of § 58.6, the responsible entity does not have to comply with the requirements of this part or undertake any environmental review, consultation or other action under NEPA and the other provisions of law or authorities cited in § 58.5 for the activities exempt by this section or projects consisting solely of the following exempt activities:
(1) Environmental and other studies, resource identification and the development of plans and strategies;
(2) Information and financial services;
(3) Administrative and management activities;
(4) Public services that will not have a physical impact or result in any physical changes, including but not limited to services concerned with employment, crime prevention, child care, health, drug abuse, education, counseling, energy conservation and welfare or recreational needs;
(5) Inspections and testing of properties for hazards or defects;
(6) Purchase of insurance;
(7) Purchase of tools;
(8) Engineering or design costs;
(9) Technical assistance and training;
(10) Assistance for temporary or permanent improvements that do not alter environmental conditions and are limited to protection, repair, or restoration activities necessary only to
control or arrest the effects from disasters or imminent threats to public safety including those resulting from physical deterioration;
(11) Payment of principal and interest on loans made or obligations guaranteed by HUD;
(12) Any of the categorical exclusions listed in § 58.35(a) provided that there are no circumstances which require compliance with any other Federal laws and authorities cited in § 58.5.
(b) A recipient does not have to submit an RROF and certification, and no further approval from HUD or the State will be needed by the recipient for the drawdown of funds to carry out exempt activities and projects. However, the responsible entity must document in writing its determination that each activity or project is exempt and meets the conditions specified for such exemption under this section.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15271, Mar. 30, 1998]
§ 58.35
Categorical exclusions.
Categorical exclusion refers to a category of activities for which no environmental impact statement or environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact under NEPA is required, except in extraordinary circumstances (see § 58.2(a)(3)) in which a normally excluded activity may have a significant impact. Compliance with the other applicable Federal environmental laws and authorities listed in § 58.5 is required for any categorical exclusion listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(a)
Categorical exclusions subject to § 58.5.
The following activities are categorically excluded under NEPA, but may be subject to review under authorities listed in § 58.5:
(1) Acquisition, repair, improvement, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of public facilities and improvements (other than buildings) when the facilities and improvements are in place and will be retained in the same use without change in size or capacity of more than 20 percent (e.g., replacement of water or sewer lines, reconstruction of curbs and sidewalks, repaving of streets).
(2) Special projects directed to the removal of material and architectural barriers that restrict the mobility of and accessibility to elderly and handicapped persons.
(3) Rehabilitation of buildings and improvements when the following conditions are met:
(i) In the case of a building for residential use (with one to four units), the density is not increased beyond four units, and the land use is not changed;
(ii) In the case of multifamily residential buildings:
(A) Unit density is not changed more than 20 percent;
(B) The project does not involve changes in land use from residential to non-residential; and
(C) The estimated cost of rehabilitation is less than 75 percent of the total estimated cost of replacement after rehabilitation.
(iii) In the case of non-residential structures, including commercial, industrial, and public buildings:
(A) The facilities and improvements are in place and will not be changed in size or capacity by more than 20 percent; and
(B) The activity does not involve a change in land use, such as from non-residential to residential, commercial to industrial, or from one industrial use to another.
(4)(i) An individual action on up to four dwelling units where there is a maximum of four units on any one site. The units can be four one-unit buildings or one four-unit building or any combination in between; or
(ii) An individual action on a project of five or more housing units developed on scattered sites when the sites are more than 2,000 feet apart and there are not more than four housing units on any one site.
(iii) Paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section do not apply to rehabilitation of a building for residential use (with one to four units) (see paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section).
(5) Acquisition (including leasing) or disposition of, or equity loans on an existing structure, or acquisition (including leasing) of vacant land provided that the structure or land acquired, financed, or disposed of will be retained for the same use.
(6) Combinations of the above activities.
(b)
Categorical exclusions not subject to § 58.5.
The Department has determined that the following categorically excluded activities would not alter any conditions that would require a review or compliance determination under the Federal laws and authorities cited in § 58.5. When the following kinds of activities are undertaken, the responsible entity does not have to publish a NOI/RROF or execute a certification and the recipient does not have to submit a RROF to HUD (or the State) except in the circumstances described in paragraph (c) of this section. Following the award of the assistance, no further approval from HUD or the State will be needed with respect to environmental requirements, except where paragraph (c) of this section applies. The recipient remains responsible for carrying out any applicable requirements under § 58.6.
(1) Tenant-based rental assistance;
(2) Supportive services including, but not limited to, health care, housing services, permanent housing placement, day care, nutritional services, short-term payments for rent/mortgage/utility costs, and assistance in gaining access to local, State, and Federal government benefits and services;
(3) Operating costs including maintenance, security, operation, utilities, furnishings, equipment, supplies, staff training and recruitment and other incidental costs;
(4) Economic development activities, including but not limited to, equipment purchase, inventory financing, interest subsidy, operating expenses and similar costs not associated with construction or expansion of existing operations;
(5) Activities to assist homebuyers to purchase existing dwelling units or dwelling units under construction, including closing costs and down payment assistance, interest buydowns, and similar activities that result in the transfer of title.
(6) Affordable housing pre-development costs including legal, consulting, developer and other costs related to obtaining site options, project financing, administrative costs and fees for loan commitments, zoning approvals, and other related activities which do not have a physical impact.
(7) Approval of supplemental assistance (including insurance or guarantee) to a project previously approved under this part, if the approval is made by the same responsible entity that conducted the environmental review on the original project and re-evaluation of the environmental findings is not required under § 58.47.
(8) HUD's guarantee of loans for one- to-four family dwellings on trust land and on fee land within an Indian reservation and on fee land owned by the Indian Tribe outside the Tribe's Indian Reservation boundaries, under the Direct Guarantee procedure for the Section 184 Indian Housing loan guarantee program without any review or approval of the application for the loan guarantee by HUD or the responsible entity or approval of the loan guarantee by HUD before the execution of the contract for construction or rehabilitation and the loan closing.
(c)
Circumstances requiring NEPA review.
If a responsible entity determines that an activity or project identified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, because of extraordinary circumstances and conditions at or affecting the location of the activity or project, may have a significant environmental effect, it shall comply with all the requirements of this part.
(d) The Environmental Review Record (ERR) must contain a well organized written record of the process and determinations made under this section.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15272, Mar. 30, 1998; 68 FR 56129, Sept. 29, 2003; 78 FR 68734, Nov. 15, 2013; 89 FR 20056, Mar. 20, 2024]
§ 58.36
Environmental assessments.
If a project is not exempt or categorically excluded under §§ 58.34 and 58.35, the responsible entity must prepare an EA in accordance with subpart E of this part. If it is evident without preparing an EA that an EIS is required under § 58.37, the responsible entity should proceed directly to an EIS.
§ 58.37
Environmental impact statement determinations.
(a) An EIS is required when the project is determined to have a potentially significant impact on the human environment.
(b) An EIS is required under any of the following circumstances, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) The project would provide a site or sites for, or result in the construction of, hospitals or nursing homes containing a total of 2,500 or more beds.
(2) The project would remove, demolish, convert or substantially rehabilitate 2,500 or more existing housing units (but not including rehabilitation projects categorically excluded under § 58.35), or would result in the construction or installation of 2,500 or more housing units, or would provide sites for 2,500 or more housing units.
(3) The project would provide enough additional water and sewer capacity to support 2,500 or more additional housing units. The project does not have to be specifically intended for residential use nor does it have to be totally new construction. If the project is designed to provide upgraded service to existing development as well as to serve new development, only that portion of the increased capacity which is intended to serve new development should be counted.
(c) If, on the basis of an EA, a responsible entity determines that the thresholds in paragraph (b) of this section are the sole reason for the EIS, the responsible entity may prepare a FONSI pursuant to 40 CFR 1501.4. In such cases, the FONSI must be made available for public review for at least 30 days before the responsible entity makes the final determination whether to prepare an EIS.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, an EIS is not required where § 58.53 is applicable.
(e)
Recommended EIS Format.
The responsible entity must use the EIS format recommended by the CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1502.10) unless a determination is made on a particular project that there is a compelling reason to do otherwise. In such a case, the EIS format must meet the minimum requirements prescribed in 40 CFR 1502.10.
§ 58.38
Environmental review record.
The responsible entity must maintain a written record of the environmental review undertaken under this part for each project. This document will be designated the “Environmental Review Record” (ERR) and shall be available for public review. The Departmental Environmental Clearance Officer (DECO) shall establish a prescribed format that the responsible entity shall use to prepare the ERR. The DECO may prescribe alternative formats as necessary to meet specific program needs.
(a)
ERR Documents.
The ERR shall contain all the environmental review documents, public notices and written determinations or environmental findings required by this part as evidence of review, decisionmaking and actions pertaining to a particular project of a recipient. The document shall:
(1) Describe the project and the activities that the recipient has determined to be part of the project;
(2) Evaluate the effects of the project or the activities on the human environment;
(3) Document compliance with applicable statutes and authorities, in particular those cited in § 58.5 and 58.6; and
(4) Record the written determinations and other review findings required by this part (e.g., exempt and categorically excluded projects determinations, findings of no significant impact).
(b)
Other documents and information.
The ERR shall also contain verifiable source documents and relevant base data used or cited in EAs, EISs or other project review documents. These documents may be incorporated by reference into the ERR provided that each source document is identified and available for inspection by interested parties. Proprietary material and special studies prepared for the recipient that are not otherwise generally available for public review shall not be incorporated by reference but shall be included in the ERR.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 49229, Aug. 20, 2014]

# Subpart E—Environmental Review Process: Environmental Assessments (EA's)
§ 58.40
Preparing the environmental assessment.
The DECO shall establish a prescribed format that the responsible entity shall use to prepare the EA. The DECO may prescribe alternative formats as necessary to meet specific program needs. In preparing an EA for a particular proposed project or other action, the responsible entity must:
(a) Determine existing conditions and describe the character, features and resources of the project area and its surroundings; identify the trends that are likely to continue in the absence of the project.
(b) Identify all potential environmental impacts, whether beneficial or adverse, and the conditions that would change as a result of the project.
(c) Identify, analyze and evaluate all impacts to determine the significance of their effects on the human environment and whether the project will require further compliance under related laws and authorities cited in § 58.5 and § 58.6.
(d) Examine and recommend feasible ways in which the project or external factors relating to the project could be modified in order to eliminate or minimize adverse environmental impacts.
(e) Discuss the need for the proposal, appropriate alternatives where the proposal involves unresolved conflicts concerning alternative uses of available resources, the environmental impacts of the proposed action and alternatives, and a listing of agencies and persons consulted.
(f) Complete all environmental review requirements necessary for the project's compliance with applicable authorities cited in §§ 58.5 and 58.6.
(g) Based on steps set forth in paragraph (a) through (f) of this section, make one of the following findings:
(1) A Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI), in which the responsible entity determines that the project is not an action that will result in a significant impact on the quality of the human environment. The responsible entity may then proceed to § 58.43.
(2) A finding of significant impact, in which the project is deemed to be an action which may significantly affect the quality of the human environment. The responsible entity must then proceed with its environmental review under subpart F or G of this part.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 49229, Aug. 20, 2014]
§ 58.43
Dissemination and/or publication of the findings of no significant impact.
(a) If the responsible entity makes a finding of no significant impact, it must prepare a FONSI notice, using the current HUD-recommended format or an equivalent format. As a minimum, the responsible entity must send the FONSI notice to individuals and groups known to be interested in the activities, to the local news media, to the appropriate Tribal, Federal, State, and local agencies to the Regional Offices of the Environmental Protection Agency having jurisdiction and to the HUD Field Office (or the State where applicable). The responsible entity may also publish the FONSI notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected community or on an appropriate Government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency. If the notice is not published, it must also be prominently displayed in public buildings, such as the local Post Office and within the project area or in accordance with procedures established as part of the citizen participation process.
(b) The responsible entity may disseminate or publish a FONSI notice at the same time it disseminates or publishes the NOI/RROF required by § 58.70. If the notices are released as a combined notice, the combined notice shall:
(1) Clearly indicate that it is intended to meet two separate procedural requirements; and
(2) Advise the public to specify in their comments which “notice” their comments address.
(c) The responsible entity must consider the comments and make modifications, if appropriate, in response to
the comments, before it completes its environmental certification and before the recipient submits its RROF. If funds will be used in Presidentially declared disaster areas, modifications resulting from public comment, if appropriate, must be made before proceeding with the expenditure of funds.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 30913, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 58.45
Public comment periods.
Required notices must afford the public the following minimum comment periods, counted in accordance with § 58.21:
(a) Notice of Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI)
15 days when published in a general circulation newspaper or on a Government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency or, if no publication, 18 days when mailing and posting.
(b) Notice of Intent to Request Release of Funds (NOI-RROF)
7 days when published in a general circulation newspaper or on a Government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency or, if no publication, 10 days when mailing and posting.
(c) Concurrent or combined notices
15 days when published in a general circulation newspaper or on a Government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency or, if no publication, 18 days when mailing and posting.
[68 FR 56130, Sept. 29, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 30913, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 58.46
Time delays for exceptional circumstances.
The responsible entity must make the FONSI available for public comments for 30 days before the recipient files the RROF when:
(a) There is a considerable interest or controversy concerning the project;
(b) The proposed project is similar to other projects that normally require the preparation of an EIS; or
(c) The project is unique and without precedent.
§ 58.47
Re-evaluation of environmental assessments and other environmental findings.
(a) A responsible entity must re-evaluate its environmental findings to determine if the original findings are still valid, when:
(1) The recipient proposes substantial changes in the nature, magnitude or extent of the project, including adding new activities not anticipated in the original scope of the project;
(2) There are new circumstances and environmental conditions which may affect the project or have a bearing on its impact, such as concealed or unexpected conditions discovered during the implementation of the project or activity which is proposed to be continued; or
(3) The recipient proposes the selection of an alternative not in the original finding.
(b)(1) If the original findings are still valid but the data or conditions upon which they were based have changed,
the responsible entity must affirm the original findings and update its ERR by including this re-evaluation and its determination based on its findings. Under these circumstances, if a FONSI notice has already been published, no further publication of a FONSI notice is required.
(2) If the responsible entity determines that the original findings are no longer valid, it must prepare an EA or an EIS if its evaluation indicates potentially significant impacts.
(3) Where the recipient is not the responsible entity, the recipient must inform the responsible entity promptly of any proposed substantial changes under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, new circumstances or environmental conditions under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or any proposals to select a different alternative under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and must then permit the responsible entity to re-evaluate the findings before proceeding.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15272, Mar. 30, 1998]

# Subpart F—Environmental Review Process: Environmental Impact Statement Determinations
§ 58.52
Adoption of other agencies' EISs.
The responsible entity may adopt a draft or final EIS prepared by another agency provided that the EIS was prepared in accordance with 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508. If the responsible entity adopts an EIS prepared by another agency, the procedure in 40 CFR 1506.3 shall be followed. An adopted EIS may have to be revised and modified to adapt it to the particular environmental conditions and circumstances of the project if these are different from the project reviewed in the EIS. In such cases the responsible entity must prepare, circulate, and file a supplemental draft EIS in the manner prescribed in § 58.60(d) and otherwise comply with the clearance and time requirements of the EIS process, except that scoping requirements under 40 CFR 1501.7 shall not apply. The agency that prepared the original EIS should be informed that the responsible entity intends to amend and adopt the EIS. The responsible entity may adopt an EIS when it acts as a cooperating agency in its preparation under 40 CFR 1506.3. The responsible entity is not required to re-circulate or file the EIS, but must complete the clearance process for the RROF. The decision to adopt an EIS shall be made a part of the project ERR.
§ 58.53
Use of prior environmental impact statements.
Where any final EIS has been listed in the
Federal Register
for a project pursuant to this part, or where an areawide or similar broad scale final EIS has been issued and the EIS anticipated a subsequent project requiring an environmental clearance, then no new EIS is required for the subsequent project if all the following conditions are met:
(a) The ERR contains a decision based on a finding pursuant to § 58.40 that the proposed project is not a new major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. The decision shall include:
(1) References to the prior EIS and its evaluation of the environmental factors affecting the proposed subsequent action subject to NEPA;
(2) An evaluation of any environmental factors which may not have been previously assessed, or which may have significantly changed;
(3) An analysis showing that the proposed project is consistent with the location, use, and density assumptions for the site and with the timing and capacity of the circulation, utility, and other supporting infrastructure assumptions in the prior EIS;
(4) Documentation showing that where the previous EIS called for mitigating measures or other corrective action, these are completed to the extent reasonable given the current state of development.
(b) The prior final EIS has been filed within five (5) years, and updated as follows:
(1) The EIS has been updated to reflect any significant revisions made to the assumptions under which the original EIS was prepared;
(2) The EIS has been updated to reflect new environmental issues and data or legislation and implementing regulations which may have significant environmental impact on the project area covered by the prior EIS.
(c) There is no litigation pending in connection with the prior EIS, and no final judicial finding of inadequacy of the prior EIS has been made.

# Subpart G—Environmental Review Process: Procedures for Draft, Final and Supplemental Environmental Impact Statements
§ 58.55
Notice of intent to prepare an EIS.
As soon as practicable after the responsible entity decides to prepare an EIS, it must publish a NOI/EIS, using the HUD recommended format and disseminate it in the same manner as required by 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508.
§ 58.56
Scoping process.
The determination on whether or not to hold a scoping meeting will depend on the same circumstances and factors as for the holding of public hearings under § 58.59. The responsible entity must wait at least 15 days after disseminating or publishing the NOI/EIS before holding a scoping meeting.
§ 58.57
Lead agency designation.
If there are several agencies ready to assume the lead role, the responsible entity must make its decision based on the criteria in 40 CFR 1501.5(c). If the responsible entity and a Federal agency are unable to reach agreement, then the responsible entity must notify HUD (or the State, where applicable). HUD (or the State) will assist in obtaining a determination based on the procedure set forth in 40 CFR 1501.5(e).
§ 58.59
Public hearings and meetings.
(a)
Factors to consider.
In determining whether or not to hold public hearings in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.6, the responsible entity must consider the following factors:
(1) The magnitude of the project in terms of economic costs, the geographic area involved, and the uniqueness or size of commitment of resources involved.
(2) The degree of interest in or controversy concerning the project.
(3) The complexity of the issues and the likelihood that information will be presented at the hearing which will be of assistance to the responsible entity.
(4) The extent to which public involvement has been achieved through other means.
(b)
Procedure.
All public hearings must be preceded by a notice of public hearing, which must be published in the local news media or on an appropriate government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency 15 days before the hearing date. The Notice must:
(1) State the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing or meeting.
(2) Describe the project, its estimated costs, and the project area.
(3) State that persons desiring to be heard on environmental issues will be afforded the opportunity to be heard.
(4) State the responsible entity's name and address and the name and address of its Certifying Officer.
(5) State what documents are available, where they can be obtained, and any charges that may apply.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 30913, Apr. 23, 2024]
§ 58.60
Preparation and filing of environmental impact statements.
(a) The responsible entity must prepare the draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) and the final environmental impact statements (FEIS) using the current HUD recommended format or its equivalent.
(b) The responsible entity must file and distribute the (DEIS) and the (FEIS) in the following manner:
(1) Five copies to EPA Headquarters;
(2) Five copies to EPA Regional Office;
(3) Copies made available in the responsible entity's and the recipient's office;
(4) Copies or summaries made available to persons who request them; and
(5) FEIS only—one copy to State, HUD Field Office, and HUD Headquarters library.
(c) The responsible entity may request waivers from the time requirements specified for the draft and final EIS as prescribed in 40 CFR 1506.6.
(d) When substantial changes are proposed in a project or when significant new circumstances or information becomes available during an environmental review, the recipient may prepare a supplemental EIS as prescribed in 40 CFR 1502.9.
(e) The responsible entity must prepare a Record of Decision (ROD) as prescribed in 40 CFR 1505.2.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15272, Mar. 30, 1998]

# Subpart H—Release of Funds for Particular Projects
§ 58.70
Notice of intent to request release of funds.
The NOI/RROF must be disseminated and/or published in the manner prescribed by § 58.43 and § 58.45 before the certification is signed by the responsible entity.
§ 58.71
Request for release of funds and certification.
(a) The RROF and certification shall be sent to the appropriate HUD Field Office (or the State, if applicable), except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. This request shall be executed by the Certifying Officer. The request shall describe the specific project and activities covered by the request and contain the certification required under the applicable statute cited in § 58.1(b). The RROF and certification must be in a form specified by HUD.
(b) When the responsible entity is conducting an environmental review on behalf of a recipient, as provided for in § 58.10, the recipient must provide the responsible entity with all available project and environmental information and refrain from undertaking any physical activities or choice limiting actions until HUD (or the State, if applicable) has approved its request for release of funds. The certification form executed by the responsible entity's certifying officer shall be sent to the recipient that is to receive the assistance along with a description of any special environmental conditions that must be adhered to in carrying out the project. The recipient is to submit the RROF and the certification of the responsible entity to HUD (or the State, if applicable) requesting the release of funds. The recipient must agree to abide by the special conditions, procedures and requirements of the environmental review, and to advise the responsible entity of any proposed change in the scope of the project or any change in environmental conditions.
(c) If the responsible entity determines that some of the activities are exempt under applicable provisions of this part, the responsible entity shall advise the recipient that it may commit funds for these activities as soon as programmatic authorization is received. This finding shall be documented in the ERR maintained by the responsible entity and in the recipient's project files.
§ 58.72
HUD or State actions on RROFs and certifications.
The actions which HUD (or a State) may take with respect to a recipient's environmental certification and RROF are as follows:
(a) In the absence of any receipt of objection to the contrary, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, HUD (or the State) will assume the validity of the certification and RROF and will approve these documents after expiration of the 15-day period prescribed by statute.
(b) HUD (or the state) may disapprove a certification and RROF if it has knowledge that the responsible entity or other participants in the development process have not complied with the items in § 58.75, or that the RROF and certification are inaccurate.
(c) In cases in which HUD has approved a certification and RROF but subsequently learns (e.g., through monitoring) that the recipient violated § 58.22 or the recipient or responsible entity otherwise failed to comply with a clearly applicable environmental authority, HUD shall impose appropriate remedies and sanctions in accord with the law and regulations for the program under which the violation was found.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56130, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 58.73
Objections to release of funds.
HUD (or the State) will not approve the ROF for any project before 15 calendar days have elapsed from the time of receipt of the RROF and the certification or from the time specified in the notice published pursuant to § 58.70, whichever is later. Any person or agency may object to a recipient's RROF and the related certification. However, the objections must meet the conditions and procedures set forth in subpart H of this part. HUD (or the State) can refuse the RROF and certification on any grounds set forth in § 58.75. All decisions by HUD (or the State) regarding the RROF and the certification shall be final.
§ 58.74
Time for objecting.
All objections must be received by HUD (or the State) within 15 days from the time HUD (or the State) receives the recipient's RROF and the related certification, or within the time period specified in the notice, whichever is later.
§ 58.75
Permissible bases for objections.
HUD (or the State), will consider objections claiming a responsible entity's noncompliance with this part based only on any of the following grounds:
(a) The certification was not in fact executed by the responsible entity's Certifying Officer.
(b) The responsible entity has failed to make one of the two findings pursuant to § 58.40 or to make the written determination required by §§ 58.35, 58.47 or 58.53 for the project, as applicable.
(c) The responsible entity has omitted one or more of the steps set forth at subpart E of this part for the preparation, publication and completion of an EA.
(d) The responsible entity has omitted one or more of the steps set forth at subparts F and G of this part for the conduct, preparation, publication and completion of an EIS.
(e) The recipient or other participants in the development process have committed funds, incurred costs or undertaken activities not authorized by this part before release of funds and approval of the environmental certification by HUD (or the state).
(f) Another Federal agency acting pursuant to 40 CFR part 1504 has submitted a written finding that the project is unsatisfactory from the standpoint of environmental quality.
[61 FR 19122, Apr. 30, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 56130, Sept. 29, 2003]
§ 58.76
Procedure for objections.
A person or agency objecting to a responsible entity's RROF and certification shall submit objections in writing to HUD (or the State). The objections shall:
(a) Include the name, address and telephone number of the person or agency submitting the objection, and be signed by the person or authorized official of an agency.
(b) Be dated when signed.
(c) Describe the basis for objection and the facts or legal authority supporting the objection.
(d) State when a copy of the objection was mailed or delivered to the responsible entity's Certifying Officer.
§ 58.77
Effect of approval of certification.
(a)
Responsibilities of HUD and States.
HUD's (or, where applicable, the State's) approval of the certification shall be deemed to satisfy the responsibilities of the Secretary under NEPA and related provisions of law cited at § 58.5 insofar as those responsibilities relate to the release of funds as authorized by the applicable provisions of law cited in § 58.1(b).
(b)
Public and agency redress.
Persons and agencies seeking redress in relation to environmental reviews covered by an approved certification shall deal with the responsible entity and not with HUD. It is HUD's policy to refer all inquiries and complaints to the responsible entity and its Certifying Officer. Similarly, the State (where applicable) may direct persons and agencies seeking redress in relation to environmental reviews covered by an approved certification to deal with the responsible entity, and not the State, and may refer inquiries and complaints to the responsible entity and its Certifying Officer. Remedies for noncompliance are set forth in program regulations.
(c)
Implementation of environmental review decisions.
Projects of a recipient will require post-review monitoring and other inspection and enforcement actions by the recipient and the State or HUD (using procedures provided for in program regulations) to assure that decisions adopted through the environmental review process are carried out during project development and implementation.
(d)
Responsibility for monitoring and training.
(1) At least once every three years, HUD intends to conduct in-depth monitoring and exercise quality control (through training and consultation) over the environmental activities performed by responsible entities under this part. Limited monitoring of these environmental activities will be conducted during each program monitoring site visit. If through limited or in-depth monitoring of these environmental activities or by other means, HUD becomes aware of any environmental deficiencies, HUD may take one or more of the following actions:
(i) In the case of problems found during limited monitoring, HUD may schedule in-depth monitoring at an earlier date or may schedule in-depth monitoring more frequently;
(ii) HUD may require attendance by staff of the responsible entity at HUD-sponsored or approved training, which will be provided periodically at various locations around the country;
(iii) HUD may refuse to accept the certifications of environmental compliance on subsequent grants;
(iv) HUD may suspend or terminate the responsible entity's assumption of the environmental review responsibility;
(v) HUD may initiate sanctions, corrective actions, or other remedies specified in program regulations or agreements or contracts with the recipient.
(2) HUD's responsibilities and action under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not be construed to limit or reduce any responsibility assumed by a responsible entity with respect to any particular release of funds under this part. Whether or not HUD takes action under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Certifying Officer remains the responsible Federal official under § 58.13 with respect to projects and activities for which the Certifying Officer has submitted a certification under this part.
Pt. 60

# PART 60—PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS
Sec.
60.101
To what does this policy apply?
60.102
Definitions for purposes of this policy.
60.103
Assuring compliance with this policy—research conducted or supported by any Federal department or agency.
60.104
Exempt research.
60.105-60.106
[Reserved]
60.107
IRB membership.
60.108
IRB functions and operations.
60.109
IRB review of research.
60.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
60.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
60.112
Review by institution.
60.113
Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.
60.114
Cooperative research.
60.115
IRB records.
60.116
General requirements for informed consent.
60.117
Documentation of informed consent.
60.118
Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for involvement of human subjects.
60.119
Research undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects.
60.120
Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for research to be conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency.
60.121
[Reserved]
60.122
Use of Federal funds.
60.123
Early termination of research support: Evaluation of applications and proposals.
60.124
Conditions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 42 U.S.C. 300v-1(b) and 3535(d).

# Source:
82 FR 7271, Jan. 19, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.101
To what does this policy apply?
(a) Except as detailed in § 60.104, this policy applies to all research involving human subjects conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by any Federal department or agency that takes appropriate administrative action to make the policy applicable to such research. This includes research
conducted by Federal civilian employees or military personnel, except that each department or agency head may adopt such procedural modifications as may be appropriate from an administrative standpoint. It also includes research conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by the Federal Government outside the United States. Institutions that are engaged in research described in this paragraph and institutional review boards (IRBs) reviewing research that is subject to this policy must comply with this policy.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Department or agency heads retain final judgment as to whether a particular activity is covered by this policy and this judgment shall be exercised consistent with the ethical principles of the Belmont Report.
62
62
The National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research.- Belmont Report. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 1979.
(d) Department or agency heads may require that specific research activities or classes of research activities conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by the Federal department or agency but not otherwise covered by this policy comply with some or all of the requirements of this policy.
(e) Compliance with this policy requires compliance with pertinent federal laws or regulations that provide additional protections for human subjects.
(f) This policy does not affect any state or local laws or regulations (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe) that may otherwise be applicable and that provide additional protections for human subjects.
(g) This policy does not affect any foreign laws or regulations that may otherwise be applicable and that provide additional protections to human subjects of research.
(h) When research covered by this policy takes place in foreign countries, procedures normally followed in the foreign countries to protect human subjects may differ from those set forth in this policy. In these circumstances, if a department or agency head determines that the procedures prescribed by the institution afford protections that are at least equivalent to those provided in this policy, the department or agency head may approve the substitution of the foreign procedures in lieu of the procedural requirements provided in this policy. Except when otherwise required by statute, Executive Order, or the department or agency head, notices of these actions as they occur will be published in the
Federal Register
or will be otherwise published as provided in department or agency procedures.
(i) Unless otherwise required by law, department or agency heads may waive the applicability of some or all of the provisions of this policy to specific research activities or classes of research activities otherwise covered by this policy, provided the alternative procedures to be followed are consistent with the principles of the Belmont Report.
63
Except when otherwise required by statute or Executive Order, the department or agency head shall forward advance notices of these actions to the Office for Human Research Protections, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), or any successor office, or to the equivalent office within the appropriate Federal department or agency, and shall also publish them in the
Federal Register
or in such other manner as provided in department or agency procedures. The waiver notice must include a statement that identifies the conditions under which the waiver will be applied and a justification as to why the waiver is appropriate for the research, including how the decision is consistent with the principles of the Belmont Report.
63
Id.
(j) Federal guidance on the requirements of this policy shall be issued only after consultation, for the purpose of harmonization (to the extent appropriate), with other Federal departments and agencies that have adopted this policy, unless such consultation is not feasible.
(k) [Reserved]
(l) Compliance dates and transition provisions:
(1)
Pre-2018 Requirements.
For purposes of this section, the
pre-2018 Requirements
means this subpart as published in the 2016 edition of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(2)
2018 Requirements.
For purposes of this section, the
2018 Requirements
means the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects requirements contained in this part. The general compliance date for the 2018 Requirements is January 21, 2019. The compliance date for § 60.114(b) (cooperative research) of the 2018 Requirements is January 20, 2020.
(3)
Research subject to pre-2018 requirements.
The pre-2018 Requirements shall apply to the following research, unless the research is transitioning to comply with the 2018 Requirements in accordance with paragraph (l)(4) of this section:
(i) Research initially approved by an IRB under the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019;
(ii) Research for which IRB review was waived pursuant to § 60.101(i) of the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019; and
(iii) Research for which a determination was made that the research was exempt under § 60.101(b) of the pre-2018 Requirements before January 21, 2019.
(4)
Transitioning research.
If, on or after July 19, 2018, an institution planning or engaged in research otherwise covered by paragraph (l)(3) of this section determines that such research instead will transition to comply with the 2018 Requirements, the institution or an IRB must document and date such determination.
(i) If the determination to transition is documented between July 19, 2018, and January 20, 2019, the research shall:
(A) Beginning on the date of such documentation through January 20, 2019, comply with the pre-2018 Requirements, except that the research shall comply with the following:
(
1
) Section 60.102(l) of the 2018 Requirements (definition of research) (instead of § 60.102(d) of the pre-2018 Requirements);
(
2
) Section 60.103(d) of the 2018 Requirements (revised certification requirement that eliminates IRB review of application or proposal) (instead of § 60.103(f) of the pre-2018 Requirements); and
(
3
) Section 60.109(f)(1)(i) and (iii) of the 2018 Requirements (exceptions to mandated continuing review) (instead of § 60.103(b), as related to the requirement for continuing review, and in addition to § 60.109, of the pre-2018 Requirements); and
(B) Beginning on January 21, 2019, comply with the 2018 Requirements.
(ii) If the determination to transition is documented on or after January 21, 2019, the research shall, beginning on the date of such documentation, comply with the 2018 Requirements.
(5)
Research subject to 2018 Requirements.
The 2018 Requirements shall apply to the following research:
(i) Research initially approved by an IRB on or after January 21, 2019;
(ii) Research for which IRB review is waived pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section on or after January 21, 2019; and
(iii) Research for which a determination is made that the research is exempt on or after January 21, 2019.
(m) Severability: Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, shall be construed so as to continue to give maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding shall be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision shall be severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof or the application of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other dissimilar circumstances.
[82 FR 7271, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 3591, Jan. 28, 2018; 83 FR 28514, June 19, 2018]
§ 60.102
Definitions for purposes of this policy.
(a)
Certification
means the official notification by the institution to the supporting Federal department or agency component, in accordance with the requirements of this policy, that a research project or activity involving human subjects has been reviewed and
approved by an IRB in accordance with an approved assurance.
(b)
Clinical trial
means a research study in which one or more human subjects are prospectively assigned to one or more interventions (which may include placebo or other control) to evaluate the effects of the interventions on biomedical or behavioral health-related outcomes.
(c)
Department or agency head
means the head of any Federal department or agency, for example, the Secretary of HHS, and any other officer or employee of any Federal department or agency to whom the authority provided by these regulations to the department or agency head has been delegated.
(d)
Federal department or agency
refers to a federal department or agency (the department or agency itself rather than its bureaus, offices or divisions) that takes appropriate administrative action to make this policy applicable to the research involving human subjects it conducts, supports, or otherwise regulates (
e.g.,
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Defense, or the Central Intelligence Agency).
(e)(1)
Human subject
means a living individual about whom an investigator (whether professional or student) conducting research:
(i) Obtains information or biospecimens through intervention or interaction with the individual, and uses, studies, or analyzes the information or biospecimens; or (ii) Obtains, uses, studies, analyzes, or generates identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Intervention
includes both physical procedures by which information or biospecimens are gathered (
e.g.,
venipuncture) and manipulations of the subject or the subject's environment that are performed for research purposes.
(3)
Interaction
includes communication or interpersonal contact between investigator and subject.
(4)
Private information
includes information about behavior that occurs in a context in which an individual can reasonably expect that no observation or recording is taking place, and information that has been provided for specific purposes by an individual and that the individual can reasonably expect will not be made public (
e.g.,
a medical record).
(5)
Identifiable private information
is private information for which the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the information.
(6)
An identifiable biospecimen
is a biospecimen for which the identity of the subject is or may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the biospecimen.
(7) Federal departments or agencies implementing this policy shall:
(i) Upon consultation with appropriate experts (including experts in data matching and re-identification), reexamine the meaning of “identifiable private information,” as defined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, and “identifiable biospecimen,” as defined in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. This reexamination shall take place within 1 year and regularly thereafter (at least every 4 years). This process will be conducted by collaboration among the Federal departments and agencies implementing this policy. If appropriate and permitted by law, such Federal departments and agencies may alter the interpretation of these terms, including through the use of guidance.
(ii) Upon consultation with appropriate experts, assess whether there are analytic technologies or techniques that should be considered by investigators to generate “identifiable private information,” as defined in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, or an “identifiable biospecimen,” as defined in paragraph (e)(6) of this section. This assessment shall take place within 1 year and regularly thereafter (at least every 4 years). This process will be conducted by collaboration among the Federal departments and agencies implementing this policy. Any such technologies or techniques will be included on a list of technologies or techniques that produce identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This list will be published in the
Federal Register
after notice and an opportunity for public comment. The Secretary, HHS, shall maintain the list on a publicly accessible Web site.
(f)
Institution
means any public or private entity, or department or agency (including federal, state, and other agencies).
(g)
IRB
means an institutional review board established in accord with and for the purposes expressed in this policy.
(h)
IRB approval
means the determination of the IRB that the research has been reviewed and may be conducted at an institution within the constraints set forth by the IRB and by other institutional and federal requirements.
(i)
Legally authorized representative
means an individual or judicial or other body authorized under applicable law to consent on behalf of a prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s) involved in the research. If there is no applicable law addressing this issue,
legally authorized representative
means an individual recognized by institutional policy as acceptable for providing consent in the nonresearch context on behalf of the prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s) involved in the research.
(j)
Minimal risk
means that the probability and magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of themselves than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or tests.
(k)
Public health authority
means an agency or authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision of a state or territory, an Indian tribe, or a foreign government, or a person or entity acting under a grant of authority from or contract with such public agency, including the employees or agents of such public agency or its contractors or persons or entities to whom it has granted authority, that is responsible for public health matters as part of its official mandate.
(l)
Research
means a systematic investigation, including research development, testing, and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge. Activities that meet this definition constitute research for purposes of this policy, whether or not they are conducted or supported under a program that is considered research for other purposes. For example, some demonstration and service programs may include research activities. For purposes of this part, the following activities are deemed not to be research:
(1) Scholarly and journalistic activities (
e.g.,
oral history, journalism, biography, literary criticism, legal research, and historical scholarship), including the collection and use of information, that focus directly on the specific individuals about whom the information is collected.
(2) Public health surveillance activities, including the collection and testing of information or biospecimens, conducted, supported, requested, ordered, required, or authorized by a public health authority. Such activities are limited to those necessary to allow a public health authority to identify, monitor, assess, or investigate potential public health signals, onsets of disease outbreaks, or conditions of public health importance (including trends, signals, risk factors, patterns in diseases, or increases in injuries from using consumer products). Such activities include those associated with providing timely situational awareness and priority setting during the course of an event or crisis that threatens public health (including natural or man-made disasters).
(3) Collection and analysis of information, biospecimens, or records by or for a criminal justice agency for activities authorized by law or court order solely for criminal justice or criminal investigative purposes.
(4) Authorized operational activities (as determined by each agency) in support of intelligence, homeland security, defense, or other national security missions.
(m)
Written,
or
in writing,
for purposes of this part, refers to writing on a tangible medium (
e.g.,
paper) or in an electronic format.
§ 60.103
Assuring compliance with this policy—research conducted or supported by any Federal department or agency.
(a) Each institution engaged in research that is covered by this policy,
with the exception of research eligible for exemption under § 60.104, and that is conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, shall provide written assurance satisfactory to the department or agency head that it will comply with the requirements of this policy. In lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, individual department or agency heads shall accept the existence of a current assurance, appropriate for the research in question, on file with the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office, and approved for Federal-wide use by that office. When the existence of an HHS-approved assurance is accepted in lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, reports (except certification) required by this policy to be made to department and agency heads shall also be made to the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office. Federal departments and agencies will conduct or support research covered by this policy only if the institution has provided an assurance that it will comply with the requirements of this policy, as provided in this section, and only if the institution has certified to the department or agency head that the research has been reviewed and approved by an IRB (if such certification is required by § 60.103(d)).
(b) The assurance shall be executed by an individual authorized to act for the institution and to assume on behalf of the institution the obligations imposed by this policy and shall be filed in such form and manner as the department or agency head prescribes.
(c) The department or agency head may limit the period during which any assurance shall remain effective or otherwise condition or restrict the assurance.
(d) Certification is required when the research is supported by a Federal department or agency and not otherwise waived under § 60.101(i) or exempted under § 60.104. For such research, institutions shall certify that each proposed research study covered by the assurance and this section has been reviewed and approved by the IRB. Such certification must be submitted as prescribed by the Federal department or agency component supporting the research. Under no condition shall research covered by this section be initiated prior to receipt of the certification that the research has been reviewed and approved by the IRB.
(e) For nonexempt research involving human subjects covered by this policy (or exempt research for which limited IRB review takes place pursuant to § 60.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), or (d)(7) or (8)) that takes place at an institution in which IRB oversight is conducted by an IRB that is not operated by the institution, the institution and the organization operating the IRB shall document the institution's reliance on the IRB for oversight of the research and the responsibilities that each entity will undertake to ensure compliance with the requirements of this policy (
e.g.,
in a written agreement between the institution and the IRB, by implementation of an institution-wide policy directive providing the allocation of responsibilities between the institution and an IRB that is not affiliated with the institution, or as set forth in a research protocol).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 60.104
Exempt research.
(a) Unless otherwise required by law or by department or agency heads, research activities in which the only involvement of human subjects will be in one or more of the categories in paragraph (d) of this section are exempt from the requirements of this policy, except that such activities must comply with the requirements of this section and as specified in each category.
(b) Use of the exemption categories for research subject to the requirements of subparts B, C, and D: Application of the exemption categories to research subject to the requirements of 45 CFR part 46, subparts B, C, and D, is as follows:
(1)
Subpart B.
Each of the exemptions at this section may be applied to research subject to subpart B if the conditions of the exemption are met.
(2)
Subpart C.
The exemptions at this section do not apply to research subject to subpart C, except for research aimed at involving a broader subject population that only incidentally includes prisoners.
(3)
Subpart D.
The exemptions at paragraphs (d)(1), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) of this section may be applied to research subject to subpart D if the conditions of the exemption are met. Paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section only may apply to research subject to subpart D involving educational tests or the observation of public behavior when the investigator(s) do not participate in the activities being observed. Paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section may not be applied to research subject to subpart D.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Except as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the following categories of human subjects research are exempt from this policy:
(1) Research, conducted in established or commonly accepted educational settings, that specifically involves normal educational practices that are not likely to adversely impact students' opportunity to learn required educational content or the assessment of educators who provide instruction. This includes most research on regular and special education instructional strategies, and research on the effectiveness of or the comparison among instructional techniques, curricula, or classroom management methods.
(2) Research that only includes interactions involving educational tests (cognitive, diagnostic, aptitude, achievement), survey procedures, interview procedures, or observation of public behavior (including visual or auditory recording) if at least one of the following criteria is met:
(i) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;
(ii) Any disclosure of the human subjects' responses outside the research would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the subjects' financial standing, employability, educational advancement, or reputation; or
(iii) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects can readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, and an IRB conducts a limited IRB review to make the determination required by § 60.111(a)(7).
(3)(i) Research involving benign behavioral interventions in conjunction with the collection of information from an adult subject through verbal or written responses (including data entry) or audiovisual recording if the subject prospectively agrees to the intervention and information collection and at least one of the following criteria is met:
(A) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects;
(B) Any disclosure of the human subjects' responses outside the research would not reasonably place the subjects at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the subjects' financial standing, employability, educational advancement, or reputation; or
(C) The information obtained is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects can readily be ascertained, directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, and an IRB conducts a limited IRB review to make the determination required by § 60.111(a)(7).
(ii) For the purpose of this provision, benign behavioral interventions are brief in duration, harmless, painless, not physically invasive, not likely to have a significant adverse lasting impact on the subjects, and the investigator has no reason to think the subjects will find the interventions offensive or embarrassing. Provided all such criteria are met, examples of such benign behavioral interventions would include having the subjects play an online game, having them solve puzzles under various noise conditions, or having them decide how to allocate a nominal amount of received cash between themselves and someone else.
(iii) If the research involves deceiving the subjects regarding the nature or purposes of the research, this exemption is not applicable unless the subject authorizes the deception through a prospective agreement to
participate in research in circumstances in which the subject is informed that he or she will be unaware of or misled regarding the nature or purposes of the research.
(4) Secondary research for which consent is not required: Secondary research uses of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, if at least one of the following criteria is met:
(i) The identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens are publicly available;
(ii) Information, which may include information about biospecimens, is recorded by the investigator in such a manner that the identity of the human subjects cannot readily be ascertained directly or through identifiers linked to the subjects, the investigator does not contact the subjects, and the investigator will not re-identify subjects;
(iii) The research involves only information collection and analysis involving the investigator's use of identifiable health information when that use is regulated under 45 CFR parts 160 and 164, subparts A and E, for the purposes of “health care operations” or “research” as those terms are defined at 45 CFR 164.501 or for “public health activities and purposes” as described under 45 CFR 164.512(b); or
(iv) The research is conducted by, or on behalf of, a Federal department or agency using government-generated or government-collected information obtained for nonresearch activities, if the research generates identifiable private information that is or will be maintained on information technology that is subject to and in compliance with section 208(b) of the E-Government Act of 2002, 44 U.S.C. 3501 note, if all of the identifiable private information collected, used, or generated as part of the activity will be maintained in systems of records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and, if applicable, the information used in the research was collected subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
(5) Research and demonstration projects that are conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, or otherwise subject to the approval of department or agency heads (or the approval of the heads of bureaus or other subordinate agencies that have been delegated authority to conduct the research and demonstration projects), and that are designed to study, evaluate, improve, or otherwise examine public benefit or service programs, including procedures for obtaining benefits or services under those programs, possible changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures, or possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services under those programs. Such projects include, but are not limited to, internal studies by Federal employees, and studies under contracts or consulting arrangements, cooperative agreements, or grants. Exempt projects also include waivers of otherwise mandatory requirements using authorities such as sections 1115 and 1115A of the Social Security Act, as amended.
(i) Each Federal department or agency conducting or supporting the research and demonstration projects must establish, on a publicly accessible Federal Web site or in such other manner as the department or agency head may determine, a list of the research and demonstration projects that the Federal department or agency conducts or supports under this provision. The research or demonstration project must be published on this list prior to commencing the research involving human subjects.
(ii) [Reserved]
(6) Taste and food quality evaluation and consumer acceptance studies:
(i) If wholesome foods without additives are consumed, or
(ii) If a food is consumed that contains a food ingredient at or below the level and for a use found to be safe, or agricultural chemical or environmental contaminant at or below the level found to be safe, by the Food and Drug Administration or approved by the Environmental Protection Agency or the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(7) Storage or maintenance for secondary research for which broad consent is required: Storage or maintenance of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens for potential secondary research use if an
IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determinations required by § 60.111(a)(8).
(8) Secondary research for which broad consent is required: Research involving the use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens for secondary research use, if the following criteria are met:
(i) Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens was obtained in accordance with § 60.116(a)(1) through (4), (a)(6), and (d);
(ii) Documentation of informed consent or waiver of documentation of consent was obtained in accordance with § 60.117;
(iii) An IRB conducts a limited IRB review and makes the determination required by § 60.111(a)(7) and makes the determination that the research to be conducted is within the scope of the broad consent referenced in paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section; and (iv) The investigator does not include returning individual research results to subjects as part of the study plan. This provision does not prevent an investigator from abiding by any legal requirements to return individual research results.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§§ 60.105-60.106
[Reserved]
§ 60.107
IRB membership.
(a) Each IRB shall have at least five members, with varying backgrounds to promote complete and adequate review of research activities commonly conducted by the institution. The IRB shall be sufficiently qualified through the experience and expertise of its members (professional competence), and the diversity of its members, including race, gender, and cultural backgrounds and sensitivity to such issues as community attitudes, to promote respect for its advice and counsel in safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects. The IRB shall be able to ascertain the acceptability of proposed research in terms of institutional commitments (including policies and resources) and regulations, applicable law, and standards of professional conduct and practice. The IRB shall therefore include persons knowledgeable in these areas. If an IRB regularly reviews research that involves a category of subjects that is vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, consideration shall be given to the inclusion of one or more individuals who are knowledgeable about and experienced in working with these categories of subjects.
(b) Each IRB shall include at least one member whose primary concerns are in scientific areas and at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas.
(c) Each IRB shall include at least one member who is not otherwise affiliated with the institution and who is not part of the immediate family of a person who is affiliated with the institution.
(d) No IRB may have a member participate in the IRB's initial or continuing review of any project in which the member has a conflicting interest, except to provide information requested by the IRB.
(e) An IRB may, in its discretion, invite individuals with competence in special areas to assist in the review of issues that require expertise beyond or in addition to that available on the IRB. These individuals may not vote with the IRB.
§ 60.108
IRB functions and operations.
(a) In order to fulfill the requirements of this policy each IRB shall:
(1) Have access to meeting space and sufficient staff to support the IRB's review and recordkeeping duties;
(2) Prepare and maintain a current list of the IRB members identified by name; earned degrees; representative capacity; indications of experience such as board certifications or licenses sufficient to describe each member's chief anticipated contributions to IRB deliberations; and any employment or other relationship between each member and the institution, for example, full-time employee, part-time employee, member of governing panel or board, stockholder, paid or unpaid consultant;
(3) Establish and follow written procedures for:
(i) Conducting its initial and continuing review of research and for reporting its findings and actions to the investigator and the institution;
(ii) Determining which projects require review more often than annually and which projects need verification from sources other than the investigators that no material changes have occurred since previous IRB review; and
(iii) Ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB of proposed changes in a research activity, and for ensuring that investigators will conduct the research activity in accordance with the terms of the IRB approval until any proposed changes have been reviewed and approved by the IRB, except when necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to the subject.
(4) Establish and follow written procedures for ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB; appropriate institutional officials; the department or agency head; and the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office, or the equivalent office within the appropriate Federal department or agency of
(i) Any unanticipated problems involving risks to subjects or others or any serious or continuing noncompliance with this policy or the requirements or determinations of the IRB; and
(ii) Any suspension or termination of IRB approval.
(b) Except when an expedited review procedure is used (as described in § 60.110), an IRB must review proposed research at convened meetings at which a majority of the members of the IRB are present, including at least one member whose primary concerns are in nonscientific areas. In order for the research to be approved, it shall receive the approval of a majority of those members present at the meeting.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 60.109
IRB review of research.
(a) An IRB shall review and have authority to approve, require modifications in (to secure approval), or disapprove all research activities covered by this policy, including exempt research activities under § 60.104 for which limited IRB review is a condition of exemption (under § 60.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), and (d)(7), and (8)).
(b) An IRB shall require that information given to subjects (or legally authorized representatives, when appropriate) as part of informed consent is in accordance with § 60.116. The IRB may require that information, in addition to that specifically mentioned in § 60.116, be given to the subjects when in the IRB's judgment the information would meaningfully add to the protection of the rights and welfare of subjects.
(c) An IRB shall require documentation of informed consent or may waive documentation in accordance with § 60.117.
(d) An IRB shall notify investigators and the institution in writing of its decision to approve or disapprove the proposed research activity, or of modifications required to secure IRB approval of the research activity. If the IRB decides to disapprove a research activity, it shall include in its written notification a statement of the reasons for its decision and give the investigator an opportunity to respond in person or in writing.
(e) An IRB shall conduct continuing review of research requiring review by the convened IRB at intervals appropriate to the degree of risk, not less than once per year, except as described in § 60.109(f).
(f)(1) Unless an IRB determines otherwise, continuing review of research is not required in the following circumstances:
(i) Research eligible for expedited review in accordance with § 60.110;
(ii) Research reviewed by the IRB in accordance with the limited IRB review described in § 60.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), or (d)(7) or (8);
(iii) Research that has progressed to the point that it involves only one or both of the following, which are part of the IRB-approved study:
(A) Data analysis, including analysis of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, or
(B) Accessing follow-up clinical data from procedures that subjects would undergo as part of clinical care.
(2) [Reserved]
(g) An IRB shall have authority to observe or have a third party observe the consent process and the research.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 60.110
Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved research.
(a) The Secretary of HHS has established, and published as a Notice in the
Federal Register,
a list of categories of research that may be reviewed by the IRB through an expedited review procedure. The Secretary will evaluate the list at least every 8 years and amend it, as appropriate, after consultation with other federal departments and agencies and after publication in the
Federal Register
for public comment. A copy of the list is available from the Office for Human Research Protections, HHS, or any successor office.
(b)(1) An IRB may use the expedited review procedure to review the following:
(i) Some or all of the research appearing on the list described in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the reviewer determines that the study involves more than minimal risk;
(ii) Minor changes in previously approved research during the period for which approval is authorized; or
(iii) Research for which limited IRB review is a condition of exemption under § 60.104(d)(2)(iii), (d)(3)(i)(C), and (d)(7) and (8).
(2) Under an expedited review procedure, the review may be carried out by the IRB chairperson or by one or more experienced reviewers designated by the chairperson from among members of the IRB. In reviewing the research, the reviewers may exercise all of the authorities of the IRB except that the reviewers may not disapprove the research. A research activity may be disapproved only after review in accordance with the nonexpedited procedure set forth in § 60.108(b).
(c) Each IRB that uses an expedited review procedure shall adopt a method for keeping all members advised of research proposals that have been approved under the procedure.
(d) The department or agency head may restrict, suspend, terminate, or choose not to authorize an institution's or IRB's use of the expedited review procedure.
§ 60.111
Criteria for IRB approval of research.
(a) In order to approve research covered by this policy the IRB shall determine that all of the following requirements are satisfied:
(1) Risks to subjects are minimized:
(i) By using procedures that are consistent with sound research design and that do not unnecessarily expose subjects to risk, and
(ii) Whenever appropriate, by using procedures already being performed on the subjects for diagnostic or treatment purposes.
(2) Risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits, if any, to subjects, and the importance of the knowledge that may reasonably be expected to result. In evaluating risks and benefits, the IRB should consider only those risks and benefits that may result from the research (as distinguished from risks and benefits of therapies subjects would receive even if not participating in the research). The IRB should not consider possible long-range effects of applying knowledge gained in the research (
e.g.,
the possible effects of the research on public policy) as among those research risks that fall within the purview of its responsibility.
(3) Selection of subjects is equitable. In making this assessment the IRB should take into account the purposes of the research and the setting in which the research will be conducted. The IRB should be particularly cognizant of the special problems of research that involves a category of subjects who are vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons.
(4) Informed consent will be sought from each prospective subject or the
subject's legally authorized representative, in accordance with, and to the extent required by, § 60.116.
(5) Informed consent will be appropriately documented or appropriately waived in accordance with § 60.117.
(6) When appropriate, the research plan makes adequate provision for monitoring the data collected to ensure the safety of subjects.
(7) When appropriate, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(i) The Secretary of HHS will, after consultation with the Office of Management and Budget's privacy office and other Federal departments and agencies that have adopted this policy, issue guidance to assist IRBs in assessing what provisions are adequate to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(ii) [Reserved]
(8) For purposes of conducting the limited IRB review required by § 60.104(d)(7)), the IRB need not make the determinations at paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, and shall make the following determinations:
(i) Broad consent for storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens is obtained in accordance with the requirements of § 60.116(a)(1)-(4), (a)(6), and (d);
(ii) Broad consent is appropriately documented or waiver of documentation is appropriate, in accordance with § 60.117; and
(iii) If there is a change made for research purposes in the way the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens are stored or maintained, there are adequate provisions to protect the privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.
(b) When some or all of the subjects are likely to be vulnerable to coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, or economically or educationally disadvantaged persons, additional safeguards have been included in the study to protect the rights and welfare of these subjects.
§ 60.112
Review by Institution
Research covered by this policy that has been approved by an IRB may be subject to further appropriate review and approval or disapproval by officials of the institution. However, those officials may not approve the research if it has not been approved by an IRB.
§ 60.113
Suspension or Termination of IRB Approval of Research.
An IRB shall have authority to suspend or terminate approval of research that is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements or that has been associated with unexpected serious harm to subjects. Any suspension or termination of approval shall include a statement of the reasons for the IRB's action and shall be reported promptly to the investigator, appropriate institutional officials, and the department or agency head.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 60.114
Cooperative Research.
(a) Cooperative research projects are those projects covered by this policy that involve more than one institution. In the conduct of cooperative research projects, each institution is responsible for safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects and for complying with this policy.
(b)(1) Any institution located in the United States that is engaged in cooperative research must rely upon approval by a single IRB for that portion of the research that is conducted in the United States. The reviewing IRB will be identified by the Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the research or proposed by the lead institution subject to the acceptance of the Federal department or agency supporting the research.
(2) The following research is not subject to this provision:
(i) Cooperative research for which more than single IRB review is required by law (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe); or
(ii) Research for which any Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the research determines
and documents that the use of a single IRB is not appropriate for the particular context.
(c) For research not subject to paragraph (b) of this section, an institution participating in a cooperative project may enter into a joint review arrangement, rely on the review of another IRB, or make similar arrangements for avoiding duplication of effort.
§ 60.115
IRB Records.
(a) An institution, or when appropriate an IRB, shall prepare and maintain adequate documentation of IRB activities, including the following:
(1) Copies of all research proposals reviewed, scientific evaluations, if any, that accompany the proposals, approved sample consent forms, progress reports submitted by investigators, and reports of injuries to subjects.
(2) Minutes of IRB meetings, which shall be in sufficient detail to show attendance at the meetings; actions taken by the IRB; the vote on these actions including the number of members voting for, against, and abstaining; the basis for requiring changes in or disapproving research; and a written summary of the discussion of controverted issues and their resolution.
(3) Records of continuing review activities, including the rationale for conducting continuing review of research that otherwise would not require continuing review as described in § 60.109(f)(1).
(4) Copies of all correspondence between the IRB and the investigators.
(5) A list of IRB members in the same detail as described in § 60.108(a)(2).
(6) Written procedures for the IRB in the same detail as described in § 60.108(a)(3) and (4).
(7) Statements of significant new findings provided to subjects, as required by § 60.116(c)(5).
(8) The rationale for an expedited reviewer's determination under § 60.110(b)(1)(i) that research appearing on the expedited review list described in § 60.110(a) is more than minimal risk.
(9) Documentation specifying the responsibilities that an institution and an organization operating an IRB each will undertake to ensure compliance with the requirements of this policy, as described in § 60.103(e).
(b) The records required by this policy shall be retained for at least 3 years, and records relating to research that is conducted shall be retained for at least 3 years after completion of the research. The institution or IRB may maintain the records in printed form, or electronically. All records shall be accessible for inspection and copying by authorized representatives of the Federal department or agency at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 60.116
General Requirements for Informed Consent.
(a)
General.
General requirements for informed consent, whether written or oral, are set forth in this paragraph and apply to consent obtained in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Broad consent may be obtained in lieu of informed consent obtained in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section only with respect to the storage, maintenance, and secondary research uses of identifiable private information and identifiable biospecimens. Waiver or alteration of consent in research involving public benefit and service programs conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local officials is described in paragraph (e) of this section. General waiver or alteration of informed consent is described in paragraph (f) of this section. Except as provided elsewhere in this policy:
(1) Before involving a human subject in research covered by this policy, an investigator shall obtain the legally effective informed consent of the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(2) An investigator shall seek informed consent only under circumstances that provide the prospective subject or the legally authorized representative sufficient opportunity to discuss and consider whether or not to participate and that minimize the possibility of coercion or undue influence.
(3) The information that is given to the subject or the legally authorized
representative shall be in language understandable to the subject or the legally authorized representative.
(4) The prospective subject or the legally authorized representative must be provided with the information that a reasonable person would want to have in order to make an informed decision about whether to participate, and an opportunity to discuss that information.
(5) Except for broad consent obtained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section:
(i) Informed consent must begin with a concise and focused presentation of the key information that is most likely to assist a prospective subject or legally authorized representative in understanding the reasons why one might or might not want to participate in the research. This part of the informed consent must be organized and presented in a way that facilitates comprehension.
(ii) Informed consent as a whole must present information in sufficient detail relating to the research, and must be organized and presented in a way that does not merely provide lists of isolated facts, but rather facilitates the prospective subject's or legally authorized representative's understanding of the reasons why one might or might not want to participate.
(6) No informed consent may include any exculpatory language through which the subject or the legally authorized representative is made to waive or appear to waive any of the subject's legal rights, or releases or appears to release the investigator, the sponsor, the institution, or its agents from liability for negligence.
(b)
Basic elements of informed consent.
Except as provided in paragraph (d), (e), or (f) of this section, in seeking informed consent the following information shall be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:
(1) A statement that the study involves research, an explanation of the purposes of the research and the expected duration of the subject's participation, a description of the procedures to be followed, and identification of any procedures that are experimental;
(2) A description of any reasonably foreseeable risks or discomforts to the subject;
(3) A description of any benefits to the subject or to others that may reasonably be expected from the research;
(4) A disclosure of appropriate alternative procedures or courses of treatment, if any, that might be advantageous to the subject;
(5) A statement describing the extent, if any, to which confidentiality of records identifying the subject will be maintained;
(6) For research involving more than minimal risk, an explanation as to whether any compensation and an explanation as to whether any medical treatments are available if injury occurs and, if so, what they consist of, or where further information may be obtained;
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to pertinent questions about the research and research subjects' rights, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related injury to the subject;
(8) A statement that participation is voluntary, refusal to participate will involve no penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled, and the subject may discontinue participation at any time without penalty or loss of benefits to which the subject is otherwise entitled; and
(9) One of the following statements about any research that involves the collection of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens:
(i) A statement that identifiers might be removed from the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens and that, after such removal, the information or biospecimens could be used for future research studies or distributed to another investigator for future research studies without additional informed consent from the subject or the legally authorized representative, if this might be a possibility; or
(ii) A statement that the subject's information or biospecimens collected as part of the research, even if identifiers are removed, will not be used or distributed for future research studies.
(c)
Additional elements of informed consent.
Except as provided in paragraph
(d), (e), or (f) of this section, one or more of the following elements of information, when appropriate, shall also be provided to each subject or the legally authorized representative:
(1) A statement that the particular treatment or procedure may involve risks to the subject (or to the embryo or fetus, if the subject is or may become pregnant) that are currently unforeseeable;
(2) Anticipated circumstances under which the subject's participation may be terminated by the investigator without regard to the subject's or the legally authorized representative's consent;
(3) Any additional costs to the subject that may result from participation in the research;
(4) The consequences of a subject's decision to withdraw from the research and procedures for orderly termination of participation by the subject;
(5) A statement that significant new findings developed during the course of the research that may relate to the subject's willingness to continue participation will be provided to the subject;
(6) The approximate number of subjects involved in the study;
(7) A statement that the subject's biospecimens (even if identifiers are removed) may be used for commercial profit and whether the subject will or will not share in this commercial profit;
(8) A statement regarding whether clinically relevant research results, including individual research results, will be disclosed to subjects, and if so, under what conditions; and
(9) For research involving biospecimens, whether the research will (if known) or might include whole genome sequencing (
i.e.,
sequencing of a human germline or somatic specimen with the intent to generate the genome or exome sequence of that specimen).
(d)
Elements of broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
Broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens (collected for either research studies other than the proposed research or nonresearch purposes) is permitted as an alternative to the informed consent requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. If the subject or the legally authorized representative is asked to provide broad consent, the following shall be provided to each subject or the subject's legally authorized representative:
(1) The information required in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(5), and (b)(8) and, when appropriate, (c)(7) and (9) of this section;
(2) A general description of the types of research that may be conducted with the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens. This description must include sufficient information such that a reasonable person would expect that the broad consent would permit the types of research conducted;
(3) A description of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens that might be used in research, whether sharing of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens might occur, and the types of institutions or researchers that might conduct research with the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens;
(4) A description of the period of time that the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens may be stored and maintained (which period of time could be indefinite), and a description of the period of time that the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens may be used for research purposes (which period of time could be indefinite);
(5) Unless the subject or legally authorized representative will be provided details about specific research studies, a statement that they will not be informed of the details of any specific research studies that might be conducted using the subject's identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, including the purposes of the research, and that they might have chosen not to consent to some of those specific research studies;
(6) Unless it is known that clinically relevant research results, including individual research results, will be disclosed to the subject in all circumstances, a statement that such results may not be disclosed to the subject; and
(7) An explanation of whom to contact for answers to questions about the subject's rights and about storage and use of the subject's identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, and whom to contact in the event of a research-related harm.
(e)
Waiver or alteration of consent in research involving public benefit and service programs conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local officials
—(1)
Waiver.
An IRB may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent for research under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If an individual was asked to provide broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens in accordance with the requirements at paragraph (d) of this section, and refused to consent, an IRB cannot waive consent for the storage, maintenance, or secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Alteration.
An IRB may approve a consent procedure that omits some, or alters some or all, of the elements of informed consent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. An IRB may not omit or alter any of the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section. If a broad consent procedure is used, an IRB may not omit or alter any of the elements required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Requirements for waiver and alteration.
In order for an IRB to waive or alter consent as described in this subsection, the IRB must find and document that:
(i) The research or demonstration project is to be conducted by or subject to the approval of state or local government officials and is designed to study, evaluate, or otherwise examine:
(A) Public benefit or service programs;
(B) Procedures for obtaining benefits or services under those programs;
(C) Possible changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures; or
(D) Possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services under those programs; and
(ii) The research could not practicably be carried out without the waiver or alteration.
(f)
General waiver or alteration of consent
—(1)
Waiver.
An IRB may waive the requirement to obtain informed consent for research under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. If an individual was asked to provide broad consent for the storage, maintenance, and secondary research use of identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens in accordance with the requirements at paragraph (d) of this section, and refused to consent, an IRB cannot waive consent for the storage, maintenance, or secondary research use of the identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens.
(2)
Alteration.
An IRB may approve a consent procedure that omits some, or alters some or all, of the elements of informed consent set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided the IRB satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. An IRB may not omit or alter any of the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section. If a broad consent procedure is used, an IRB may not omit or alter any of the elements required under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3)
Requirements for waiver and alteration.
In order for an IRB to waive or alter consent as described in this subsection, the IRB must find and document that:
(i) The research involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects;
(ii) The research could not practicably be carried out without the requested waiver or alteration;
(iii) If the research involves using identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens, the research could not practicably be carried out
without using such information or biospecimens in an identifiable format;
(iv) The waiver or alteration will not adversely affect the rights and welfare of the subjects; and
(v) Whenever appropriate, the subjects or legally authorized representatives will be provided with additional pertinent information after participation.
(g)
Screening, recruiting, or determining eligibility.
An IRB may approve a research proposal in which an investigator will obtain information or biospecimens for the purpose of screening, recruiting, or determining the eligibility of prospective subjects without the informed consent of the prospective subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, if either of the following conditions are met:
(1) The investigator will obtain information through oral or written communication with the prospective subject or legally authorized representative, or
(2) The investigator will obtain identifiable private information or identifiable biospecimens by accessing records or stored identifiable biospecimens.
(h)
Posting of clinical trial consent form.
(1) For each clinical trial conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency, one IRB-approved informed consent form used to enroll subjects must be posted by the awardee or the Federal department or agency component conducting the trial on a publicly available Federal Web site that will be established as a repository for such informed consent forms.
(2) If the Federal department or agency supporting or conducting the clinical trial determines that certain information should not be made publicly available on a Federal Web site (
e.g.
confidential commercial information), such Federal department or agency may permit or require redactions to the information posted.
(3) The informed consent form must be posted on the Federal Web site after the clinical trial is closed to recruitment, and no later than 60 days after the last study visit by any subject, as required by the protocol.
(i)
Preemption.
The informed consent requirements in this policy are not intended to preempt any applicable Federal, state, or local laws (including tribal laws passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe) that require additional information to be disclosed in order for informed consent to be legally effective.
(j)
Emergency medical care.
Nothing in this policy is intended to limit the authority of a physician to provide emergency medical care, to the extent the physician is permitted to do so under applicable Federal, state, or local law (including tribal law passed by the official governing body of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 60.117
Documentation of informed consent.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, informed consent shall be documented by the use of a written informed consent form approved by the IRB and signed (including in an electronic format) by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. A written copy shall be given to the person signing the informed consent form.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the informed consent form may be either of the following:
(1) A written informed consent form that meets the requirements of § 60.116. The investigator shall give either the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative adequate opportunity to read the informed consent form before it is signed; alternatively, this form may be read to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
(2) A short form written informed consent form stating that the elements of informed consent required by § 60.116 have been presented orally to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, and that the key information required by § 60.116(a)(5)(i) was presented first to the subject, before other information, if any, was provided. The IRB shall approve a written summary of what is to be said to the subject or the legally authorized representative. When this method is used, there shall be a witness to the oral
presentation. Only the short form itself is to be signed by the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative. However, the witness shall sign both the short form and a copy of the summary, and the person actually obtaining consent shall sign a copy of the summary. A copy of the summary shall be given to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, in addition to a copy of the short form.
(c)(1) An IRB may waive the requirement for the investigator to obtain a signed informed consent form for some or all subjects if it finds any of the following:
(i) That the only record linking the subject and the research would be the informed consent form and the principal risk would be potential harm resulting from a breach of confidentiality. Each subject (or legally authorized representative) will be asked whether the subject wants documentation linking the subject with the research, and the subject's wishes will govern;
(ii) That the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and involves no procedures for which written consent is normally required outside of the research context; or
(iii) If the subjects or legally authorized representatives are members of a distinct cultural group or community in which signing forms is not the norm, that the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to subjects and provided there is an appropriate alternative mechanism for documenting that informed consent was obtained.
(2) In cases in which the documentation requirement is waived, the IRB may require the investigator to provide subjects or legally authorized representatives with a written statement regarding the research.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0990-0260)
§ 60.118
Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for involvement of human subjects.
Certain types of applications for grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts are submitted to Federal departments or agencies with the knowledge that subjects may be involved within the period of support, but definite plans would not normally be set forth in the application or proposal. These include activities such as institutional type grants when selection of specific projects is the institution's responsibility; research training grants in which the activities involving subjects remain to be selected; and projects in which human subjects' involvement will depend upon completion of instruments, prior animal studies, or purification of compounds. Except for research waived under § 60.101(i) or exempted under § 60.104, no human subjects may be involved in any project supported by these awards until the project has been reviewed and approved by the IRB, as provided in this policy, and certification submitted, by the institution, to the Federal department or agency component supporting the research.
§ 60.119
Research undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects.
Except for research waived under § 60.101(i) or exempted under § 60.104, in the event research is undertaken without the intention of involving human subjects, but it is later proposed to involve human subjects in the research, the research shall first be reviewed and approved by an IRB, as provided in this policy, a certification submitted by the institution to the Federal department or agency component supporting the research, and final approval given to the proposed change by the Federal department or agency component.
§ 60.120
Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for research to be conducted or supported by a Federal department or agency.
(a) The department or agency head will evaluate all applications and proposals involving human subjects submitted to the Federal department or agency through such officers and employees of the Federal department or agency and such experts and consultants as the department or agency head determines to be appropriate. This evaluation will take into consideration the risks to the subjects, the adequacy of protection against these risks, the potential benefits of the research to
the subjects and others, and the importance of the knowledge gained or to be gained.
(b) On the basis of this evaluation, the department or agency head may approve or disapprove the application or proposal, or enter into negotiations to develop an approvable one.
§ 60.121
[Reserved]
§ 60.122
Use of Federal funds.
Federal funds administered by a Federal department or agency may not be expended for research involving human subjects unless the requirements of this policy have been satisfied.
§ 60.123
Early termination of research support: Evaluation of applications and proposals.
(a) The department or agency head may require that Federal department or agency support for any project be terminated or suspended in the manner prescribed in applicable program requirements, when the department or agency head finds an institution has materially failed to comply with the terms of this policy.
(b) In making decisions about supporting or approving applications or proposals covered by this policy the department or agency head may take into account, in addition to all other eligibility requirements and program criteria, factors such as whether the applicant has been subject to a termination or suspension under paragraph (a) of this section and whether the applicant or the person or persons who would direct or has/have directed the scientific and technical aspects of an activity has/have, in the judgment of the department or agency head, materially failed to discharge responsibility for the protection of the rights and welfare of human subjects (whether or not the research was subject to federal regulation).
§ 60.124
Conditions.
With respect to any research project or any class of research projects the department or agency head of either the conducting or the supporting Federal department or agency may impose additional conditions prior to or at the time of approval when in the judgment of the department or agency head additional conditions are necessary for the protection of human subjects.
Pt. 70

# PART 70—USE OF VOLUNTEERS ON PROJECTS SUBJECT TO DAVIS-BACON AND HUD-DETERMINED WAGE RATES
Sec.
70.1
Purpose and authority.
70.2
Applicability.
70.3
Definitions.
70.4
Procedure for implementing prevailing wage exemptions for volunteers.
70.5
Procedure for obtaining HUD waiver of prevailing wage rates for volunteers.

# Authority:
Sec. 955, Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 1437(j), 5310 and 12 U.S.C. 1701q(c)(3); Sec. 7(d) Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(d)).

# Source:
57 FR 14756, Apr. 22, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 70.1
Purpose and authority.
(a) This part implements section 955 of the National Affordable Housing Act (NAHA), which provides an exemption from the requirement to pay prevailing wage rates determined under the Davis-Bacon Act or (in the case of laborers and mechanics employed in the operation of public housing projects, and architects, technical engineers, draftsmen and technicians employed in the development of public housing projects) determined or adopted by HUD, for volunteers employed on projects that are subject to prevailing wage rates under Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (including Community Development Block Grants, section 108 loan guarantees, and Urban Development Action Grants), under section 12 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (public housing development and operation and section 8 projects), and under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 for elderly and handicapped housing projects prior to the effective date of the amendment of section 202 by section 801 of NAHA. This part also implements other provisions that provide an exemption for volunteers, including section 286 of NAHA (the HOME program), section 202 of the House Act of 1959, as amended by NAHA (supportive
housing for the elderly), and any later-enacted exemptions.
(b) This part is also applicable to all HUD programs for which there is a statutory provision allowing HUD to waive Davis-Bacon wage rates for volunteers that are not otherwise employed at any time on the work for which the individual volunteers. These programs include section 811 of NAHA (supportive housing for persons with disabilities), FHA mortgage insurance programs under sections 221(d)(3) and (d)(4) (each with respect to cooperative housing projects only), 221(h)(1) (but only where a nonprofit organization undertakes the construction), 235(j)(1) (but only where a nonprofit organization undertakes the construction), 231, 232, 236 and 242 of the National Housing Act, rehabilitation under section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964 and college housing under section 402 of the Housing Act of 1950.
(c) This part provides definitions and procedures for determining allowable payments to volunteers, determining who is a bona fide volunteer, and otherwise implementing exemptions from and waivers of prevailing wage requirements where volunteers are employed.
§ 70.2
Applicability.
This part applies to all HUD programs for which there is a statutory exemption from Davis-Bacon or HUD-determined prevailing wage rates for volunteers or a statutory provision allowing HUD waiver of Davis-Bacon prevailing wage rates for volunteers. The programs to which this part applies include the programs listed in section 70.1(a) and (b) and any other program for which a statutory exemption or HUD waiver provision for volunteers is enacted. This part does not, however, apply to HUD waivers of prevailing wage requirements under section 20 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for public housing residents who volunteer a portion of their labor (see 24 CFR 964.41). This part also does not apply to the contribution of labor by an eligible family under the Mutual Help Homeownership Opportunity Program for Indian families under section 202 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
§ 70.3
Definitions.
(a) A
volunteer,
for purposes of this part, is an individual who performs service for a public or private entity for civic, charitable, or humanitarian reasons, without promise, expectation or receipt of compensation for services rendered, on a HUD-assisted or insured project which is subject to a requirement to pay prevailing wage rates.
(1) Individuals shall be considered volunteers only where their services are offered freely and without pressure and coercion, direct or implied, from an employer.
(2) An individual shall not be considered a volunteer if the individual is otherwise employed at any time in the construction or maintenance work for which the individual volunteers.
(b)
Expenses, reasonable benefits, or nominal fees
may be provided to volunteers without the status of the volunteer being lost but only after a determination is made by HUD on a case-by-case basis by examining the total amount of payments made (expenses, benefits, fees) in the context of the economic realities of the particular situation. Subject to this determination:
(1) A payment for an
expense
may be received by a volunteer for items such as uniform allowances or reimbursement for reasonable cleaning expenses or wear and tear on personal clothing worn while performing the volunteer work. Additionally, reimbursement for approximate out-of-pocket expenses for the cost of meals and transportation expenses may be made.
(2)
Reasonable benefits
may constitute inclusion of individual volunteers in group insurance plans (such as liability, health, life, disability, workers' compensation) or pension plan or length of service awards.
(3) A
nominal fee
is not a substitute for compensation and must not be tied to productivity. The decision as to what constitutes “nominal” must be made on a case-by-case basis and in the context of the economic realities of the situation.
(4) The phrase
economic realities
means that in determining whether the fee described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be deemed “nominal”, the amount of the fee must be judged in the context of what paid workers doing
the same work would earn in the particular locality involved. For example, a “payment” made to a “homeless” volunteer in an amount which covers basic necessities but nonetheless represents an insignificant amount when compared with local cost of living and real wages may be determined to be nominal for purposes of qualifying as a volunteer, provided the payment is not in fact a substitute for compensation and is not tied in any way to productivity.
(c)
Prevailing wage rates,
for purposes of this part, means:
(1) Wage rates required to be paid to laborers and mechanics employed in the construction (including rehabilitation) of a project (or in the case of public housing, the development of the project), as determined by the Secretary of Labor under the Davis-Bacon Act;
(2) Wage rates required to be paid to laborers and mechanics employed in the operation of a public housing project, as determined or adopted by the Secretary of HUD; and
(3) Wage rates required to be paid to architects, technical engineers, draftsmen and technicians employed in the development of a public housing project, as determined or adopted by the Secretary of HUD.
§ 70.4
Procedure for implementing prevailing wage exemptions for volunteers.
(a) This section applies to those HUD programs for which there is a statutory
exemption
for volunteers, as referenced in § 70.1(a).
(b) Local or State agencies or private parties whose employees are otherwise subject to Davis-Bacon or HUD-determined prevailing wage rates which propose to use volunteers and wish to pay the volunteers' expenses, reasonable benefits, or nominal fees shall request a determination from HUD that these payments meet the criteria in § 70.3(b). A written determination shall be provided to the requester by the Department within ten days of receipt by the Department of sufficient information to allow for the determination.
(c) A determination under paragraph (b) shall not be construed in any way as limiting the use of bona fide volunteers on HUD-assisted construction, but rather is required to ensure that the Department performs its appropriate responsibilities under Reorganization Plan No. 14 of 1950 and related Department of Labor Regulations in title 29 CFR part 5, regarding the administration and enforcement of the Davis-Bacon and Related Acts, and its responsibility for the administration and enforcement of HUD-determined or adopted wage rates in the operation of public housing assisted under the United States Housing Act of 1937.
(d) For a project covered by prevailing wage rate requirements in which all the work is to be done by volunteers and there are no paid construction employees, the local or State funding agency (or, if none, the entity that employs the volunteers) shall record in the pertinent project file the name and address of the agency sponsoring the project, a description of the project (location, cost, nature of the work), and the number of volunteers and the hours of work they performed. The entity responsible for recording this information shall also provide a copy of this information to HUD.
(e) For a project covered by prevailing wage rate requirements in which there is to be a mix of paid workers and volunteers, the local or State funding agency (or, if none, the entity responsible for generating certified payrolls) shall provide HUD the information in paragraph (d) of this section, along with the names of the volunteers.
(f) Volunteers who receive no expenses, benefits or fees described in (c) and are otherwise bona fide shall be recorded as in (d) or (e).
§ 70.5
Procedure for obtaining HUD waiver of prevailing wage rates for volunteers.
(a) This section applies to those HUD programs under which HUD is statutorily authorized to
waive
prevailing wage requirements for volunteers, as referenced in § 70.1(b).
(b) Local or State agencies or private parties whose employees are otherwise subject to prevailing wage rates and
which wish to use volunteers shall request a waiver of prevailing wage requirements from HUD for the volunteers. A request for waiver shall indicate that the proposed volunteers are volunteering their services for the purposes of lowering the costs of construction. The request shall include information sufficient for HUD to make a determination, as required by statute, that any amounts saved through the use of volunteers are fully credited to the corporation, cooperative, or public body or agency undertaking the construction and a determination that any payments to volunteers meet the criteria in section 70.3(b). Information regarding the crediting of amounts saved is required in order to insure that the statutorily prescribed purpose of lowering the costs of construction is fulfilled by passing savings from the use of volunteers on to the sponsor or other body or agency undertaking the construction, rather than permitting the retention of any savings as a windfall by a contractor or subcontractor. A written waiver shall be provided to the requestor by the Department within ten days of receipt by the Department of sufficient information to meet the requirements for a waiver.
(c) For a project covered by prevailing wage rate requirements in which all the work is to be done by volunteers and there are no paid construction employees, the local or State funding agency (or, if none, the entity that employs the volunteers) shall record in the pertinent project file the name and address of the agency sponsoring the project, the name, location, and HUD project number (if any) of the project, the number of volunteers, and type of work and hours of work they performed. The entity responsible for recording this information shall provide a copy of the information to HUD.
(d) For a project covered by prevailing wage rate requirements in which there is to be a mix of paid workers and volunteers, the local or State funding agency (or, if none, the entity responsible for generating certified payrolls) shall provide HUD the information in (c) of this section, along with the names of the proposed volunteers.
Pt. 75

# PART 75—ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOW- AND VERY LOW-INCOME PERSONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
75.1
Purpose.
75.3
Applicability.
75.5
Definitions.
75.7
Requirements applicable to HUD NOFAs for Section 3 covered programs.

# Subpart B—Additional Provisions for Public Housing Financial Assistance
75.9
Requirements.
75.11
Targeted Section 3 worker for public housing financial assistance.
75.13
Section 3 safe harbor.
75.15
Reporting.
75.17
Contract provisions.

# Subpart C—Additional Provisions for Housing and Community Development Financial Assistance
75.19
Requirements.
75.21
Targeted Section 3 worker for housing and community development financial assistance.
75.23
Section 3 safe harbor.
75.25
Reporting.
75.27
Contract provisions.

# Subpart D—Provisions for Multiple Funding Sources, Recordkeeping and Compliance
75.29
Multiple funding sources.
75.31
Recordkeeping.
75.33
Compliance.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701u; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
85 FR 61562, Sept. 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 75.1
Purpose.
This part establishes the requirements to be followed to ensure the objectives of Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u) (Section 3) are met. The purpose of Section 3 is to ensure that economic opportunities, most importantly employment, generated by certain HUD financial assistance shall be directed to low- and very low-income persons, particularly those who are recipients of government assistance for housing or residents of the community
in which the Federal assistance is spent.
§ 75.3
Applicability.
(a)
General applicability.
Section 3 applies to public housing financial assistance and Section 3 projects, as follows:
(1)
Public housing financial assistance.
Public housing financial assistance means:
(i) Development assistance provided pursuant to section 5 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (the 1937 Act);
(ii) Operations and management assistance provided pursuant to section 9(e) of the 1937 Act;
(iii) Development, modernization, and management assistance provided pursuant to section 9(d) of the 1937 Act; and
(iv) The entirety of a mixed-finance development project as described in 24 CFR 905.604, regardless of whether the project is fully or partially assisted with public housing financial assistance as defined in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(2)
Section 3 projects.
(i) Section 3 projects means housing rehabilitation, housing construction, and other public construction projects assisted under HUD programs that provide housing and community development financial assistance when the total amount of assistance to the project exceeds a threshold of $200,000. The threshold is $100,000 where the assistance is from the Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes programs, as authorized by Sections 501 or 502 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z-1 or 1701z-2), the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C 4801
et seq.
); and the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851
et seq.
). The project is the site or sites together with any building(s) and improvements located on the site(s) that are under common ownership, management, and financing.
(ii) The Secretary must update the thresholds provided in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section not less than once every 5 years based on a national construction cost inflation factor through
Federal Register
notice not subject to public comment. When the Secretary finds it is warranted to ensure compliance with Section 3, the Secretary may adjust, regardless of the national construction cost factor, such thresholds through
Federal Register
notice, subject to public comment.
(iii) The requirements in this part apply to an entire Section 3 project, regardless of whether the project is fully or partially assisted under HUD programs that provide housing and community development financial assistance.
(b)
Contracts for materials.
Section 3 requirements do not apply to material supply contracts.
(c)
Indian and Tribal preferences.
Contracts, subcontracts, grants, or subgrants subject to Section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5307(b)) or subject to tribal preference requirements as authorized under 101(k) of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 4111(k)) must provide preferences in employment, training, and business opportunities to Indians and Indian organizations, and are therefore not subject to the requirements of this part.
(d)
Other HUD assistance and other Federal assistance.
Recipients that are not subject to Section 3 are encouraged to consider ways to support the purpose of Section 3.
§ 75.5
Definitions.
The terms
HUD, Public housing,
and
Public Housing Agency (PHA)
are defined in 24 CFR part 5. The following definitions also apply to this part:
1937 Act
means the United States Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437
et seq.
Contractor
means any entity entering into a contract with:
(1) A recipient to perform work in connection with the expenditure of public housing financial assistance or for work in connection with a Section 3 project; or
(2) A subrecipient for work in connection with a Section 3 project.
Labor hours
means the number of paid hours worked by persons on a Section 3 project or by persons employed with funds that include public housing financial assistance.
Low-income person
means a person as defined in Section 3(b)(2) of the 1937 Act.
Material supply contracts
means contracts for the purchase of products and materials, including, but not limited to, lumber, drywall, wiring, concrete, pipes, toilets, sinks, carpets, and office supplies.
Professional services
means non-construction services that require an advanced degree or professional licensing, including, but not limited to, contracts for legal services, financial consulting, accounting services, environmental assessment, architectural services, and civil engineering services.
Public housing financial assistance
means assistance as defined in § 75.3(a)(1).
Public housing project
is defined in 24 CFR 905.108.
Recipient
means any entity that receives directly from HUD public housing financial assistance or housing and community development assistance that funds Section 3 projects, including, but not limited to, any State, local government, instrumentality, PHA, or other public agency, public or private nonprofit organization.
Section 3
means Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701u).
Section 3 business concern
means:
(1) A business concern meeting at least one of the following criteria, documented within the last six-month period:
(i) It is at least 51 percent owned and controlled by low- or very low-income persons;
(ii) Over 75 percent of the labor hours performed for the business over the prior three-month period are performed by Section 3 workers; or
(iii) It is a business at least 51 percent owned and controlled by current public housing residents or residents who currently live in Section 8-assisted housing.
(2) The status of a Section 3 business concern shall not be negatively affected by a prior arrest or conviction of its owner(s) or employees.
(3) Nothing in this part shall be construed to require the contracting or subcontracting of a Section 3 business concern. Section 3 business concerns are not exempt from meeting the specifications of the contract.
Section 3 project
means a project defined in § 75.3(a)(2).
Section 3 worker
means:
(1) Any worker who currently fits or when hired within the past five years fit at least one of the following categories, as documented:
(i) The worker's income for the previous or annualized calendar year is below the income limit established by HUD.
(ii) The worker is employed by a Section 3 business concern.
(iii) The worker is a YouthBuild participant.
(2) The status of a Section 3 worker shall not be negatively affected by a prior arrest or conviction.
(3) Nothing in this part shall be construed to require the employment of someone who meets this definition of a Section 3 worker. Section 3 workers are not exempt from meeting the qualifications of the position to be filled.
Section 8-assisted housing
refers to housing receiving project-based rental assistance or tenant-based assistance under Section 8 of the 1937 Act.
Service area or the neighborhood of the project
means an area within one mile of the Section 3 project or, if fewer than 5,000 people live within one mile of a Section 3 project, within a circle centered on the Section 3 project that is sufficient to encompass a population of 5,000 people according to the most recent U.S. Census.
Small PHA
means a public housing authority that manages or operates fewer than 250 public housing units.
Subcontractor
means any entity that has a contract with a contractor to undertake a portion of the contractor's obligation to perform work in connection with the expenditure of public housing financial assistance or for a Section 3 project.
Subrecipient
has the meaning provided in the applicable program regulations or in 2 CFR 200.93.
Targeted Section 3 worker
has the meanings provided in §§ 75.11, 75.21, or 75.29, and does not exclude an individual that has a prior arrest or conviction.
Very low-income person
means the definition for this term set forth in section 3(b)(2) of the 1937 Act.
YouthBuild programs
refers to YouthBuild programs receiving assistance under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3226).
§ 75.7
Requirements applicable to HUD NOFAs for Section 3 covered programs.
All notices of funding availability (NOFAs) issued by HUD that announce the availability of funding covered by § 75.3 will include notice that this part is applicable to the funding and may include, as appropriate for the specific NOFA, points or bonus points for the quality of Section 3 plans.

# Subpart B—Additional Provisions for Public Housing Financial Assistance
§ 75.9
Requirements.
(a)
Employment and training.
(1) Consistent with existing Federal, state, and local laws and regulations, PHAs or other recipients receiving public housing financial assistance, and their contractors and subcontractors, must make their best efforts to provide employment and training opportunities generated by the public housing financial assistance to Section 3 workers.
(2) PHAs or other recipients, and their contractors and subcontractors, must make their best efforts described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in the following order of priority:
(i) To residents of the public housing projects for which the public housing financial assistance is expended;
(ii) To residents of other public housing projects managed by the PHA that is providing the assistance or for residents of Section 8-assisted housing managed by the PHA;
(iii) To participants in YouthBuild programs; and
(iv) To low- and very low-income persons residing within the metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) in which the assistance is expended.
(b)
Contracting.
(1) Consistent with existing Federal, state, and local laws and regulations, PHAs and other recipients of public housing financial assistance, and their contractors and subcontractors, must make their best efforts to award contracts and subcontracts to business concerns that provide economic opportunities to Section 3 workers.
(2) PHAs and other recipients, and their contractors and subcontractors, must make their best efforts described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in the following order of priority:
(i) To Section 3 business concerns that provide economic opportunities for residents of the public housing projects for which the assistance is provided;
(ii) To Section 3 business concerns that provide economic opportunities for residents of other public housing projects or Section-8 assisted housing managed by the PHA that is providing the assistance;
(iii) To YouthBuild programs; and
(iv) To Section 3 business concerns that provide economic opportunities to Section 3 workers residing within the metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) in which the assistance is provided.
§ 75.11
Targeted Section 3 worker for public housing financial assistance.
(a)
Targeted Section 3 worker.
A Targeted Section 3 worker for public housing financial assistance means a Section 3 worker who is:
(1) A worker employed by a Section 3 business concern; or
(2) A worker who currently fits or when hired fit at least one of the following categories, as documented within the past five years:
(i) A resident of public housing or Section 8-assisted housing;
(ii) A resident of other public housing projects or Section 8-assisted housing managed by the PHA that is providing the assistance; or
(iii) A YouthBuild participant.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 75.13
Section 3 safe harbor.
(a)
General.
PHAs and other recipients will be considered to have complied with requirements in this part, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, if they:
(1) Certify that they have followed the prioritization of effort in § 75.9; and
(2) Meet or exceed the applicable Section 3 benchmarks as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Establishing benchmarks.
(1) HUD will establish Section 3 benchmarks for Section 3 workers or Targeted Section 3 workers or both through a document published in the
Federal Register.
HUD may establish a single nationwide benchmark for Section 3 workers and a single nationwide benchmark for Targeted Section 3 workers, or may establish multiple benchmarks based on geography, the type of public housing financial assistance, or other variables. HUD will update the benchmarks through a document published in the
Federal Register,
subject to public comment, not less frequently than once every 3 years. Such notice shall include aggregate data on labor hours and the proportion of PHAs and other recipients meeting benchmarks, as well as other metrics reported pursuant to § 75.15 as deemed appropriate by HUD, for the 3 most recent reporting years.
(2) In establishing the Section 3 benchmarks, HUD may consider the industry averages for labor hours worked by specific categories of workers or in different localities or regions; averages for labor hours worked by Section 3 workers and Targeted Section 3 workers as reported by recipients pursuant to this section; and any other factors HUD deems important. In establishing the Section 3 benchmarks, HUD will exclude professional services from the total number of labor hours as such hours are excluded from the total number of labor hours to be reported per § 75.15(a)(4).
(3) Section 3 benchmarks will consist of the following two ratios:
(i) The number of labor hours worked by Section 3 workers divided by the total number of labor hours worked by all workers funded by public housing financial assistance in the PHA's or other recipient's fiscal year.
(ii) The number of labor hours worked by Targeted Section 3 workers, as defined in § 75.11(a), divided by the total number of labor hours worked by all workers funded by public housing financial assistance in the PHA's or other recipient's fiscal year.
§ 75.15
Reporting.
(a)
Reporting of labor hours.
(1) For public housing financial assistance, PHAs and other recipients must report in a manner prescribed by HUD:
(i) The total number of labor hours worked;
(ii) The total number of labor hours worked by Section 3 workers; and
(iii) The total number of labor hours worked by Targeted Section 3 workers.
(2) Section 3 workers' and Targeted Section 3 workers' labor hours may be counted for five years from when their status as a Section 3 worker or Targeted Section 3 worker is established pursuant to § 75.31.
(3) The labor hours reported under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include the total number of labor hours worked with public housing financial assistance in the fiscal year of the PHA or other recipient, including labor hours worked by any contractors and subcontractors that the PHA or other recipient is required, or elects pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, to report.
(4) PHAs and other recipients reporting under this section, as well as contractors and subcontractors who report to PHAs and recipients, may report labor hours by Section 3 workers, under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and labor hours by Targeted Section 3 workers, under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, from professional services without including labor hours from professional services in the total number of labor hours worked under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. If a contract covers both professional services and other work and the PHA, other recipient, contractor, or subcontractor chooses not to report labor hours from professional services, the labor hours under the contract that are not from professional services must still be reported.
(5) PHAs and other recipients may report on the labor hours of the PHA, the recipient, a contractor, or a subcontractor based on the employer's good faith assessment of the labor hours of a
full-time or part-time employee informed by the employer's existing salary or time and attendance based payroll systems, unless the project or activity is otherwise subject to requirements specifying time and attendance reporting.
(b)
Additional reporting if Section 3 benchmarks are not met.
If the PHA's or other recipient's reporting under paragraph (a) of this section indicates that the PHA or other recipient has not met the Section 3 benchmarks described in § 75.13, the PHA or other recipient must report in a form prescribed by HUD on the qualitative nature of its Section 3 compliance activities and those of its contractors and subcontractors. Such qualitative efforts may, for example, include but are not limited to the following:
(1) Engaged in outreach efforts to generate job applicants who are Targeted Section 3 workers.
(2) Provided training or apprenticeship opportunities.
(3) Provided technical assistance to help Section 3 workers compete for jobs (
e.g.,
resume assistance, coaching).
(4) Provided or connected Section 3 workers with assistance in seeking employment including: drafting resumes, preparing for interviews, and finding job opportunities connecting residents to job placement services.
(5) Held one or more job fairs.
(6) Provided or referred Section 3 workers to services supporting work readiness and retention (
e.g.,
work readiness activities, interview clothing, test fees, transportation, child care).
(7) Provided assistance to apply for/or attend community college, a four-year educational institution, or vocational/technical training.
(8) Assisted Section 3 workers to obtain financial literacy training and/or coaching.
(9) Engaged in outreach efforts to identify and secure bids from Section 3 business concerns.
(10) Provided technical assistance to help Section 3 business concerns understand and bid on contracts.
(11) Divided contracts into smaller jobs to facilitate participation by Section 3 business concerns.
(12) Provided bonding assistance, guaranties, or other efforts to support viable bids from Section 3 business concerns.
(13) Promoted use of business registries designed to create opportunities for disadvantaged and small businesses.
(14) Outreach, engagement, or referrals with the state one-stop system as defined in Section 121(e)(2) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
(c)
Reporting frequency.
Unless otherwise provided, PHAs or other recipients must report annually to HUD under paragraph (a) of this section, and, where required, under paragraph (b) of this section, in a manner consistent with reporting requirements for the applicable HUD program.
(d)
Reporting by Small PHAs.
Small PHAs may elect not to report under paragraph (a) of this section. Small PHAs that make such election are required to report on their qualitative efforts, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, in a manner consistent with reporting requirements for the applicable HUD program.
§ 75.17
Contract provisions.
(a) PHAs or other recipients must include language in any agreement or contract to apply Section 3 to contractors.
(b) PHAs or other recipients must require contractors to include language in any contract or agreement to apply Section 3 to subcontractors.
(c) PHAs or other recipients must require all contractors and subcontractors to meet the requirements of § 75.9, regardless of whether Section 3 language is included in contracts.

# Subpart C—Additional Provisions for Housing and Community Development Financial Assistance
§ 75.19
Requirements.
(a)
Employment and training.
(1) To the greatest extent feasible, and consistent with existing Federal, state, and local laws and regulations, recipients covered by this subpart shall ensure that employment and training opportunities arising in connection with
Section 3 projects are provided to Section 3 workers within the metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) in which the project is located.
(2) Where feasible, priority for opportunities and training described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section should be given to:
(i) Section 3 workers residing within the service area or the neighborhood of the project, and
(ii) Participants in YouthBuild programs.
(b)
Contracting.
(1) To the greatest extent feasible, and consistent with existing Federal, state, and local laws and regulations, recipients covered by this subpart shall ensure contracts for work awarded in connection with Section 3 projects are provided to business concerns that provide economic opportunities to Section 3 workers residing within the metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) in which the project is located.
(2) Where feasible, priority for contracting opportunities described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section should be given to:
(i) Section 3 business concerns that provide economic opportunities to Section 3 workers residing within the service area or the neighborhood of the project, and
(ii) YouthBuild programs.
§ 75.21
Targeted Section 3 worker for housing and community development financial assistance.
(a)
Targeted Section 3 worker.
A Targeted Section 3 worker for housing and community development financial assistance means a Section 3 worker who is:
(1) A worker employed by a Section 3 business concern; or
(2) A worker who currently fits or when hired fit at least one of the following categories, as documented within the past five years:
(i) Living within the service area or the neighborhood of the project, as defined in § 75.5; or
(ii) A YouthBuild participant.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 75.23
Section 3 safe harbor.
(a)
General.
Recipients will be considered to have complied with requirements in this part, in the absence of evidence to the contrary if they:
(1) Certify that they have followed the prioritization of effort in § 75.19; and
(2) Meet or exceed the applicable Section 3 benchmark as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Establishing benchmarks.
(1) HUD will establish Section 3 benchmarks for Section 3 workers or Targeted Section 3 workers or both through a document published in the
Federal Register.
HUD may establish a single nationwide benchmark for Section 3 workers and a single nationwide benchmark for Targeted Section 3 workers, or may establish multiple benchmarks based on geography, the nature of the Section 3 project, or other variables. HUD will update the benchmarks through a document published in the
Federal Register,
subject to public comment, not less frequently than once every 3 years. Such notice shall include aggregate data on labor hours and the proportion of recipients meeting benchmarks, as well as other metrics reported pursuant to § 75.25 as deemed appropriate by HUD, for the 3 most recent reporting years.
(2) In establishing the Section 3 benchmarks, HUD may consider the industry averages for labor hours worked by specific categories of workers or in different localities or regions; averages for labor hours worked by Section 3 workers and Targeted Section 3 workers as reported by recipients pursuant to this section; and any other factors HUD deems important. In establishing the Section 3 benchmarks, HUD will exclude professional services from the total number of labor hours as such hours are excluded from the total number of labor hours to be reported per § 75.25(a)(4).
(3) Section 3 benchmarks will consist of the following two ratios:
(i) The number of labor hours worked by Section 3 workers divided by the total number of labor hours worked by all workers on a Section 3 project in the recipient's program year.
(ii) The number of labor hours worked by Targeted Section 3 workers as defined in § 75.21(a), divided by the total number of labor hours worked by
all workers on a Section 3 project in the recipient's program year.
§ 75.25
Reporting.
(a)
Reporting of labor hours.
(1) For Section 3 projects, recipients must report in a manner prescribed by HUD:
(i) The total number of labor hours worked;
(ii) The total number of labor hours worked by Section 3 workers; and
(iii) The total number of labor hours worked by Targeted Section 3 workers.
(2) Section 3 workers' and Targeted Section 3 workers' labor hours may be counted for five years from when their status as a Section 3 worker or Targeted Section 3 worker is established pursuant to § 75.31.
(3) The labor hours reported under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include the total number of labor hours worked on a Section 3 project, including labor hours worked by any subrecipients, contractors and subcontractors that the recipient is required, or elects pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, to report.
(4) Recipients reporting under this section, as well as subrecipients, contractors and subcontractors who report to recipients, may report labor hours by Section 3 workers, under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and labor hours by Targeted Section 3 workers, under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, from professional services without including labor hours from professional services in the total number of labor hours worked under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. If a contract covers both professional services and other work and the recipient or contractor or subcontractor chooses not to report labor hours from professional services, the labor hours under the contract that are not from professional services must still be reported.
(5) Recipients may report their own labor hours or that of a subrecipient, contractor, or subcontractor based on the employer's good faith assessment of the labor hours of a full-time or part-time employee informed by the employer's existing salary or time and attendance based payroll systems, unless the project or activity is otherwise subject to requirements specifying time and attendance reporting.
(b)
Additional reporting if Section 3 benchmarks are not met.
If the recipient's reporting under paragraph (a) of this section indicates that the recipient has not met the Section 3 benchmarks described in § 75.23, the recipient must report in a form prescribed by HUD on the qualitative nature of its activities and those its contractors and subcontractors pursued. Such qualitative efforts may, for example, include but are not limited to the following:
(1) Engaged in outreach efforts to generate job applicants who are Targeted Section 3 workers.
(2) Provided training or apprenticeship opportunities.
(3) Provided technical assistance to help Section 3 workers compete for jobs (
e.g.,
resume assistance, coaching).
(4) Provided or connected Section 3 workers with assistance in seeking employment including: drafting resumes, preparing for interviews, and finding job opportunities connecting residents to job placement services.
(5) Held one or more job fairs.
(6) Provided or referred Section 3 workers to services supporting work readiness and retention (
e.g.,
work readiness activities, interview clothing, test fees, transportation, child care).
(7) Provided assistance to apply for/or attend community college, a four-year educational institution, or vocational/technical training.
(8) Assisted Section 3 workers to obtain financial literacy training and/or coaching.
(9) Engaged in outreach efforts to identify and secure bids from Section 3 business concerns.
(10) Provided technical assistance to help Section 3 business concerns understand and bid on contracts.
(11) Divided contracts into smaller jobs to facilitate participation by Section 3 business concerns.
(12) Provided bonding assistance, guaranties, or other efforts to support viable bids from Section 3 business concerns.
(13) Promoted use of business registries designed to create opportunities for disadvantaged and small businesses.
(14) Outreach, engagement, or referrals with the state one-stop system as
defined in Section 121(e)(2) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.
(c)
Reporting frequency.
Unless otherwise provided, recipients must report annually to HUD under paragraph (a) of this section, and, where required, under paragraph (b) of this section, on all projects completed within the reporting year in a manner consistent with reporting requirements for the applicable HUD program.
§ 75.27
Contract provisions.
(a) Recipients must include language applying Section 3 requirements in any subrecipient agreement or contract for a Section 3 project.
(b) Recipients of Section 3 funding must require subrecipients, contractors, and subcontractors to meet the requirements of § 75.19, regardless of whether Section 3 language is included in recipient or subrecipient agreements, program regulatory agreements, or contracts.

# Subpart D—Provisions for Multiple Funding Sources, Recordkeeping, and Compliance
§ 75.29
Multiple funding sources.
(a) If a housing rehabilitation, housing construction or other public construction project is subject to Section 3 pursuant to § 75.3(a)(1) and (2), the recipient must follow subpart B of this part for the public housing financial assistance and may follow either subpart B or C of this part for the housing and community development financial assistance. For such a project, the following applies:
(1) For housing and community development financial assistance, a Targeted Section 3 worker is any worker who meets the definition of a Targeted Section 3 worker in either subpart B or C of this part; and
(2) The recipients of both sources of funding shall report on the housing rehabilitation, housing construction, or other public construction project as a whole and shall identify the multiple associated recipients. PHAs and other recipients must report the following information:
(i) The total number of labor hours worked on the project;
(ii) The total number of labor hours worked by Section 3 workers on the project; and
(iii) The total number of labor hours worked by Targeted Section 3 workers on the project.
(b) If a housing rehabilitation, housing construction, or other public construction project is subject to Section 3 because the project is assisted with funding from multiple sources of housing and community development assistance that exceed the thresholds in § 75.3(a)(2), the recipient or recipients must follow subpart C of this part, and must report to the applicable HUD program office, as prescribed by HUD.
§ 75.31
Recordkeeping.
(a) HUD shall have access to all records, reports, and other documents or items of the recipient that are maintained to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this part, or that are maintained in accordance with the regulations governing the specific HUD program by which the Section 3 project is governed, or the public housing financial assistance is provided or otherwise made available to the recipient, subrecipient, contractor, or subcontractor.
(b) Recipients must maintain documentation, or ensure that a subrecipient, contractor, or subcontractor that employs the worker maintains documentation, to ensure that workers meet the definition of a Section 3 worker or Targeted Section 3 worker, at the time of hire or the first reporting period, as follows:
(1) For a worker to qualify as a Section 3 worker, one of the following must be maintained:
(i) A worker's self-certification that their income is below the income limit from the prior calendar year;
(ii) A worker's self-certification of participation in a means-tested program such as public housing or Section 8-assisted housing;
(iii) Certification from a PHA, or the owner or property manager of project-based Section 8-assisted housing, or the administrator of tenant-based Section 8-assisted housing that the worker is a participant in one of their programs;
(iv) An employer's certification that the worker's income from that employer is below the income limit when based on an employer's calculation of what the worker's wage rate would translate to if annualized on a full-time basis; or
(v) An employer's certification that the worker is employed by a Section 3 business concern.
(2) For a worker to qualify as a Targeted Section 3 worker, one of the following must be maintained:
(i) For a worker to qualify as a Targeted Section 3 worker under subpart B of this part:
(A) A worker's self-certification of participation in public housing or Section 8-assisted housing programs;
(B) Certification from a PHA, or the owner or property manager of project-based Section 8-assisted housing, or the administrator of tenant-based Section 8-assisted housing that the worker is a participant in one of their programs;
(C) An employer's certification that the worker is employed by a Section 3 business concern; or
(D) A worker's certification that the worker is a YouthBuild participant.
(ii) For a worker to qualify as a Targeted Section 3 worker under subpart C of this part:
(A) An employer's confirmation that a worker's residence is within one mile of the work site or, if fewer than 5,000 people live within one mile of a work site, within a circle centered on the work site that is sufficient to encompass a population of 5,000 people according to the most recent U.S. Census;
(B) An employer's certification that the worker is employed by a Section 3 business concern; or
(C) A worker's self-certification that the worker is a YouthBuild participant.
(c) The documentation described in paragraph (b) of this section must be maintained for the time period required for record retentions in accordance with applicable program regulations or, in the absence of applicable program regulations, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200.
(d) A PHA or recipient may report on Section 3 workers and Targeted Section 3 workers for five years from when their certification as a Section 3 worker or Targeted Section 3 worker is established.
§ 75.33
Compliance.
(a)
Records of compliance.
Each recipient shall maintain adequate records demonstrating compliance with this part, consistent with other recordkeeping requirements in 2 CFR part 200.
(b)
Complaints.
Complaints alleging failure of compliance with this part may be reported to the HUD program office responsible for the public housing financial assistance or the Section 3 project, or to the local HUD field office.
(c)
Monitoring.
HUD will monitor compliance with the requirements of this part. The applicable HUD program office will determine appropriate methods by which to oversee Section 3 compliance. HUD may impose appropriate remedies and sanctions in accordance with the laws and regulations for the program under which the violation was found.
Pt. 81

# PART 81—THE SECRETARY OF HUD'S REGULATION OF THE FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) AND THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION (FREDDIE MAC)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
81.1
Scope of part.
81.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Housing Goals
81.11
General.
81.12
Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal.
81.13
Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal.
81.14
Special Affordable Housing Goal.
81.15
General requirements.
81.16
Special counting requirements.
81.17
Affordability—Income level definitions—family size and income known (owner-occupied units, actual tenants, and prospective tenants).
81.18
Affordability—Income level definitions—family size not known (actual or prospective tenants).
81.19
Affordability—Rent level definitions—tenant income is not known.
81.20
Actions to be taken to meet the goals.
81.21
Notice and determination of failure to meet goals.
81.22
Housing plans.

# Subpart C—Fair Housing
81.41
General.
81.42
Prohibitions against discrimination.
81.43
Reports; underwriting and appraisal guideline review.
81.44
Submission of information to the Secretary.
81.45
Obtaining and disseminating information.
81.46
Remedial actions.
81.47
Violations of provisions by the GSEs.

# Subpart D—New Program Approval
81.51
General.
81.52
Requirement for program requests.
81.53
Processing of program requests.
81.54
Review of disapproval.

# Subpart E—Reporting Requirements
81.61
General.
81.62
Mortgage reports.
81.63
Annual Housing Activities Report.
81.64
Periodic reports.
81.65
Other information and analyses.
81.66
Submission of reports.

# Subpart F—Access to Information
81.71
General.
81.72
Public-use database and public information.
81.73
GSE request for proprietary treatment.
81.74
Secretarial determination on GSE request.
81.75
Proprietary information withheld by order or regulation.
81.76
FOIA requests and protection of GSE information.
81.77
Requests for GSE information on behalf of Congress, the Comptroller General, a subpoena, or other legal process.

# Subpart G—Procedures for Actions and Review of Actions
81.81
General.
81.82
Cease-and-desist proceedings.
81.83
Civil money penalties.
81.84
Hearings.
81.85
Public disclosure of final orders and agreements.
81.86
Enforcement and jurisdiction.
81.87
Judicial review.

# Subpart H—Book-Entry Procedures
81.91
Maintenance of GSE Securities.
81.92
Law governing rights and obligations of United States, Federal Reserve Banks, and GSEs; rights of any Person against United States, Federal Reserve Banks, and GSEs; Law governing other interests.
81.93
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.
81.94
Obligations of GSEs; no adverse claims.
81.95
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.
81.96
Withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry GSE Securities for conversion to definitive form.
81.97
Waiver of regulations.
81.98
Liability of GSEs and Federal Reserve Banks.
81.99
Additional provisions.

# Subpart I—Other Provisions
81.101
Equal employment opportunity.
81.102
Verification and enforcement to ensure GSE data integrity.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.,
1716-1723h, and 4501-4641; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 3601-3619.

# Source:
60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 81.1
Scope of part.
(a)
Authority.
The Secretary has general regulatory power respecting the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) (referred to collectively as Government-sponsored enterprises (“GSEs”)) and is required to make such rules and regulations as are necessary and proper to ensure that the provisions of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (“FHEFSSA”), codified generally at 12 U.S.C. 4501-4641; the Fannie Mae Charter Act, 12 U.S.C. 1716-1723h; and the Freddie Mac Act, 12 U.S.C. 1451-59, are accomplished.
(b)
Relation between this part and the authorities of OFHEO.
The Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (“OFHEO”) will issue separate regulations implementing the Director's authority respecting the GSEs. In this part, OFHEO and the Director are only referenced when the Director's responsibilities are connected with the Secretary's responsibilities.
§ 81.2
Definitions.
(a)
Statutory terms.
All terms defined in FHEFSSA (12 U.S.C. 4502) are used
in accordance with their statutory meaning unless otherwise defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Other terms.
As used in this part, the term—
AHAR
means the Annual Housing Activities Report that a GSE submits to the Secretary under sections 309(n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act or 307(f) of the Freddie Mac Act.
AHAR information
means data or information contained in the AHAR.
AHS
means the American Housing Survey published by HUD and the Department of Commerce.
Balloon mortgage
means a mortgage providing for payments at regular intervals, with a final payment (“balloon payment”) that is at least 5 percent more than the periodic payments. The periodic payments may cover some or all of the periodic principal or interest. Typically, the periodic payments are level monthly payments that would fully amortize the mortgage over a stated term and the balloon payment is a single payment due after a specified period (but before the mortgage would fully amortize) and pays off or satisfies the outstanding balance of the mortgage.
Book-entry GSE Security
means a GSE Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System. Book-entry GSE Security also means the separate interest and principal components of a Book-entry GSE Security if such security has been designated by the GSE as eligible for division into such components and the components are maintained separately on the books of one or more Federal Reserve Banks.
Book-entry System
means the automated book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks acting as the fiscal agent for the GSEs, on which Book-entry GSE Securities are issued, recorded, transferred and maintained in book-entry form.
Central city
means the underserved areas located in any political subdivision designated as a central city by the Office of Management and Budget of the Executive Office of the President.
Charter Act
means the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1716
et seq.
) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
).
Contract rent
means the total rent that is, or is anticipated to be, specified in the rental contract as payable by the tenant to the owner for rental of a dwelling unit, including fees or charges for management and maintenance services and those utility charges that are included in the rental contract. In determining contract rent, rent concessions shall not be considered,
i.e.,
contract rent is not decreased by any rent concessions. Contract rent is rent net of rental subsidies.
Conventional mortgage
means a mortgage other than a mortgage as to which a GSE has the benefit of any guaranty, insurance or other obligation by the United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities.
Day
means a calendar day.
Definitive GSE Security
means a GSE Security in engraved or printed form, or that is otherwise represented by a certificate.
Director
means the Director of OFHEO.
Dwelling unit
means a room or unified combination of rooms intended for use, in whole or in part, as a dwelling by one or more persons, and includes a dwelling unit in a single-family property, multifamily property, or other residential or mixed-use property.
ECOA
means the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
).
Eligible Book-entry GSE Security
means a Book-entry GSE Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System which by the terms of its Security Documentation is eligible to be converted from book-entry form into definitive form.
Entitlement Holder
means a Person or a GSE to whose account an interest in a Book-entry GSE Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
Familial status
has the same definition as is set forth at 24 CFR 100.20.
Family
means one or more individuals who occupy the same dwelling unit.
Fannie Mae
means the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof.
Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular
means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains
book-entry Securities accounts (including Book-entry GSE Securities) and transfers book-entry Securities (including Book-entry GSE Securities).
FHEFSSA
means the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, codified generally at 12 U.S.C. 4501-4651.
FOIA
means the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
Freddie Mac
means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof.
Freddie Mac Act
means the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1451
et seq.
).
Government-sponsored enterprise
or
GSE
means Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.
GSE Security
means any security or obligation of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac issued under its respective Charter Act in the form of a Definitive GSE Security or a Book-entry GSE Security.
Handicap
has the same definition as is set forth at 24 CFR 100.201.
HOEPA mortgage
” means a mortgage for which the annual percentage rate (as calculated in accordance with the relevant provisions of section 107 of the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act (HOEPA) (15 U.S.C. 1606)) exceeds the threshold described in section 103(aa)(1)(A) of HOEPA (15 U.S.C. 1602(aa)(1)(A)), or for which the total points and fees payable by the borrower exceed the threshold described in section 103(aa)(1)(B) of HOEPA (15 U.S.C. 1602(aa)(1)(B)), as those thresholds may be increased or decreased by the Federal Reserve Board or by Congress, unless the GSEs are otherwise notified in writing by HUD. Notwithstanding the exclusions in section 103(aa)(1) of HOEPA, for purposes of this part, the term “
HOEPA mortgage
” includes all types of mortgages as defined in this section, including residential mortgage transactions as that term is defined in section 103(w) of HOEPA (15 U.S.C. 1602(w)), but does not include reverse mortgages.
Home Purchase Mortgage
means a residential mortgage for the purchase of an owner-occupied single-family property.
HUD
means the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Lender
means any entity that makes, originates, sells, or services mortgages, and includes the secured creditors named in the debt obligation and document creating the mortgage.
Low-income area
means a census tract or block numbering area in which the median income does not exceed 80 percent of the area median income.
Median income
means, with respect to an area, the unadjusted median family income for the area as most recently determined and published by HUD. HUD will provide the GSEs annually with information specifying how HUD's published median family income estimates for metropolitan areas are to be applied for the purposes of determining median family income.
Metropolitan area
means a metropolitan statistical area (“MSA”), or a portion of such an area for which median family income estimates are published annually by HUD.
Minority
means any individual who is included within any one or more of the following racial and ethnic categories:
(1) American Indian or Alaskan Native—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment;
(2) Asian—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent, including, for example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam;
(3) Black or African American—a person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa;
(4) Hispanic or Latino—a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race; and
(5) Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander—a person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.
Mortgage
means a member of such classes of liens, including subordinate liens, as are commonly given or are legally effective to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the State in which the real estate is located, or a
manufactured home that is personal property under the laws of the State in which the manufactured home is located, together with the credit instruments, if any, secured thereby, and includes interests in mortgages. “Mortgage” includes a mortgage, lien, including a subordinate lien, or other security interest on the stock or membership certificate issued to a tenant-stockholder or resident-member by a cooperative housing corporation, as defined in section 216 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and on the proprietary lease, occupancy agreement, or right of tenancy in the dwelling unit of the tenant-stockholder or resident-member in such cooperative housing corporation.
Mortgage data
means data obtained by the Secretary from the GSEs under subsection 309(m) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and subsection 307(e) of the Freddie Mac Act.
Mortgage purchase
means a transaction in which a GSE bought or otherwise acquired with cash or other thing of value, a mortgage for its portfolio or for securitization.
Mortgages contrary to good lending practices
means a mortgage or a group or category of mortgages entered into by a lender and purchased by a GSE where it can be shown that a lender engaged in a practice of failing to:
(1) Report monthly on borrowers' repayment history to credit repositories on the status of each GSE loan that a lender is servicing;
(2) Offer mortgage applicants products for which they qualify, but rather steer applicants to high cost products that are designed for less credit worthy borrowers. Similarly, for consumers who seek financing through a lender's higher-priced subprime lending channel, lenders should not fail to offer or direct such consumers toward the lender's standard mortgage line if they are able to qualify for one of the standard products;
(3) Comply with fair lending requirements; or
(4) Engage in other good lending practices that are:
(i) Identified in writing by a GSE as good lending practices for inclusion in this definition; and
(ii) Determined by the Secretary to constitute good lending practices.
Mortgages with unacceptable terms or conditions or resulting from unacceptable practices
means a mortgage or a group or category of mortgages with one or more of the following terms or conditions:
(1) Excessive fees, where the total points and fees charged to a borrower exceed the greater of 5 percent of the loan amount or a maximum dollar amount of $1000, or an alternative amount requested by a GSE and determined by the Secretary as appropriate for small mortgages.
(i) For purposes of this definition, points and fees include:
(A) Origination fees;
(B) Underwriting fees;
(C) Broker fees;
(D) Finder's fees; and
(E) Charges that the lender imposes as a condition of making the loan, whether they are paid to the lender or a third party.
(ii) For purposes of this definition, points and fees do not include:
(A) Bona fide discount points;
(B) Fees paid for actual services rendered in connection with the origination of the mortgage, such as attorneys' fees, notary's fees, and fees paid for property appraisals, credit reports, surveys, title examinations and extracts, flood and tax certifications, and home inspections;
(C) The cost of mortgage insurance or credit-risk price adjustments;
(D) The costs of title, hazard, and flood insurance policies;
(E) State and local transfer taxes or fees;
(F) Escrow deposits for the future payment of taxes and insurance premiums; and
(G) Other miscellaneous fees and charges that, in total, do not exceed 0.25 percent of the loan amount.
(2) Prepayment penalties, except where:
(i) The mortgage provides some benefits to the borrower (
e.g.,
such as rate or fee reduction for accepting the prepayment premium);
(ii) The borrower is offered the choice of another mortgage that does not contain payment of such a premium;
(iii) The terms of the mortgage provision containing the prepayment penalty are adequately disclosed to the borrower; and
(iv) The prepayment penalty is not charged when the mortgage debit is accelerated as the result of the borrower's default in making his or her mortgage payments.
(3) The sale or financing of prepaid single-premium credit life insurance products in connection with the origination of the mortgage;
(4) Evidence that the lender did not adequately consider the borrower's ability to make payments,
i.e.,
mortgages that are originated with underwriting techniques that focus on the borrower's equity in the home, and do not give full consideration of the borrower's income and other obligations. Ability to repay must be determined and must be based upon relating the borrower's income, assets, and liabilities to the mortgage payments; or
(5) Other terms or conditions that are:
(i) Identified in writing by a GSE as unacceptable terms or conditions or resulting from unacceptable practices for inclusion in this
definition;
and
(ii) Determined by the Secretary as an unacceptable term or condition of a mortgage for which goals credit should not be received.
Multifamily housing
means a residence consisting of more than 4 dwelling units. The term includes cooperative buildings and condominium projects.
New England
means Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont.
OFHEO
means the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight.
Ongoing program
means a program that is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
Other underserved area
means any underserved area that is in a metropolitan area, but not in a central city.
Owner-occupied unit
means a dwelling unit in single-family housing in which a mortgagor of the unit resides.
Participant
means a Person or GSE that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
Participation
means a fractional interest in the principal amount of a mortgage.
Person,
as used in subpart H, means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include the United States, a GSE, or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Portfolio of loans
means 10 or more loans.
Proprietary information
means all mortgage data and all AHAR information that the GSEs submit to the Secretary in the AHARs that contain trade secrets or privileged or confidential, commercial, or financial information that, if released, would be likely to cause substantial competitive harm.
Public data
means all mortgage data and all AHAR information that the GSEs submit to the Secretary in the AHARs, that the Secretary determines are not proprietary and may appropriately be disclosed consistent with other applicable laws and regulations.
Real estate mortgage investment conduit (REMIC)
means multi-class mortgage securities issued by a tax-exempt entity.
Refinancing
means a transaction in which an existing mortgage is satisfied or replaced by a new mortgage undertaken by the same borrower. The term does not include:
(1) A renewal of a single payment obligation with no change in the original terms;
(2) A reduction in the annual percentage rate of the mortgage as computed under the Truth in Lending Act, with a corresponding change in the payment schedule;
(3) An agreement involving a court proceeding;
(4) A workout agreement, in which a change in the payment schedule or collateral requirements is agreed to as a result of the mortgagor's default or delinquency, unless the rate is increased or the new amount financed exceeds the unpaid balance plus earned finance charges and premiums for the continuation of insurance;
(5) The renewal of optional insurance purchased by the mortgagor and added to an existing mortgage; and
(6) A renegotiated balloon mortgage on a multifamily property where the balloon payment was due within 1 year after the date of the closing of the renegotiated mortgage.
(7) A conversion of a balloon mortgage note on a single family property to a fully amortizing mortgage note where the GSE already owns or has an interest in the balloon note at the time of the conversion
Rent
means, for a dwelling unit:
(1) When the contract rent includes all utilities, the contract rent; or
(2) When the contract rent does not include all utilities, the contract rent plus:
(i) The actual cost of utilities not included in the contract rent; or
(ii) A utility allowance.
Rental housing
means dwelling units in multifamily housing and dwelling units that are not owner occupied in single-family housing.
Rental unit
means a dwelling unit that is not owner-occupied and is rented or available to rent.
Residence
means a property where one or more families reside.
Residential mortgage
means a mortgage on single-family or multifamily housing.
Revised Article 8
has the same meaning as in 31 CFR 357.2.
Rural area
means any underserved area located outside of any metropolitan area.
Seasoned mortgage
means a mortgage on which the date of the mortgage note is more than 1 year before the GSE purchased the mortgage.
Second mortgage
means any mortgage that has a lien position subordinate only to the lien of the first mortgage.
Secondary residence
means a dwelling where the mortgagor maintains (or will maintain) a part-time place of abode and typically spends (or will spend) less than the majority of the calendar year. A person may have more than one secondary residence at a time.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and, where appropriate, any person designated by the Secretary to perform a particular function for the Secretary, including any HUD officer, employee, or agent.
Security
means any mortgage participation certificate, note, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, collateral-trust certificate, transferable share, certificate of deposit for a security, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a “security.”
Securities Documentation
means the applicable statement of terms, trust indenture, securities agreement or other documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry GSE Security.
Single-family housing
means a residence consisting of one to four dwelling units. Single-family housing includes condominium dwelling units and dwelling units in cooperative housing projects.
Transfer message
means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Security (including a Book-entry GSE Security) maintained in the Book-entry System, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
Underserved area
means:
(1) For purposes of the definitions of “Central city” and “Other underserved area,” a census tract, a Federal or State American Indian reservation or tribal or individual trust land, or the balance of a census tract excluding the area within any Federal or State American Indian reservation or tribal or individual trust land, having:
(i) A median income at or below 120 percent of the median income of the metropolitan area and a minority population of 30 percent or greater; or
(ii) A median income at or below 90 percent of median income of the metropolitan area.
(2) For purposes of the definition of “Rural area,” a whole census tract, a Federal or State American Indian reservation or tribal or individual trust land, or the balance of a census tract excluding the area within any Federal or State American Indian reservation or tribal or individual trust land, having:
(i) A median income at or below 120 percent of the greater of the State non-metropolitan median income or the nationwide non-metropolitan median income and a minority population of 30 percent or greater; or
(ii) A median income at or below 95 percent of the greater of the State non-metropolitan median income or nationwide non-metropolitan median income.
(3) Any Federal or State American Indian reservation or tribal or individual trust land that includes land that is both within and outside of a metropolitan area and that is designated as an underserved area by HUD. In such cases, HUD will notify the GSEs as to applicability of other definitions and counting conventions.
Utilities
means charges for electricity, piped or bottled gas, water, sewage disposal, fuel (oil, coal, kerosene, wood, solar energy, or other), and garbage and trash collection. Utilities do not include charges for telephone service.
Utility allowance
means either:
(1) The amount to be added to contract rent when utilities are not included in contract rent (also referred to as the “AHS-derived utility allowance”), as issued annually by the Secretary; or
(2) The utility allowance established under the HUD Section 8 Program (42 U.S.C. 1437f) for the area where the property is located.
Very-low-income
has the same definition as “very low-income” has in FHEFSSA.
Wholesale exchange
means a transaction in which a GSE buys or otherwise acquires mortgages held in portfolio or securitized by the other GSE, or where both GSEs swap such mortgages.
Working day
means a day when HUD is officially open for business.
(c)
Subpart H terms.
Unless the context requires otherwise, terms used in subpart H of this part that are not defined in this part, have the meanings as set forth in 31 CFR 357.2. Definitions and terms used in 31 CFR part 357 should read as though modified to effectuate their application to the GSEs.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 63947, Dec. 2, 1996; 62 FR 28977, May 29, 1997; 65 FR 65084, Oct. 31, 2000; 69 FR 63638, Nov. 2, 2004]

# Subpart B—Housing Goals
§ 81.11
General.
This subpart establishes: three housing goals, as required by FHEFSSA; requirements for measuring performance under the goals; and procedures for monitoring and enforcing the goals.
§ 81.12
Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal.
(a)
Purpose of goal.
This annual goal for the purchase by each GSE of mortgages on housing for low- and moderate-income families (“the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal”) is intended to achieve increased purchases by the GSEs of such mortgages.
(b)
Factors.
In establishing the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goals, the Secretary considered the factors in 12 U.S.C. 4562(b). A statement documenting HUD's considerations and findings with respect to these factors, entitled “Departmental Considerations to Establish the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal,” was published in the
Federal Register
on November 2, 2004.
(c)
Goals.
The annual goals for each GSE's purchases of mortgages on housing for low- and moderate-income families are:
(1) For the year 2005, 52 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 45 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal in the year 2005 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(2) For the year 2006, 53 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 46 percent of the total number of home purchase
mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal in the year 2006 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(3) For the year 2007, 55 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 47 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal in the year 2007 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(4) For the year 2008, 56 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 47 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal in the year 2008 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA; and
(5) For the year 2009 and thereafter HUD shall establish annual goals. Pending establishment of goals for the year 2009 and thereafter, the annual goal for each of those years shall be 56 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases in each of those years. In addition, as a Low and Moderate Income Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 47 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal in each of those years unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65085, Oct. 31, 2000; 69 FR 63639, Nov. 2, 2004]
§ 81.13
Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal.
(a)
Purpose of the goal.
This annual goal for the purchase by each GSE of mortgages on housing located in central cities, rural areas, and other underserved areas is intended to achieve increased purchases by the GSEs of mortgages financing housing in areas that are underserved in terms of mortgage credit.
(b)
Factors.
In establishing the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Goals, the Secretary considered the factors in 12 U.S.C. 4564(b). A statement documenting HUD's considerations and findings with respect to these factors, entitled “Departmental Considerations to Establish the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal,” was published in the
Federal Register
on November 2, 2004.
(c)
Goals.
The annual goals for each GSE's purchases of mortgages on housing located in central cities, rural areas, and other underserved areas are:
(1) For the year 2005, 37 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 32 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in the year 2005 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(2) For the year 2006, 38 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 33 percent of the total
number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in the year 2006 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(3) For the year 2007, 38 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 33 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in the year 2007 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(4) For the year 2008, 39 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 34 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in the year 2008 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA; and
(5) For the year 2009 and thereafter HUD shall establish annual goals. Pending establishment of goals for the year 2009 and thereafter, the annual goal for each of those years shall be 39 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases in each of those years. In addition, as a Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Home Purchase Subgoal, 34 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by that GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Central Cities, Rural Areas, and Other Underserved Areas Housing Goal in each of those years unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA.
(d)
Measuring performance.
The GSEs shall determine on a mortgage-by-mortgage basis, through geocoding or any similarly accurate and reliable method, whether a mortgage finances one or more dwelling units located in a central city, rural area, or other underserved area.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65086, Oct. 31, 2000; 69 FR 63639, Nov. 2, 2004]
§ 81.14
Special Affordable Housing Goal.
(a)
Purpose of the goal.
This goal is intended to achieve increased purchases by the GSEs of mortgages on rental and owner-occupied housing meeting the then-existing unaddressed needs of, and affordable to, low-income families in low-income areas and very-low-income families.
(b)
Factors.
In establishing the Special Affordable Housing Goals, the Secretary considered the factors in 12 U.S.C. 4563(a)(2). A statement documenting HUD's considerations and findings with respect to these factors, entitled “Departmental Considerations to Establish the Special Affordable Housing Goal,” was published in the
Federal Register
on November 2, 2004.
(c)
Goals.
The annual goals for each GSE's purchases of mortgages on rental and owner-occupied housing meeting the then-existing, unaddressed needs of and affordable to low-income families in low-income areas and very low-income families are:
(1) For the year 2005, 22 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. The goal for the year 2005 shall include mortgage purchases financing dwelling units in multifamily housing totaling not less than 1.0 percent of the average annual dollar volume of combined (single-family and multifamily) mortgages purchased by the respective GSE in 2000,
2001, and 2002, unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Special Affordable Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 17 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Special Affordable Housing Goal in the year 2005 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(2) For the year 2006, 23 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. The goal for the year 2006 shall include mortgage purchases financing dwelling units in multifamily housing totaling not less than 1.0 percent of the average annual dollar volume of combined (single-family and multifamily) mortgages purchased by the respective GSE in 2000, 2001, and 2002, unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Special Affordable Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 17 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Special Affordable Housing Goal in the year 2006 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(3) For the year 2007, 25 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. The goal for the year 2007 shall include mortgage purchases financing dwelling units in multifamily housing totaling not less than 1.0 percent of the average annual dollar volume of combined (single-family and multifamily) mortgages purchased by the respective GSE in 2000, 2001, and 2002, unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Special Affordable Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 18 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Special Affordable Housing Goal in the year 2007 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA;
(4) For the year 2008, 27 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. The goal for the year 2008 shall include mortgage purchases financing dwelling units in multifamily housing totaling not less than 1.0 percent of the average annual dollar volume of combined (single-family and multifamily) mortgages purchased by the respective GSE in 2000, 2001, and 2002, unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA. In addition, as a Special Affordable Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 18 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Special Affordable Housing Goal in the year 2008 unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA; and
(5) For the year 2009 and thereafter HUD shall establish annual goals. Pending establishment of goals for the year 2009 and thereafter, the annual goal for each of those years shall be 27 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases in each of those years. The goal for each such year shall include mortgage purchases financing dwelling units in multifamily housing totaling not less than 1.0 percent of the annual average dollar volume of combined (single-family and multifamily) mortgages purchased by the respective GSE in the years 2000, 2001, and 2002. In addition, as a Special Affordable Housing Home Purchase Subgoal, 18 percent of the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases shall be home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas which count toward the Special Affordable Housing Goal in each of those years unless otherwise adjusted by HUD in accordance with FHEFSSA.
(d)
Counting of multifamily units.
(1) Dwelling units affordable to low-income families and financed by a particular purchase of a mortgage on multifamily housing shall count toward achievement of the Special Affordable Housing Goal where at least:
(i) 20 percent of the dwelling units in the particular multifamily property are affordable to especially low-income families; or
(ii) 40 percent of the dwelling units in the particular multifamily property are affordable to very-low-income families.
(2) Where only some of the units financed by a purchase of a mortgage on multifamily housing count under the multifamily component of the goal, only a portion of the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage attributable to such units shall count toward the multifamily component. The portion of the mortgage counted under the multifamily requirement shall be equal to the ratio of the total units that count to the total number of units in the mortgaged property.
(e)
Full Credit Activities.
(1) For purposes of 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1) and this paragraph (e), full credit means that each unit financed by a mortgage purchased by a GSE and meeting the requirements of this section shall count toward achievement of the Special Affordable Housing Goal for that GSE.
(2) Mortgages insured under HUD's Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (“HECM”) Insurance Program, 12 U.S.C. 1715 z-20; mortgages guaranteed under the Rural Housing Service's Single Family Housing Guaranteed Loan Program, 42 U.S.C. 1472; mortgages on properties on tribal lands insured under FHA's Section 248 program, 12 U.S.C. 1715 z-13, HUD's Section 184 program, 12 U.S.C. 1515 z-13a, or Title VI of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, 25 U.S.C. 4191-4195; meet the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(A)(i) and (ii).
(3) HUD will give full credit toward achievement of the Special Affordable Housing Goal for the activities in 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(A), provided the GSE submits documentation to HUD that supports eligibility under 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(A) for HUD's approval.
(4)(i) For purposes of determining whether a seller meets the requirement in 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(B), a seller must currently operate on its own or actively participate in an on-going, discernible, active, and verifiable program directly targeted at the origination of new mortgage loans that qualify under the Special Affordable Housing Goal.
(ii) A seller's activities must evidence a current intention or plan to reinvest the proceeds of the sale into mortgages qualifying under the Special Affordable Housing Goal, with a current commitment of resources on the part of the seller for this purpose.
(iii) A seller's actions must evidence willingness to buy qualifying loans when these loans become available in the market as part of active, on-going, sustainable efforts to ensure that additional loans that meet the goal are originated.
(iv) Actively participating in such a program includes purchasing qualifying loans from a correspondent originator, including a lender or qualified housing group, that operates an on-going program resulting in the origination of loans that meet the requirements of the goal, has a history of delivering, and currently delivers qualifying loans to the seller.
(v) The GSE must verify and monitor that the seller meets the requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (e)(4)(iv) of this section and develop any necessary mechanisms to ensure compliance with the requirements, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(vi) and (vii) of this section.
(vi) Where a seller's primary business is originating mortgages on housing that qualifies under this Special Affordable Housing Goal such seller is presumed to meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (e)(4)(iv) of this section. Sellers that are institutions that are:
(A) Regularly in the business of mortgage lending;
(B) A BIF-insured or SAIF-insured depository institution; and
(C) Subject to, and has received at least a satisfactory performance evaluation rating for
(
1
) At least the two most recent consecutive examinations under, the Community Reinvestment Act, if the lending institution has total assets in excess of $250 million; or
(
2
) The most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act if the lending institutions which have total assets no more than $250 million are identified as sellers that are presumed to have a primary business of originating mortgages on housing that qualifies under this Special Affordable Housing Goal and, therefore, are presumed to meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (e)(4)(iv) of this section.
(vii) Classes of institutions or organizations that are presumed have as their primary business originating mortgages on housing that qualifies under this Special Affordable Housing Goal and, therefore. are presumed in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (e)(4)(iv) of this section to meet the requirements are as follows: State housing finance agencies; affordable housing loan consortia; Federally insured credit unions that are:
(A) Members of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and meet the first-time homebuyer standard of the Community Support Program; or
(B) Community development credit unions; community development financial institutions; public loan funds; or non-profit mortgage lenders. HUD may determine that additional classes of institutions or organizations are primarily engaged in the business of financing affordable housing mortgages for purposes of this presumption, and if, so will notify the GSEs in writing.
(viii) For purposes of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, if the seller did not originate the mortgage loans, but the originator of the mortgage loans fulfills the requirements of either paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (e)(4)(iv), paragraph (e)(4)(vi) or paragraph (e)(4)(vii) of this section; and the seller has held the loans for six months or less prior to selling the loans to the GSE, HUD will consider that the seller has met the requirements of this paragraph (e)(4) and of 12 U.S.C. 4563(b)(1)(B).
(f)
Partial credit activities.
Mortgages insured under HUD's Title I program, which includes property improvement and manufactured home loans, shall receive one-half credit toward the Special Affordable Housing Goal until such time as the Government National Mortgage Association fully implements a program to purchase and securitize Title I loans.
(g)
No credit activities.
Neither the purchase nor the securitization of mortgages associated with the refinancing of a GSE's existing mortgage or mortgage-backed securities portfolios shall receive credit toward the achievement of the Special Affordable Housing Goal. Refinancings that result from the wholesale exchange of mortgages between the two GSEs shall not count toward the achievement of this goal. Refinancings of individual mortgages shall count toward achievement of this goal when the refinancing is an arms-length transaction that is borrower-driven and the mortgage otherwise counts toward achievement of this goal. For purposes of this paragraph (g), “mortgages or mortgage-backed securities portfolios” includes mortgages retained by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and mortgages utilized to back mortgage-backed securities.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65086, Oct. 31, 2000; 69 FR 63640, Nov. 2, 2004]
§ 81.15
General requirements.
(a)
Calculating the numerator and denominator.
Performance under each of the housing goals shall be measured using a fraction that is converted into a percentage.
(1)
The numerator.
The numerator of each fraction is the number of dwelling units financed by a GSE's mortgage purchases in a particular year that count toward achievement of the housing goal.
(2)
The denominator.
The denominator of each fraction is, for all mortgages purchased, the number of dwelling units that could count toward achievement of the goal under appropriate circumstances. The denominator shall not include GSE transactions or activities that are not mortgages or mortgage purchases as defined by HUD or transactions that are specifically excluded as ineligible under § 81.16(b).
(3)
Missing data or information.
When a GSE lacks sufficient data or information to determine whether the purchase of a mortgage originated after 1992 counts toward achievement of a particular housing goal, that mortgage purchase shall be included in the denominator for that housing goal, except under the circumstances described in paragraphs (d) and (e)(6) of this section.
(b)
Properties with multiple dwelling units.
For the purposes of counting toward the achievement of the goals, whenever the property securing a mortgage contains more than one dwelling unit, each such dwelling unit shall be counted as a separate dwelling unit financed by a mortgage purchase.
(c)
Credit toward multiple goals.
A mortgage purchase (or dwelling unit financed by such purchase) by a GSE in a particular year shall count toward the achievement of each housing goal for which such purchase (or dwelling unit) qualifies in that year.
(d)
Counting owner-occupied units.
(1) For purposes of counting owner-occupied units toward achievement of the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal or the Special Affordable Housing Goal, mortgage purchases financing such units shall be evaluated based on the income of the mortgagors and the area median income at the time of origination of the mortgage. To determine whether mortgages may be counted under a particular family income level, i.e., especially low, very low, low or moderate income, the income of the mortgagors is compared to the median income for the area at the time of the mortgage application, using the appropriate percentage factor provided under § 81.17.
(2)(i) When the income of the mortgagor(s) is not available to determine whether an owner-occupied unit in a property securing a single-family mortgage originated after 1992 and purchased by a GSE counts toward achievement of the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal or the Special Affordable Housing Goal, a GSE's performance with respect to such unit may be evaluated using estimated affordability information in accordance with one of the following methods:
(A) Excluding from the denominator and the numerator single-family owner-occupied units located in census tracts with median incomes less than, or equal to, area median income based on the most recent decennial census, up to a maximum of one percent of the total number of single-family owner-occupied dwelling units eligible to be counted toward the respective housing goal in the current year. Mortgage purchases with missing data in excess of the maximum will be included in the denominator and excluded from the numerator;
(B) For home purchase mortgages and for refinance mortgages separately, multiplying the number of owner-occupied units with missing borrower income information in properties securing mortgages purchased by the GSE in each census tract by the percentage of all single-family owner-occupied mortgage originations in the respective tracts that would count toward achievement of each goal, as determined by HUD based on the most recent HMDA data available; or
(C) Such other data source and methodology as may be approved by HUD.
(ii) In any calendar year, a GSE may use only one of the methods specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section to estimate affordability information for single-family owner-occupied units.
(iii) If a GSE chooses to use an estimation methodology under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(B) or (d)(2)(i)(C) of this section to determine affordability for owner-occupied units in properties securing single-family mortgage purchases eligible to be counted toward the respective housing goal, then that methodology may be used up to nationwide maximums for home purchase mortgages and for refinance mortgages that shall be calculated by multiplying, for each census tract, the percentage of all single-family owner-occupied mortgage originations with missing borrower incomes (as determined by HUD based on the most recent HMDA data available for home purchase and refinance mortgages, respectively) by the number of single-family owner-occupied units in properties securing mortgages purchased by the GSE for each census tract, summed up over all census tracts. If this nationwide maximum is
exceeded, then the estimated number of goal-qualifying units will be adjusted by the ratio of the applicable nationwide maximum number of units for which income information may be estimated to the total number of single-family owner-occupied units with missing income information in properties securing mortgages purchased by the GSE. Owner-occupied units in excess of the nationwide maximum, and any units for which estimation information is not available, shall remain in the denominator of the respective goal calculation.
(e)
Counting rental units
—(1)
Use of income, rent
—(i)
Generally.
For purposes of counting rental units toward achievement of the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal or the Special Affordable Housing Goal, mortgage purchases financing such units shall be evaluated based on the income of actual or prospective tenants where such data is available,
i.e.,
known to a lender.
(ii)
Availability of income information.
(A) Each GSE shall require lenders to provide to the GSE tenant income information under paragraphs (e)(3) and (4) of this section, but only when such information is known to the lender.
(B) When such tenant income information is available for all occupied units, the GSE's performance shall be based on the income of the tenants in the occupied units. For unoccupied units that are vacant and available for rent and for unoccupied units that are under repair or renovation and not available for rent, the GSE shall use the income of prospective tenants, if paragraph (e)(4) of this section is applicable. If paragraph (e)(4) of this section is not applicable, the GSE shall use rent levels for comparable units in the property to determine affordability.
(2)
Model units and rental offices.
A model unit or rental office in a multifamily property may count toward achievement of the housing goals only if a GSE determines that:
(i) It is reasonably expected that the units will be occupied by a family within one year;
(ii) The number of such units is reasonable and minimal considering the size of the multifamily property; and
(iii) Such unit otherwise meets the requirements for the goal.
(3)
Income of actual tenants.
When the income of actual tenants is available, to determine whether a tenant is very-low-, low-, or moderate-income, the income of the tenant shall be compared to the median income for the area, adjusted for family size as provided in § 81.17.
(4)
Income of prospective tenants.
When income for tenants is available to a lender because a project is subject to a Federal housing program that establishes the maximum income for a tenant or a prospective tenant in rental units, the income of prospective tenants may be counted at the maximum income level established under such housing program for that unit. In determining the income of prospective tenants, the income shall be projected based on the types of units and market area involved. Where the income of prospective tenants is projected, each GSE must determine that the income figures are reasonable considering the rents (if any) on the same units in the past and considering current rents on comparable units in the same market area.
(5)
Use of rent.
When the income of the prospective or actual tenants of a dwelling unit is not available, performance under these goals will be evaluated based on rent and whether the rent is affordable to the income group targeted by the housing goal. A rent is affordable if the rent does not exceed 30 percent of the maximum income level of very-low-, low-, or moderate-income families as provided in § 81.19. In determining contract rent for a dwelling unit, the actual rent or average rent by unit type shall be used.
(6)
Affordability data unavailable.
(i)
Multifamily.
(A) When a GSE lacks sufficient information to determine whether a rental unit in a property securing a multifamily mortgage purchased by a GSE counts toward achievement of the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal or the Special Affordable Housing Goal because neither the income of prospective or actual tenants, nor the actual or average rental data, are available, a GSE's performance with respect to such unit
may be evaluated using estimated affordability information in accordance with one of the following methods:
(
1
) Multiplying the number of rental units with missing affordability information in properties securing multifamily mortgages purchased by the GSE in each census tract by the percentage of all rental dwelling units in the respective tracts that would count toward achievement of each goal, as determined by HUD based on the most recent decennial census. For units with missing affordability information in tracts for which such methodology is not possible, such units will be excluded from the denominator as well as the numerator in calculating performance under the respective housing goal(s); or
(
2
) Such other data source and methodology as may be approved by HUD.
(B) In any calendar year, a GSE may use only one of the methods specified in paragraph (e)(6)(i)(A) of this section to estimate affordability information for multifamily rental units.
(C) If a GSE chooses to use an estimation methodology under paragraph (e)(6)(i)(A) of this section to determine affordability for rental units in properties securing multifamily mortgage purchases eligible to be counted toward the respective housing goal, then that methodology may be used up to a nationwide maximum of ten percent of the total number of rental units in properties securing multifamily mortgages purchased by the GSE in the current year. If this maximum is exceeded, the estimated number of goal-qualifying units will be adjusted by the ratio of the nationwide maximum number of units for which affordability information may be estimated to the total number of multifamily rental units with missing affordability information in properties securing mortgages purchased by the GSE. Multifamily rental units in excess of the maximum set forth in this paragraph (e)(6)(i)(C), and any units for which estimation information is not available, shall be removed from the denominator of the respective goal calculation.
(ii)
Rental units in 1-4 unit single-family properties.
(A) When a GSE lacks sufficient information to determine whether a rental unit in a property securing a single-family mortgage purchased by a GSE counts toward achievement of the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Goal or the Special Affordable Housing Goal because neither the income of prospective or actual tenants, nor the actual or average rental data, are available, a GSE's performance with respect to such unit may be evaluated using estimated affordability information in accordance with one of the following methods:
(
1
) Excluding rental units in 1-to 4-unit properties with missing affordability information from the denominator as well as the numerator in calculating performance under those goals;
(
2
) Multiplying the number of rental units with missing affordability information in properties securing single family mortgages purchased by the GSE in each census tract by the percentage of all rental dwelling units in the respective tracts that would count toward achievement of each goal, as determined by HUD based on the most recent decennial census. For units with missing affordability information in tracts for which such methodology is not possible, such units will be excluded from the denominator as well as the numerator in calculating performance under the respective housing goal(s); or
(
3
) Such other data source and methodology as may be approved by HUD.
(B) In any calendar year, a GSE may use only one of the methods specified in paragraph (e)(6)(ii)(A) of this section to estimate affordability information for single-family rental units.
(C) If a GSE chooses to use an estimation methodology under paragraph (e)(6)(ii)(A)(
2
) or (e)(6)(ii)(A)(
3
) of this section to determine affordability for rental units in properties securing single-family mortgage purchases eligible to be counted toward the respective housing goal, then that methodology may be used up to nationwide maximums of five percent of the total number of rental units in properties securing non-seasoned single-family mortgage purchases by the GSE in the current year and 20 percent of the total
number of rental units in properties securing seasoned single-family mortgage purchases by the GSE in the current year. If either or both of these maximums are exceeded, the estimated number of goal-qualifying units will be adjusted by the ratio of the applicable nationwide maximum number of units for which affordability information may be estimated to the total number of single-family rental units with missing affordability information in properties securing seasoned or unseasoned mortgages purchased by the GSE, as applicable. Single-family rental units in excess of the maximums set forth in this paragraph (e)(6)(ii)(C), and any units for which estimation information is not available, shall be removed from the denominator of the respective goal calculation.
(7)
Timeliness of information.
In determining performance under the housing goals, each GSE shall use tenant and rental information as of the time of mortgage:
(i) Acquisition for mortgages on multifamily housing; and
(ii) Origination for mortgages on single-family housing.
(f)
Application of Median income.
(1) For purposes of determining an area's median income under §§ 81.17 through 81.19 and for the definition of “low-income area,” the area is:
(i) The metropolitan area, if the property which is the subject of the mortgage is in a metropolitan area; and
(ii) In all other areas, the county in which the property is located, except that where the State nonmetropolitan median income is higher than the county's median income, the area is the State nonmetropolitan area.
(2) When a GSE cannot precisely determine whether a mortgage is on dwelling unit(s) located in one area, the GSE shall determine the median income for the split area in the manner prescribed by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council for reporting under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, if the GSE can determine that the mortgage is on dwelling unit(s) located in:
(i) A census tract;
(ii) A census place code;
(iii) A block-group enumeration district;
(iv) A nine-digit zip code; or
(v) Another appropriate geographic segment that is partially located in more than one area (“split area”).
(g)
Sampling not permitted.
Performance under the housing goals for each year shall be based on a complete tabulation of mortgage purchases for that year; a sampling of such purchases is not acceptable.
(h)
Newly available data.
When a GSE uses data to determine whether a mortgage purchase counts toward achievement of any goal and new data is released after the start of a calendar quarter, the GSE need not use the new data until the start of the following quarter.
(i)
Counting mortgages toward the Home Purchase Subgoals
—(1)
General.
The requirements of this section, except for paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section, shall apply to counting mortgages toward the Home Purchase Subgoals at §§ 81.12 through 81.14. However, performance under the subgoals shall be counted using a fraction that is converted into a percentage for each subgoal and the numerator of the fraction for each subgoal shall be the number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases in a particular year that count towards achievement of the applicable housing goal. The denominator of each fraction shall be the total number of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas financed by each GSE's mortgage purchases in a particular year. For purposes of each subgoal, the procedure for addressing missing data or information, as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, shall be implemented using numbers of home purchase mortgages in metropolitan areas and not single-family owner-occupied dwelling units.
(2)
Special counting rule for mortgages with more than one owner-occupied unit.
For purposes of counting mortgages toward the Home Purchase Subgoals, where a single home purchase mortgage finances the purchase of two or more owner-occupied units in a metropolitan area, the mortgage shall count
once toward each subgoal that applies to the GSE's mortgage purchase.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65087, Oct. 31, 2000; 69 FR 63641, Nov. 2, 2004]
§ 81.16
Special counting requirements.
(a)
General.
HUD shall determine whether a GSE shall receive full, partial, or no credit for a transaction toward achievement of any of the housing goals. In this determination, HUD will consider whether a transaction or activity of the GSE is substantially equivalent to a mortgage purchase and either creates a new market or adds liquidity to an existing market, provided however that such mortgage purchase actually fulfills the GSE's purposes and is in accordance with its Charter Act.
(b)
Not counted.
The following transactions or activities shall not count toward achievement of any of the housing goals and shall not be included in the denominator in calculating either GSE's performance under the housing goals:
(1) Equity investments in housing development projects;
(2) Purchases of State and local government housing bonds except as provided in 81.16(c)(8);
(3) Purchases of non-conventional mortgages except:
(i) Where such mortgages are acquired under a risk-sharing arrangement with a Federal agency;
(ii) Mortgages insured under HUD's Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (“HECM”) insurance program, 12 U.S.C. 1715z-20; mortgages guaranteed under the Rural Housing Service's Single Family Housing Guaranteed Loan Program, 42 U.S.C. 1472; mortgages on properties on lands insured under FHA's Section 248 program, 12 U.S.C. 1715z-13, or HUD's Section 184 program, 12 U.S.C. 1515z-13a, or Title VI of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, 25 U.S.C. 4191-4195; and mortgages with expiring assistance contracts as defined at 42 U.S.C. 1737f;
(iii) Mortgages under other mortgage programs involving Federal guarantees, insurance or other Federal obligation where the Department determines in writing that the financing needs addressed by the particular mortgage program are not well served and that the mortgage purchases under such program should count under the housing goals, provided the GSE submits documentation to HUD that supports eligibility and that HUD makes such a determination, or
(iv) As provided in § 81.14(e)(3)
(4) Commitments to buy mortgages at a later date or time;
(5) Options to acquire mortgages;
(6) Rights of first refusal to acquire mortgages;
(7) Any interests in mortgages that the Secretary determines, in writing, shall not be treated as interests in mortgages;
(8) Mortgage purchases to the extent they finance any dwelling units that are secondary residences; and
(9) Single family mortgage refinancings that result from conversion of balloon notes to fully amortizing notes, if the GSE already owns or has an interest in the balloon note at the time conversion occurs.
(10) Any combination of factors in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section.
(c)
Other special rules.
Subject to HUD's primary determination of whether a GSE shall receive full, partial, or no credit for a transaction toward achievement of any of the housing goals as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the following supplemental rules apply:
(1)
Credit enhancements.
(i) Dwelling units financed under a credit enhancement entered into by a GSE shall be treated as mortgage purchases and count toward achievement of the housing goals when:
(A) The GSE provides a specific contractual obligation to ensure timely payment of amounts due under a mortgage or mortgages financed by the issuance of housing bonds (such bonds may be issued by any entity, including a State or local housing finance agency);
(B) The GSE assumes a credit risk in the transaction substantially equivalent to the risk that would have been assumed by the GSE if it had securitized the mortgages financed by such bonds; and
(C) Such dwelling units otherwise qualify under this part.
(ii) When a GSE provides a specific contractual obligation to ensure timely payment of amounts due under any mortgage originally insured by a public purpose mortgage insurance entity or fund, the GSE may, on a case-by-case basis, seek approval from the Secretary for such activities to count toward achievement of the housing goals.
(2)
Real estate mortgage investment conduits (“REMICs”).
(i) A GSE's purchase or guarantee of all or a portion of a REMIC shall be treated as a mortgage purchase and receive credit toward the achievement of the housing goals provided:
(A) The underlying mortgages or mortgage-backed securities for the REMIC were not:
(
1
) Guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association; or
(
2
) Previously counted toward any housing goal by the GSE; and
(B) The GSE has the information necessary to support counting the dwelling units financed by the REMIC, or that part of the REMIC purchased or guaranteed by the GSE, toward the achievement of a particular housing goal.
(ii) For REMICs that meet the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section and for which the GSE purchased or guaranteed:
(A) The whole REMIC, all of the units financed by the REMIC shall be treated as a mortgage purchase and count toward achievement of the housing goals; or
(B) A portion of the REMIC, the GSE shall receive partial credit toward achievement of the housing goals. This credit shall be equal to the percentage of the REMIC purchased or guaranteed by the GSE (the dollar amount of the purchase or guarantee divided by the total dollar amount of the REMIC) multiplied by the number of dwelling units that would have counted toward the goal(s) if the GSE had purchased or guaranteed the whole REMIC. In calculating performance under the housing goals, the denominator shall include the number of dwelling units included in the whole REMIC multiplied by the percentage of the REMIC purchased or guaranteed by the GSE.
(3)
Risk-sharing.
Mortgage purchases under risk-sharing arrangements between the GSEs and any Federal agency where the units would otherwise count toward achievement of the housing goal under which the GSE is responsible for a substantial amount (50 percent or more) of the risk shall be treated as mortgage purchases and count toward achievement of the housing goal or goals.
(4)
Participations.
Participations purchased by a GSE shall be treated as mortgage purchases and count toward the achievement of the housing goals, if the GSE's participation in the mortgage is 50 percent or more.
(5)
Cooperative housing and condominium projects.
(i) The purchase of a mortgage on a cooperative housing unit (“a share loan”) or a condominium unit is a mortgage purchase. Such a purchase is counted toward achievement of a housing goal in the same manner as a mortgage purchase of single-family owner-occupied units,
i.e.,
affordability is based on the income of the owner(s).
(ii) The purchase of a mortgage on a cooperative building (“a blanket loan”) or a condominium project is a mortgage purchase and shall count toward achievement of the housing goals. Where a GSE purchases both “a blanket loan” and mortgages for units in the same building (“share loans”), both the blanket loan and the share loan(s) are mortgage purchases and shall count toward achievement of the housing goals. Where a GSE purchases both a condominium project mortgage and mortgages on condominium dwelling units in the same project, both the condominium project mortgages and the mortgages on condominium dwelling units are mortgage purchases and shall count toward achievement of the housing goals.
(6)
Seasoned mortgages.
A GSE's purchase of a seasoned mortgage shall be treated as a mortgage purchase for purposes of these goals and shall be included in the numerator, as appropriate, and the denominator in calculating the GSE's performance under the housing goals, except where:
(i) The GSE has already counted the mortgage under a housing goal applicable to 1993 or any subsequent year; or
(ii) HUD determines, based upon a written request by a GSE, that a seasoned mortgage or class of such mortgages should be excluded from the numerator and the denominator in order to further the purposes of the Special Affordable Housing Goal.
(7)
Purchase of refinanced mortgages.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the purchase of a refinanced mortgage by a GSE is a mortgage purchase and shall count toward achievement of the housing goals to the extent the mortgage qualifies.
(8)
Mortgage revenue bonds.
(i) The purchase of a state or local mortgage revenue bond shall be treated as a mortgage purchase and units financed under such MRB shall count toward achievement of the goals where:
(A) The MRB is to be repaid only from the principal and interest of the underlying mortgages originated with funds made available by the MRB; and
(B) The MRB is not a general obligation of a state or local government or agency or is not credit enchanced by any government or agency, third party guarantor or surety.
(ii) Dwelling units financed by a mortgage revenue bond meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section shall count toward a housing goal to the extent such dwelling units otherwise qualify under this part.
(9)
Expiring assistance contracts.
In accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4565(a)(5), actions that assist in maintaining the affordability of assisted units in eligible multifamily housing projects with expiring contracts shall receive credit under the housing goals as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) and in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) through (c)(9) of this section.
(i) For restructured (modified) multifamily mortgage loans with an expiring assistance contract where a GSE holds the loan in portfolio and facilitates modification of loan terms that results in lower debt service to the project's owner, the GSE shall receive full credit under any of the housing goals for which the units covered by the mortgage otherwise qualify.
(ii) Where a GSE undertakes more than one action to assist a single project or where a GSE engages in an activity that it believes assists in maintaining the affordability of assisted units in eligible multifamily housing projects but which is not otherwise covered in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section, the GSE must submit the transaction to HUD for a determination on appropriate goals counting treatment.
(10)-(11) [Reserved]
(12)
HOEPA mortgages and mortgages with unacceptable terms and conditions.
HOEPA mortgages and mortgages with unacceptable terms or conditions as defined in § 81.2 will not receive credit toward any of the three housing goals.
(13)
Mortgages contrary to good lending practices.
The Secretary will monitor the practices and processes of the GSEs to ensure that they are not purchasing loans that are contrary to good lending practices as defined in § 81.2. Based on the results of such monitoring, the Secretary may determine in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section that mortgages or categories of mortgages where a lender has not engaged in good lending practices will not receive credit toward the three housing goals.
(14)
Seller dissolution option.
(i) Mortgages acquired through transactions involving seller dissolution options shall be treated as mortgage purchases, and receive credit toward the achievement of the housing goals, only when:
(A) The terms of the transaction provide for a lockout period that prohibits the exercise of the dissolution option for at least one year from the date on which the transaction was entered into by the GSE and the seller of the mortgages; and
(B) The transaction is not dissolved during the one-year minimum lockout period.
(ii) The Secretary may grant an exception to the one-year minimum lockout period described in paragraph (c)(14)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, in response to a written request from an enterprise, if the Secretary determines that the transaction furthers the purposes of FHEFSSA and the GSE's charter act;
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(14), “seller dissolution option”
means an option for a seller of mortgages to the GSEs to dissolve or otherwise cancel a mortgage purchase agreement or loan sale.
(d)
HUD review of transactions.
HUD will determine whether a class of transactions counts as a mortgage purchase under the housing goals. If a GSE seeks to have a class of transactions counted under the housing goals that does not otherwise count under the rules in this part, the GSE may provide HUD detailed information regarding the transactions for evaluation and determination by HUD in accordance with this section. In making its determination, HUD may also request and evaluate additional information from a GSE with regard to how the GSE believes the transactions should be counted. HUD will notify the GSE of its determination regarding the extent to which the class of transactions may count under the goals.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65088, Oct. 31, 2000; 69 FR 63642, Nov. 2, 2004]
§ 81.17
Affordability—Income level definitions—family size and income known (owner-occupied units, actual tenants, and prospective tenants).
In determining whether a dwelling unit is affordable to very-low-, low-, or moderate-income families, where the unit is owner-occupied or, for rental housing, family size and income information for the dwelling unit is known to the GSE, the affordability of the unit shall be determined as follows:
(a)
Moderate-income
means:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 100 percent of area median income; and
(2) In the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area median income
1
70
2
80
3
90
4
100
5 or more
(*)
*100% plus (8% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
(b)
Low-income
means:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 80 percent of area median income; and
(2) In the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area median income
1
56
2
64
3
72
4
80
5 or more
(*)
*80% plus (6.4% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
(c)
Very-low-income
means:
(1) In the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 60 percent of area median income; and
(2) In the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area median income
1
42
2
48
3
54
4
60
5 or more
(*)
*60% plus (4.8% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
(d)
Especially-low-income
means, in the case of rental units, where the income of actual or prospective tenants is available, income not in excess of the following percentages of area median income corresponding to the following family sizes:
Number of persons in family
Percentage of area median income
1
35
2
40
3
45
4
50
5 or more
(*)
* 50% plus (4.0% multiplied by the number of persons in excess of 4).
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65089, Oct. 31, 2000]
§ 81.18
Affordability—Income level definitions—family size not known (actual or prospective tenants).
In determining whether a rental unit is affordable to very-low, low-, or moderate-income families where family size is not known to the GSE, income will be adjusted using unit size, and affordability determined as follows:
(a)
For moderate-income,
the income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
70
1 bedroom
75
2 bedrooms
90
3 bedrooms or more
(*)
*104% plus (12% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(b)
For low-income,
income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
56
1 bedroom
60
2 bedrooms
72
3 bedrooms or more
(*)
*83.2% plus (9.6% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(c)
For very-low-income,
income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
42
1 bedroom
45
2 bedrooms
54
3 bedrooms or more
(*)
*62.4% plus (7.2% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(d)
For especially-low-income,
income of prospective tenants shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
35
1 bedroom
37.5
2 bedrooms
45
3 bedrooms or more
(*)
* 52% plus (6.0% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65089, Oct. 31, 2000]
§ 81.19
Affordability—Rent level definitions—tenant income is not known.
For purposes of determining whether a rental unit is affordable to very-low-, low-, or moderate-income families where the income of the family in the dwelling unit is not known to the GSE, the affordability of the unit is determined based on unit size as follows:
(a)
For moderate-income,
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for moderate-income families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
21
1 bedroom
22.5
2 bedrooms
27
3 bedrooms or more
(*)
*31.2% plus (3.6% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3);
(b)
For low-income,
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for low-income families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
16.8
1 bedroom
18
2 bedrooms
21.6
3 bedrooms or more
(*)
*24.96% plus (2.88% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3); and
(c)
For very-low-income,
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for very-low-income families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
12.6
1 bedroom
13.5
2 bedrooms
16.2
3 bedrooms or more
(*)
*18.72% plus (2.16% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(d)
For especially-low-income,
maximum affordable rents to count as housing for especially-low-income families shall not exceed the following percentages of area median income with adjustments, depending on unit size:
Unit size
Percentage of area median income
Efficiency
10.5
1 bedroom
11.25
2 bedrooms
13.5
3 bedrooms or more
(*)
* 15.6% plus (1.8% multiplied by the number of bedrooms in excess of 3).
(e)
Missing Information.
Each GSE shall make every effort to obtain the information necessary to make the calculations in this section. If a GSE makes such efforts but cannot obtain data on the number of bedrooms in particular units, in making the calculations on such units, the units shall be assumed to be efficiencies except as provided in § 81.15(e)(6)(i).
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65089, Oct. 31, 2000]
§ 81.20
Actions to be taken to meet the goals.
To meet the goals under this rule, each GSE shall operate in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4565.
§ 81.21
Notice and determination of failure to meet goals.
If the Secretary determines that a GSE has failed or there is a substantial probability that a GSE will fail to meet any housing goal, the Secretary shall follow the procedures at 12 U.S.C. 4566(b).
§ 81.22
Housing plans.
(a) If the Secretary determines, under § 81.21, that a GSE has failed or there is a substantial probability that a GSE will fail to meet any housing goal and that the achievement of the housing goal was or is feasible, the Secretary shall require the GSE to submit a housing plan for approval by the Secretary.
(b)
Nature of plan.
Each housing plan shall:
(1) Be feasible;
(2) Be sufficiently specific to enable the Secretary to monitor compliance periodically;
(3) Describe the specific actions that the GSE will take:
(i) To achieve the goal for the next calendar year; or
(ii) If the Secretary determines that there is substantial probability that the GSE will fail to meet a housing goal in the current year, to make such improvements as are reasonable in the remainder of the year; and
(4) Address any additional matters relevant to the plan as required, in writing, by the Secretary.
(c)
Deadline for submission.
The GSE shall submit a housing plan to the Secretary within 30 days after issuance of a notice under § 81.21 requiring the GSE to submit a housing plan. The Secretary may extend the deadline for submission of a plan, in writing and for a time certain, to the extent the Secretary determines an extension is necessary.
(d)
Review of housing plans.
The Secretary shall review and approve or disapprove housing plans in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c)(4) and (5).
(e)
Resubmission.
If the Secretary disapproves an initial housing plan submitted by a GSE, the GSE shall submit an amended plan acceptable to the Secretary within 30 days of the Secretary disapproving the initial plan; the Secretary may extend the deadline if the Secretary determines an extension is in the public interest. If the amended plan is not acceptable to the Secretary,
the Secretary may afford the GSE 15 days to submit a new plan.

# Subpart C—Fair Housing
§ 81.41
General.
In this subpart, the Secretary: prohibits discrimination by the GSEs in their mortgage purchases because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, age, or national origin, including any consideration of the age or location of a dwelling or age of the neighborhood or census tract where the dwelling is located in a manner that has a discriminatory effect; requires that the GSEs submit information to the Secretary to assist Fair Housing Act and ECOA investigations; provides for advising the GSEs of Fair Housing Act and ECOA violations; provides for reviewing the GSEs' underwriting and appraisal guidelines to ensure compliance with the Fair Housing Act; and requires that the GSEs take actions as directed by the Secretary following Fair Housing Act and ECOA adjudications. Because FHEFSSA provides, generally, that the Director of OFHEO shall enforce violations by the GSEs of FHEFSSA and regulations in this subpart, this subpart also provides for referral of such cases to the Director.
§ 81.42
Prohibitions against discrimination.
Neither GSE shall discriminate in any manner in making any mortgage purchases because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, age, or national origin, including any consideration of the age or location of the dwelling or the age of the neighborhood or census tract where the dwelling is located in a manner that has a discriminatory effect.
§ 81.43
Reports; underwriting and appraisal guideline review.
(a)
Reports.
Each GSE, in the AHAR required under § 81.63, shall assess underwriting standards, business practices, repurchase requirements, pricing, fees, and procedures that affect the purchase of mortgages for low- and moderate-income families, or that may yield disparate results based on the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, age, or national origin of the borrower, including revisions thereto to promote affordable housing or fair lending.
(b)
Review of Underwriting and Appraisal Guidelines.
The Secretary shall periodically review and comment on the underwriting and appraisal guidelines of each enterprise to ensure that such guidelines are consistent with the Fair Housing Act and 12 U.S.C. 4545.
§ 81.44
Submission of information to the Secretary.
(a)
General.
Upon request from the Secretary, the GSEs shall submit information and data to the Secretary to assist in investigating whether any mortgage lender with which the GSE does business has failed to comply with the Fair Housing Act or ECOA.
(b)
Information requests and submissions
—(1)
Information requests by the Secretary.
The Secretary may require the GSEs to submit information to assist in Fair Housing Act or ECOA investigations of lenders. Under FHEFSSA, other Federal agencies responsible for the enforcement of ECOA must submit requests for information from the GSEs through the Secretary. For matters involving only ECOA, the Secretary will only issue requests for information upon request from the appropriate Federal agency responsible for ECOA.
(2)
Information from established data systems.
The Secretary may request that a GSE generate information or reports from its data system(s) to assist a Fair Housing Act or ECOA investigation.
(3)
GSE replies.
A GSE receiving any request(s) for information under this section shall reply in a complete and timely manner with any and all information that it is privy to and collects that is responsive to the request.
(c)
Submission to ECOA enforcers.
The Secretary shall submit any information received under paragraph (b) of this section concerning compliance with ECOA to appropriate Federal agencies responsible for ECOA enforcement, as provided in section 704 of ECOA.
§ 81.45
Obtaining and disseminating information.
(a) The Secretary shall obtain information from other regulatory and enforcement agencies of the Federal Government and State and local governments regarding violations by lenders of the Fair Housing Act, ECOA, and/or State or local fair housing/lending laws, and shall make such information available to the GSEs as the Secretary deems appropriate in accordance with applicable law regarding the confidentiality of supervisory information and the right to financial privacy, and subject to the terms of memoranda of understanding and other arrangements between the Secretary and Federal financial regulators and other agencies. In addition, the Secretary shall make information that the Secretary possesses regarding violations of the Fair Housing Act available to the GSEs.
(b) As contemplated in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary shall obtain information regarding violations by lenders of the Fair Housing Act or ECOA involving discrimination with respect to the availability of credit in a residential real-estate-related transaction from other Federal regulatory or enforcement agencies. The Secretary will obtain information from regulators regarding violations of ECOA by lenders only in circumstances in which there is either more than a single ECOA violation, or the ECOA violation could also be a violation of the Fair Housing Act.
§ 81.46
Remedial actions.
(a)
General.
The Secretary shall direct the GSEs to take one or more remedial actions, including suspension, probation, reprimand or settlement, against lenders found to have engaged in discriminatory lending practices in violation of the Fair Housing Act or ECOA, pursuant to a final adjudication on the record and an opportunity for a hearing under subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Indefinite suspension
means that, until directed to do otherwise by the Secretary, the GSEs will refrain from purchasing mortgages from a lender.
Probation
means that, for a fixed period of time specified by the Secretary, a lender that has been found to have violated the Fair Housing Act or ECOA will be subject automatically to more severe sanctions than probation,
e.g.,
suspension, if further violations are found.
Remedial action
includes a reprimand, probation, temporary suspension, indefinite suspension, or settlement.
Reprimand
means a written letter to a lender from a GSE, which has been directed to be sent by the Secretary, stating that the lender has violated the Fair Housing Act or ECOA and warning of the possibility that the Secretary may impose more severe remedial actions than reprimand if any further violation occurs.
Temporary Suspension
means that, for a fixed period of time specified by the Secretary, the GSEs will not purchase mortgages from a lender.
(c)
Institution of remedial actions.
(1) The Secretary shall direct the GSE to take remedial action(s) against a lender charged with violating ECOA only after a final determination on the charge has been made by an appropriate United States District Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction. The Secretary shall direct the GSE to take remedial action(s) against a lender charged with violating the Fair Housing Act only after a final determination on the matter has been made by a United States Court, a HUD Administrative Law Judge, or the Secretary.
(2) Following a final determination sustaining a charge against a lender for violating the Fair Housing Act or ECOA, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall determine the remedial action(s) that the GSE is to be directed to take for such violation.
(3) In determining the appropriate remedial action(s), the Secretary shall solicit and fully consider the views of the Federal financial regulator responsible for the subject lender concerning the action(s) that are contemplated to be directed against such lender, prior to directing any such action(s). If such responsible Federal financial regulator makes a written determination that a particular remedial action would
threaten the financial safety and soundness of a Federally-insured lender, the Secretary shall consider other remedial actions. Where warranted, the Secretary also shall solicit and fully consider the views of the Director regarding the effect of the action(s) that are contemplated on the safety and soundness of the GSE. In determining what action(s) to direct, the Secretary will also, without limitation, consider the following:
(i) The gravity of the violation;
(ii) The extent to which other action has been taken against the lender for discriminatory activities;
(iii) Whether the lender's actions demonstrate a discriminatory pattern or practice or an individual instance of discrimination;
(iv) The impact or seriousness of the harm;
(v) The number of people affected by the discriminatory act(s);
(vi) Whether the lender operates an effective program of self assessment and correction;
(vii) The extent of any actions or programs by the lender designed to compensate victims and prevent future fair lending violations;
(viii) The extent that a finding of liability against a lender is based on a lender's use of a facially-neutral underwriting guideline of a secondary mortgage market entity applied appropriately by the lender in order to sell loans to that secondary mortgage market entity; and
(ix) Any other information deemed relevant by the Secretary.
(d)
Notice of remedial action(s).
(1) Following the Secretary's decision concerning the appropriate remedial action(s) that the GSE is to be directed to take, the Secretary shall prepare and issue to the GSE and the lender a written notice setting forth the remedial action(s) to be taken and the date such remedial action(s) are to commence. The Notice shall inform the lender of its right to request a hearing on the appropriateness of the proposed remedial action(s), within 20 days of service of the Notice, by filing a request with the Docket Clerk, HUD Office of Hearings and Appeals.
(2) Where a lender does not timely request a hearing on a remedial action, the GSE shall take the action in accordance with the Notice.
(e)
Review and decision on remedial action(s).
(1) Where a lender timely requests a hearing on a remedial action, a hearing shall be conducted before a HUD administrative law judge (ALJ) and a final decision rendered in accordance with the procedures set forth in 24 CFR part 26, subpart B, to the extent such provisions are not inconsistent with subpart C of this part or FHEFSSA. The lender and the Secretary, but not the GSE, shall be parties to the action. At such hearing, the appropriateness of the remedial action for the violation(s) will be the sole matter for review. The validity or appropriateness of the underlying determination on the violation(s) shall not be subject to review at such hearing.
(2) The Secretary shall transmit to the GSEs each final decision by HUD on a remedial action and any dispositive settlement of a proceeding on such action.
(3) The GSE shall take the action(s) set forth in a final decision by HUD on remedial action(s) or any dispositive settlement of such a proceeding setting forth remedial action(s) in accordance with such decision or settlement.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 50218, Sept. 24, 1996; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 81.47
Violations of provisions by the GSEs.
(a) FHEFSSA empowers the Director of OFHEO to initiate enforcement actions for GSE violations of the provisions of section 1325 of FHEFSSA and these regulations. The Secretary shall refer violations and potential violations of 12 U.S.C. 4545 and this subpart C to the Director.
(b) Where a private complainant or the Secretary is also proceeding against a GSE under the Fair Housing Act, the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity shall conduct the investigation of the complaint and make the reasonable cause/no reasonable cause determination required by section 810(g) of the Fair Housing Act. Where reasonable cause is found, a charge shall be issued and the matter will proceed to enforcement
pursuant to sections 812(b) and (o) of the Fair Housing Act.

# Subpart D—New Program Approval
§ 81.51
General.
This subpart details the requirements and procedures for review of requests for new program approval by the Secretary.
§ 81.52
Requirement for program requests.
(a) Before implementing a new program, a GSE shall submit a request for new program approval (“program request”) to the Secretary for the Secretary's review. Submission of a program request is not required where the program that the GSE proposes to implement is not significantly different from:
(1) A program that has already been approved in writing by the Secretary; or
(2) A program that was engaged in by the GSE prior to October 28, 1992.
(b) If a GSE does not submit a program request for a program, the Secretary may request information about the program and require that the GSE submit a program request. The GSE shall comply with the request and may indicate in such response its views respecting whether the program is subject to the Secretary's review.
§ 81.53
Processing of program requests.
(a) Each program request submitted to the Secretary by a GSE shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the Secretary and the Director, Office of Government-Sponsored Enterprises, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, DC. For those requests submitted before 1 year after the effective date of the regulations issued by the Director of OFHEO under 12 U.S.C. 4611(e), the GSE shall simultaneously submit the program request to the Director.
(b) Each program request shall include:
(1) An opinion from counsel stating the statutory authority for the new program (Freddie Mac Act section 305(a) (1), (4), or (5), or Fannie Mae Charter Act section 302(b)(2)-(5) or 304);
(2) A good-faith estimate of the anticipated dollar volume of the program over the short- and long-term;
(3) A full description of: (i) The purpose and operation of the proposed program;
(ii) The market targeted by the program;
(iii) The delivery system for the program;
(iv) The effect of the program on the mortgage market; and
(v) Material relevant to the public interest.
(c) Following receipt of a program request, the Secretary and, where a program request is submitted to the Director pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Director shall review the program request.
(d)
Transition standard for approval.
Program requests submitted by the GSEs before the date occurring 1 year after the effective date of the regulations issued by the Director under 12 U.S.C. 4611(e) shall be approved or disapproved by the Secretary as provided in 12 U.S.C. 4542(b)(2).
(e)
Permanent standard for approval by the Secretary.
Program requests submitted after the date occurring one year after the effective date of the regulations issued by the Director under 12 U.S.C. 4611(e) establishing the risk-based capital test shall be approved by the Secretary in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4542(b)(1).
(f)
Time for review.
Unless the Secretary and, where appropriate, the Director of OFHEO, need additional information, a program request shall be approved or disapproved within 45 days from the date it is received by the Director, Office of Government-Sponsored Enterprises, and, where applicable, the Director of OFHEO. If within 45 days after receiving a request, the Secretary or the Director of OFHEO determine that additional information is necessary to review the matter and request such information from the GSE, the Secretary may extend the time period for consideration for an additional 15 days.
(1) Where additional information is requested, the GSE must provide the requested information to the Secretary
and, where appropriate, the Director, within 10 days after the request for additional information.
(2) If the GSE fails to furnish requested information within 10 days after the request for information, the Secretary may deny the GSE's request for approval based on such failure and so report to the Committees of Congress in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(g)
Approval or report.
Within 45 days or, if the period is extended, 60 days following receipt of a program request, the Secretary shall approve the request, in writing, or submit a report to the Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, explaining the reasons for not approving the request. If the Secretary does not act within this time period, the GSE's program request will be deemed approved.
§ 81.54
Review of disapproval.
(a)
Programs disapproved as unauthorized.
(1) Where the Secretary disapproves a program request on the grounds that the new program is not authorized, as defined in § 81.53(d) or (e), the GSE may, within 30 days of the date of receipt of the decision on disapproval, request an opportunity to review and supplement the administrative record for the decision, in accordance with paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section.
(2)
Supplementing in writing.
A GSE supplementing the record in writing must submit written materials within 30 days after the date of receipt of the decision on disapproval, but no later than the date of a meeting, if requested, under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3)
Meeting.
Within 10 days of the date of receipt of the decision of disapproval, the GSE may request a meeting. If the request for the meeting is timely, the Secretary shall arrange such a meeting, which shall be conducted by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee within 10 working days after receipt of the request. The GSE may be represented by counsel and may submit relevant written materials to supplement the record.
(4)
Determination.
The Secretary shall:
(i) In writing and within 10 days after submission of any materials under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or the conclusion of any meeting under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, whichever is later, withdraw, modify, or affirm the program disapproval; and
(ii) Provide the GSE with that decision.
(b)
Programs disapproved under public interest determination.
When a program request is disapproved because the Secretary determines that the program is not in the public interest or the Director makes the determination in 12 U.S.C. 4542(b)(2)(B), the Secretary shall provide the GSE with notice of, and opportunity for, a hearing on the record regarding such disapproval. A request for a hearing must be submitted by a GSE within 30 days of the Secretary's submission of a report under § 81.53(g) disapproving a program request or the provision of the notice under this paragraph (b), whichever is later. The procedures for such hearings are provided in subpart G of this part.

# Subpart E—Reporting Requirements
§ 81.61
General.
This subpart establishes data submission and reporting requirements to carry out the requirements of the GSEs' Charter Acts and FHEFSSA.
§ 81.62
Mortgage reports.
(a)
Loan-level data elements.
To implement the data collection and submission requirements for mortgage data and to assist the Secretary in monitoring the GSEs' housing goal activities, each GSE shall collect and compile computerized loan-level data on each mortgage purchased in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1456(e) and 1723a(m). The Secretary may, from time-to-time, issue a list entitled “Required Loan-level Data Elements” specifying the loan-level data elements to be collected and maintained by the GSEs and provided to the Secretary. The Secretary may revise the list by written notice to the GSEs.
(b)
Quarterly Mortgage reports.
Each GSE shall submit to the Secretary
quarterly a Mortgage Report. The fourth quarter report shall serve as the Annual Mortgage Report and shall be designated as such.
(1) Each Mortgage Report shall include:
(i) Aggregations of the loan-level mortgage data compiled by the GSE under paragraph (a) of this section for year-to-date mortgage purchases, in the format specified in writing by the Secretary; and
(ii) Year-to-date dollar volume, number of units, and number of mortgages on owner-occupied and rental properties purchased by the GSE that do and do not qualify under each housing goal as set forth in this part.
(2) To facilitate the Secretary's monitoring of the GSE's housing goal activities, the Mortgage Report for the second quarter shall include year-to-date computerized loan-level data consisting of the data elements required under paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) To implement the data collection and submission requirements for mortgage data and to assist the Secretary in monitoring the GSE's housing goal activities, each Annual Mortgage Report shall include year-to-date computerized loan-level data consisting of the data elements required by under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Timing of Reports.
The GSEs shall submit the Mortgage Report for each of the first 3 quarters of each year within 60 days of the end of the quarter. Each GSE shall submit its Annual Mortgage Report within 75 days after the end of the calendar year.
(d)
Revisions to Reports.
At any time before submission of its Annual Mortgage Report, a GSE may revise any of its quarterly reports for that year.
(e)
Format.
The GSEs shall submit to the Secretary computerized loan-level data with the Mortgage Report, in the format specified in writing by the Secretary.
§ 81.63
Annual Housing Activities Report.
To comply with the requirements in sections 309(n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and 307(f) of the Freddie Mac Act and assist the Secretary in preparing the Secretary's Annual Report to Congress, each GSE shall submit to the Secretary an AHAR including the information listed in those sections of the Charter Acts and as provided in § 81.43(a) of this part. Each GSE shall submit such report within 75 days after the end of each calendar year, to the Secretary the Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. Each GSE shall make its AHAR available to the public at its principal and regional offices. Before making any such report available to the public, the GSE may exclude from the report any information that the Secretary has deemed proprietary under subpart F of this part.
§ 81.64
Periodic reports.
Each GSE shall provide to the Secretary all:
(a) Material distributed to the GSE's Housing Advisory Council;
(b) Press releases;
(c) Investor reports;
(d) Proxy statements;
(e) Seller-servicer guides; and
(f) Other information disclosed by the GSE to entities outside of the GSE, but only where the GSE determines that such information is relevant to the Secretary's regulatory responsibilities.
§ 81.65
Other information and analyses.
When deemed appropriate and requested in writing, on a case by-case basis, by the Secretary, a GSE shall furnish the data underlying any of the reports required under this part and shall conduct additional analyses concerning any such report. A GSE shall submit additional reports or other information concerning its activities when deemed appropriate to carry out the Secretary's responsibilities under FHEFSSA or the Charter Acts and requested in writing by the Secretary.
§ 81.66
Submission of reports.
Each GSE shall submit all hard copy reports or other written information required under this subpart to the Secretary and the Director, Office of Government-Sponsored Enterprises. Each GSE shall submit computerized data
required under this subpart to the Director, Financial Institutions Regulations, Office of Policy Development and Research. The address for both of these offices is Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW. Washington, DC 20410.

# Subpart F—Access to Information
§ 81.71
General.
This subpart:
(a) Provides for the establishment of a public-use database to make available to the public mortgage data that the GSEs submit to the Secretary under subsection 309(m) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and subsection 307(e) of the Freddie Mac Act, and AHAR information that the GSEs submit to the Secretary in the AHAR under subsection 309(n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act and subsection 307(f) of the Freddie Mac Act;
(b) Establishes mechanisms for the GSEs to designate mortgage data or AHAR information as proprietary information and for the Secretary to determine whether such mortgage data or AHAR information is proprietary information which should be withheld from disclosure;
(c) Addresses the availability of HUD procedures to protect from public disclosure proprietary information and other types of confidential business information submitted by or relating to the GSEs;
(d) Addresses protections from disclosure when there is a request from Congress for information and sets forth protections for treatment of data or information submitted by or relating to the GSEs by HUD officers, employees, and contractors; and
(e) Provides that data or information submitted by or relating to the GSEs that would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy shall not be disclosed to the public.
§ 81.72
Public-use database and public information.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary shall establish and make available for public use, a public-use database containing public data as defined in § 81.2.
(b)
Examination of submissions.
Following receipt of mortgage data and AHAR information from the GSEs, the Secretary shall, as expeditiously as possible, examine the submissions for mortgage data and AHAR information that:
(1) Has been deemed to be proprietary information under this part by a temporary order, final order, or regulation in effect at the time of submission;
(2) Has been designated as proprietary information by the GSE in accordance with § 81.73;
(3) Would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy if such data or information were released to the public; or
(4) Is required to be withheld or, in the determination of the Secretary, is not appropriate for public disclosure under other applicable laws and regulations, including the Trade Secrets Act (18 U.S.C. 1905) and Executive Order 12600.
(c)
Public data and proprietary data.
The Secretary shall place public data in the public-use database. The Secretary shall exclude from the public-use database and from public disclosure:
(1) All mortgage data and AHAR information within the scope of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section;
(2) Any other mortgage data and AHAR information under (b)(2) when determined by the Secretary under § 81.74 to be proprietary information; and
(3) Mortgage data that is not year-end data.
(d)
Access.
The Secretary shall provide such means as the Secretary determines are reasonable for the public to gain access to the public-use database. To obtain access to the public-use database, the public should contact the Director, Office of Government-Sponsored Enterprises, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410, telephone (202) 708-2224 (this is not a toll-free number).
(e)
Fees.
The Secretary may charge reasonable fees to cover the cost of providing access to the public-use database. These fees will include the costs
of system access, computer use, copying fees, and other costs.
§ 81.73
GSE request for proprietary treatment.
(a)
General.
A GSE may request proprietary treatment of any mortgage data or AHAR information that the GSE submits to the Secretary. Such a request does not affect the GSE's responsibility to provide data or information required by the Secretary. Where the Secretary grants a request for proprietary treatment, HUD will not include the data or information in the public-use database or publicly disclose the data or information, except as otherwise provided in accordance with this subpart.
(b)
Request for proprietary treatment of mortgage data and AHAR information.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a GSE requesting proprietary treatment of mortgage data or AHAR information shall:
(1) Clearly designate those portions of the mortgage data or AHAR information to be treated as proprietary, with a prominent stamp, typed legend, or other suitable form of notice, stating “Proprietary Information—Confidential Treatment Requested by [name of GSE]” on each page or portion of page to which the request applies. If such marking is impractical, the GSE shall attach to the mortgage data or information for which confidential treatment is requested a cover sheet prominently marked “Proprietary Information—Confidential Treatment Requested by [name of GSE];”
(2) Accompany its request with a certification by an officer or authorized representative of the GSE that the mortgage data or information is proprietary; and
(3) Submit any additional statements in support of proprietary designation that the GSE chooses to provide.
(c)
Alternative procedure available for mortgage data or AHAR information subject to a temporary order, final order, or regulation in effect.
When the request for proprietary treatment pertains to mortgage data or AHAR information that has been deemed proprietary by the Secretary under a temporary order, final order, or regulation in effect, the GSE may reference such temporary order, final order, or regulation in lieu of complying with paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(d)
Nondisclosure during pendency.
Except as may otherwise be required by law, during the time any Request for Proprietary Treatment under § 81.73 is pending determination by the Secretary, the data or information submitted by the GSE that is the subject of the request shall not be disclosed to, or be subject to examination by, the public or any person or representative of any person or agency outside of HUD.
§ 81.74
Secretarial determination on GSE request.
(a)
General.
The Secretary shall review all Requests for Proprietary Treatment from the GSEs, along with any other information that the Secretary may elicit from other sources regarding the Request.
(b)
Factors for proprietary treatment.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, in making the determination of whether to accord proprietary treatment to mortgage data or AHAR information, the Secretary's considerations shall include, but are not limited to:
(1) The type of data or information involved and the nature of the adverse consequences to the GSE, financial or otherwise, that would result from disclosure, including any adverse effect on the GSE's competitive position;
(2) The existence and applicability of any prior determinations by HUD, any other Federal agency, or a court, concerning similar data or information;
(3) The measures taken by the GSE to protect the confidentiality of the mortgage data or AHAR information in question, and similar data or information, before and after its submission to the Secretary;
(4) The extent to which the mortgage data or AHAR information is publicly available including whether the data or information is available from other entities, from local government offices or records, including deeds, recorded mortgages, and similar documents, or from publicly available data bases;
(5) The difficulty that a competitor, including a seller/servicer, would face
in obtaining or compiling the mortgage data or AHAR information; and
(6) Such additional facts and legal and other authorities as the Secretary may consider appropriate, including the age of the mortgage data (see 24 CFR 81.75(b)(3)), or the extent to which particular mortgage data or AHAR information, when considered together with other information, could reveal proprietary information.
(c)
Alternative criterion for mortgage data or AHAR information subject to a temporary order, final order, or regulation in effect.
Where the request for proprietary treatment pertains to mortgage data or AHAR information that has been deemed proprietary by the Secretary under a temporary order, final order, or regulation in effect, the Secretary shall grant the request with respect to any mortgage data or AHAR information which comes within the order or regulation.
(d)
Determination of proprietary treatment.
The Secretary shall determine, as expeditiously as possible, whether mortgage data or AHAR information designated as proprietary by a GSE is proprietary information, or whether it is not proprietary and subject to inclusion in the public-use database and public release notwithstanding the GSE's request.
(e)
Action when according proprietary treatment to mortgage data and AHAR information.
(1) When the Secretary determines that mortgage data or AHAR information designated as proprietary by a GSE is proprietary, and the mortgage data or AHAR information is not subject to a temporary order, a final order, or a regulation in effect providing that the mortgage data or AHAR information is not subject to public disclosure, the Secretary shall notify the GSE that the request has been granted. In such cases, the Secretary shall issue either a temporary order, a final order, or a regulation providing that the mortgage data or information is not subject to public disclosure. Such a temporary order, final order, or regulation shall:
(i) Document the reasons for the determination; and
(ii) Be provided to the GSE, made available to members of the public, and published in the
Federal Register,
except that any portions of such order or regulation that would reveal the proprietary information shall be withheld from public disclosure. Publications of temporary orders shall invite public comments when feasible.
(2) Where the Secretary determines that such mortgage data or information is proprietary, the Secretary shall not make it publicly available, except as otherwise provided in accordance with this subpart.
(f)
Determination not to accord proprietary treatment to mortgage data and AHAR information or to seek further information.
When the Secretary determines that such mortgage data or AHAR information designated as proprietary by a GSE may not be proprietary, that the request may be granted only in part, or that questions exist concerning the request, the following procedure shall apply:
(1) The Secretary shall provide the GSE with an opportunity for a meeting with HUD to discuss the matter, for the purpose of gaining additional information concerning the request.
(2) Following the meeting, based on the Secretary's review of the mortgage data or AHAR information that is the subject of a request and the GSE's objections, if any, to disclosure of such mortgage data or AHAR information, the Secretary shall make a determination:
(i) If the Secretary determines to withhold from the public-use database as proprietary the mortgage data or AHAR information that is the subject of a request, the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section shall apply; or
(ii) If the Secretary determines that any mortgage data or AHAR information that is the subject of a request is not proprietary, the Secretary shall provide notice in writing to the GSE of the reasons for this determination, and such notice shall provide that the Secretary shall not release the mortgage data or AHAR information to the public for 10 working days.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 69031, Nov. 10, 2005]
§ 81.75
Proprietary information withheld by order or regulation.
(a)
Secretarial determination of proprietary classification.
Following a determination by the Secretary that mortgage data or AHAR information are proprietary information under FHEFSSA, the Secretary shall expeditiously issue a temporary order, final order, or regulation withholding the mortgage data or AHAR information from the public-use database and from public disclosure by HUD in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4546. The Secretary may, from time to time, by regulation or order, issue a list providing that certain mortgage data or AHAR information shall be treated as proprietary information.
(b)
Modification of proprietary classification
—(1)
General.
The Secretary may, based upon a consideration of the factors in § 81.74(b), modify a previous determination that mortgage data or AHAR information are proprietary information (and may also make conforming changes to the list designating certain mortgage data or AHAR information as proprietary information) by regulation, or by order using the procedures described in paragraph (d) of this section, as applicable.
(2)
Release of data following a modification of proprietary classification.
Following the Secretary's determination under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to modify a previous proprietary determination by reclassifying certain mortgage data as non-proprietary, the Secretary shall release the reclassified, non-proprietary mortgage data to the public both prospectively and for all prior years' public use databases, unless otherwise provided by the Secretary.
(3)
Release of aged data.
The Secretary may determine, through case-by-case consideration of individual data elements under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, that certain mortgage data previously determined to be proprietary may lose their proprietary status if they are at least five years old (as measured from the end of the calendar year to which the mortgage data pertain). The Secretary will evaluate the age of the data as one of the relevant factors that may be considered under 24 CFR 81.74(b)(6). If the Secretary determines that such aged mortgage data have lost their proprietary status, these data shall be released publicly.
(c)
Release of aggregated data derived from proprietary loan-level data.
The Secretary may, based upon a consideration of the factors in § 81.74(b) and using the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section, determine that certain aggregated data derived from proprietary loan-level mortgage data are not proprietary. If the Secretary makes such a determination, then the aggregated data shall be released to the public both prospectively and for all prior years, unless otherwise provided by the Secretary.
(d)
Procedures.
The following procedures apply to the Secretary's issuance of an order in connection with a determination under paragraph (b)(1) or (c) of this section:
(1) The Secretary shall provide each GSE with written notice of the mortgage data, AHAR information or aggregated data proposed to be released, and an opportunity to submit written comments. The Secretary may also provide each GSE with an opportunity for a meeting with HUD to discuss the proposed release of mortgage data, AHAR information, or aggregated data;
(2) The Secretary shall make a determination regarding the proposed release of the GSE mortgage data, AHAR information, or aggregated data based upon a consideration of the data or information under the standards set forth in 24 CFR 81.74(b) and the GSEs' written and oral objections, if any, to the proposed release of such mortgage data, AHAR information, or aggregated data;
(3) The Secretary shall provide notice in writing to each GSE of the Secretary's determination and the reasons under § 81.74(b) for his or her determination. If the Secretary determines that the mortgage data, AHAR information, or aggregated data may be released, the notice will also provide that the Secretary shall not release the mortgage data, AHAR information, or aggregated data to the public for 10 working days;
(4) The Secretary shall, no earlier than the end of the ten-working-day period referred to in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, publish an order in the
Federal Register
notifying the public of the Secretary's determination to release the mortgage data or AHAR information that has been reclassified as non-proprietary and/or to release certain non-proprietary aggregations of data derived from proprietary loan-level mortgage data. The order will also modify the list described in paragraph (a) of this section to reflect the Secretary's reclassification of the mortgage data or AHAR information. The Secretary shall omit from the published order any information that would reveal proprietary information.
[70 FR 69031, Nov. 10, 2005]
§ 81.76
FOIA requests and protection of GSE information.
(a)
General.
HUD shall process FOIA requests for information submitted to the Secretary by the GSEs in accordance with:
(1) HUD's FOIA and Privacy Act regulations, 24 CFR parts 15 and 16;
(2) 12 U.S.C. 4525, 4543, and 4546 and this subpart; and
(3) Other applicable statutes, regulations, and guidelines, including the Trade Secrets Act, 18 U.S.C. 1905, and Executive Order 12600. In responding to requests for data or information submitted by or relating to the GSEs, the Secretary may invoke provisions of these authorities to protect data or information from disclosure.
(b)
Protection of confidential business information other than mortgage data and AHAR information.
When a GSE seeks to protect from disclosure confidential business information, the GSE may seek protection of such confidential business information pursuant to the provisions of HUD's FOIA regulations at 24 CFR part 15, without regard to whether or not it is mortgage data or AHAR information.
(c)
Processing of FOIA requests
—(1)
FOIA Exemption (b)(4).
HUD will process FOIA requests for confidential business information of the GSEs to which FOIA exemption 4 may apply in accordance with 24 CFR part 15, and the predisclosure notification procedures of Executive Order 12,600.
(2)
FOIA Exemption (b)(8).
Under section 1319F of FHEFSSA, the Secretary may invoke FOIA exemption (b)(8) to withhold from the public any GSE data or information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of HUD. HUD may make data or information available for the confidential use of other government agencies in their official duties or functions, but all data or information remains the property of HUD and any unauthorized use or disclosure of such data or information may be subject to the penalties of 18 U.S.C. 641.
(3)
Other FOIA exemptions.
Under 24 CFR part 15, the Secretary may invoke other exemptions including, without limitation, exemption (b)(6) (5 U.S.C. 552(b)(6)), to protect data and information that would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(d)
Protection of information by HUD officers and employees.
The Secretary will institute all reasonable safeguards to protect data or information submitted by or relating to either GSE, including, but not limited to, advising all HUD officers and employees having access to data or information submitted by or relating to either GSE of the legal restrictions against unauthorized disclosure of such data or information under the executive branch-wide standards of ethical conduct, 5 CFR part 2635, and the Trade Secrets Act, 18 U.S.C. 1905. Officers and employees shall be advised of the penalties for unauthorized disclosure, ranging from disciplinary action under 5 CFR part 2635 to criminal prosecution.
(e)
Protection of information by contractors.
(1) In contracts and agreements entered into by HUD where contractors have access to data or information submitted by or relating to either GSE, HUD shall include detailed provisions specifying that:
(i) Neither the contractor nor any of its officers, employees, agents, or subcontractors may release data submitted by or relating to either GSE without HUD's authorization; and
(ii) Unauthorized disclosure may be a basis for:
(A) Terminating the contract for default;
(B) Suspending or debarring the contractor; and
(C) Criminal prosecution of the contractor, its officers, employees, agents,
or subcontractors under the Federal Criminal Code.
(2) Contract provisions shall require safeguards against unauthorized disclosure, including training of contractor and subcontractor agents and employees, and provide that the contractor will indemnify and hold HUD harmless against unauthorized disclosure of data or information belonging to the GSEs or HUD.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 65089, Oct. 31, 2000]
§ 81.77
Requests for GSE information on behalf of Congress, the Comptroller General, a subpoena, or other legal process.
(a)
General.
With respect to information submitted by or relating to the GSEs, nothing in this subpart F may be construed to grant authority to the Secretary under FHEFSSA to withhold any information from or to prohibit the disclosure of any information to the following persons or entities:
(1) Either House of Congress or, to the extent of matters within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, or any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee;
(2) The Comptroller General, or any of the Comptroller General's authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office;
(3) A court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to a subpoena; or
(4) As otherwise compelled by law.
(b)
Notice of proprietary or confidential nature of GSE information.
(1) In releasing data or information in response to a request as set out in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will, where applicable, include a statement with the data or information to the effect that:
(i) The GSE regards the data or information as proprietary information and/or confidential business information;
(ii) Public disclosure of the data or information may cause competitive harm to the GSE; and
(iii) The Secretary has determined that the data or information is proprietary information and/or confidential business information.
(2) To the extent practicable, the Secretary will provide notice to the GSE after a request from the persons or entities described in paragraphs (a)(1)-(4) of this section for proprietary information or confidential business information is received and before the data or information is provided in response to the request.
(c)
Procedures for requests pursuant to subpoena or other legal process.
The procedures in 24 CFR 15.71-15.74 shall be followed when a subpoena, order, or other demand of a court or other authority is issued for the production or disclosure of any GSE data or information that:
(1) Is contained in HUD's files;
(2) Relates to material contained in HUD's files; or
(3) Was acquired by any person while such person was an employee of HUD, as a part of the performance of the employee's official duties or because of the employee's official status.
(d)
Requests pursuant to subpoena or other legal process not served on HUD.
If an individual who is not a HUD employee or an entity other than HUD is served with a subpoena, order, or other demand of a court or authority for the production or disclosure of HUD data or information relating to a GSE and such data or information may not be disclosed to the public under this subpart or 24 CFR part 15, such individual or entity shall comply with 24 CFR 15.71-15.74 as if the individual or entity is a HUD employee, including immediately notifying HUD in accordance with the procedures set forth in 24 CFR 15.73(a).
(e)
Reservation of additional actions.
Nothing in this section precludes further action by the Secretary, in his or her discretion, to protect data or information submitted by a GSE from unwarranted disclosure in appropriate circumstances.

# Subpart G—Procedures for Actions and Review of Actions
§ 81.81
General.
This subpart sets forth procedures for:
(a) The Secretary to issue cease-and-desist orders and impose civil money penalties to enforce the housing goal
provisions implemented in subpart B of this part and the information submission and reporting requirements implemented in subpart E of this part; and
(b) Hearings, in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4542(c)(4)(B), on the Secretary's disapproval of new programs that the Secretary determines are not in the public interest.
§ 81.82
Cease-and-desist proceedings.
(a)
Issuance.
The Secretary may issue and serve upon a GSE a written notice of charges justifying issuance of a cease-and-desist order, if the Secretary determines the GSE:
(1) Has failed to submit, within the time prescribed in § 81.22, a housing plan that substantially complies with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c), as implemented by § 81.22;
(2) Is failing or has failed, or there is reasonable cause to believe that the GSE is about to fail, to make a good-faith effort to comply with a housing plan submitted to and approved by the Secretary; or
(3) Has failed to submit any of the information required under sections 309(m) or (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act, sections 307(e) or (f) of the Freddie Mac Act, or subpart E of this part.
(b)
Procedures
—(1)
Content of notice.
The notice of charges shall provide:
(i) A concise statement of the facts constituting the alleged misconduct and the violations with which the GSE is charged;
(ii) Notice of the GSE's right to a hearing on the record;
(iii) A time and date for a hearing on the record;
(iv) A statement of the consequences of failing to contest the matter; and
(v) The effective date of the order if the GSE does not contest the matter.
(2)
Administrative Law Judge.
A HUD Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) shall preside over any hearing conducted under this section. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with § 81.84 and, to the extent the provisions are not inconsistent with any of the procedures in this part or FHEFSSA, with 24 CFR part 26, subpart B.
(3)
Issuance of order.
If the GSE consents to the issuance of the order or the ALJ finds, based on the hearing record, that a preponderance of the evidence established the conduct specified in the notice of charges, the ALJ may issue and serve upon the GSE an order requiring the GSE to:
(i) Submit a housing plan that substantially complies with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c), as implemented by § 81.22;
(ii) Comply with a housing plan; or
(iii) Provide the information required under subpart E of this part.
(4)
Effective date.
An order under this section shall be effective as provided in 12 U.S.C. 4581(c) and § 81.84(m).
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 50218, Sept. 24, 1996]
§ 81.83
Civil money penalties.
(a)
Imposition.
The Secretary may impose a civil money penalty on a GSE that has failed:
(1) To submit, within the time prescribed in § 81.22, a housing plan that substantially complies with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c), as implemented by § 81.22;
(2) To make a good-faith effort to comply with a housing plan submitted and approved by the Secretary; or
(3) To submit any of the information required under sections 309(m) or (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act, sections 307(e) or (f) of the Freddie Mac Act, or subpart E of this part.
(b)
Amount of penalty.
The amount of the penalty shall not exceed:
(1) For any failure described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, $35,000 for each day that the failure occurs; and
(2) For any failure described in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, $16,000 for each day that the failure occurs.
(c)
Factors in determining amount of penalty.
In determining the amount of a penalty under this section, the Secretary shall consider the factors in 12 U.S.C. 4585(c)(2) including the public interest.
(d)
Procedures
—(1)
Notice of Intent.
The Secretary shall notify the GSE in writing of the Secretary's determination to impose a civil money penalty by issuing a Notice of Intent to Impose Civil Money Penalties (“Notice of Intent”). The Notice of Intent shall provide:
(i) A concise statement of the facts constituting the alleged misconduct;
(ii) The amount of the civil money penalty;
(iii) Notice of the GSE's right to a hearing on the record;
(iv) The procedures to follow to obtain a hearing;
(v) A statement of the consequences of failing to request a hearing; and
(vi) The date the penalty shall be due unless the GSE contests the matter.
(2) To appeal the Secretary's decision to impose a civil money penalty, the GSE shall, within 20 days of service of the Notice of Intent, file a written Answer with the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Hearings and Appeals, Department of Housing and Urban Development, at the address provided in the Notice of Intent.
(3)
Administrative law judge.
A HUD ALJ shall preside over any hearing conducted under this section, in accordance with § 81.84 and, to the extent the provisions are not inconsistent with any of the procedures in this part or FHEFSSA, with 24 CFR part 26, subpart B.
(4)
Issuance of order.
If the GSE consents to the issuance of the order or the ALJ finds, on the hearing record, that a preponderance of the evidence establishes the conduct specified in the notice of charges, the ALJ may issue an order imposing a civil money penalty.
(5)
Consultation with the Director.
In the Secretary's discretion, the Director of OFHEO may be requested to review any Notice of Intent, determination, order, or interlocutory ruling arising from a hearing.
(e)
Action to collect penalty.
The Secretary may request the Attorney General of the United States to bring an action to collect the penalty, in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4585(d). Interest on, and other charges for, any unpaid penalty may be assessed in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(f)
Settlement by Secretary.
The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit any civil money penalty that may be, or has been, imposed under this section.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 50218, Sept. 24, 1996; 68 FR 12788, Mar. 17, 2003; 72 FR 5588, Feb. 6, 2007; 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 81.84
Hearings.
(a)
Applicability.
The hearing procedures in this section apply to hearings on the record to review cease-and-desist orders, civil money penalties, and new programs disapproved based upon a determination by the Secretary that such programs are not in the public interest, in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4542(c)(4)(B).
(b)
Hearing requirements.
(1) Hearings shall be held in the District of Columbia.
(2) Hearings shall be conducted by a HUD ALJ authorized to conduct proceedings under 24 CFR part 26, subpart B.
(c)
Timing.
Unless an earlier or later date is requested by a GSE and the request is granted by the ALJ, a hearing shall be fixed for a date not earlier than 30 days, nor later than 60 days, after:
(1) Service of the notice of charges under § 81.82;
(2) Service of the Notice of Intent to Impose Civil Money Penalty(ies) under § 81.83; or
(3) Filing of a request for a hearing under § 81.54(b).
(d)
Procedure.
Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in 24 CFR part 26, subpart B to the extent that such provisions are not inconsistent with any of the procedures in this part or FHEFSSA.
(e)
Service
—(1)
To GSE.
Any service required or authorized to be made by the Secretary under this subpart G may be made to the Chief Executive Officer of a GSE or any other representative as the GSE may designate in writing to the Secretary.
(2)
How service may be made.
A serving party shall use one or more of the following methods of service:
(i) Personal service;
(ii) Delivering the papers to a reliable commercial courier service, overnight delivery service, or the U.S. Post Office for Express Mail Delivery; or
(iii) Transmission by electronic media, only if the parties mutually agree. The serving party shall mail an original of the filing after any proper service using electronic media.
(f)
Subpoena authority
—(1)
General.
In the course of or in connection with any
hearing, the Secretary and the ALJ shall have the authority to:
(i) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(ii) Take and preserve testimony under oath;
(iii) Issue subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum; and
(iv) Revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum issued under this paragraph (f).
(2)
Witnesses and documents.
The attendance of witnesses and the production of documents provided for in this section may be required from any place in any State. A witness may be required to appear, and a document may be required to be produced, at:
(i) The hearing; and
(ii) Any place that is designated for attendance at a deposition or production of a document under this section.
(3)
Enforcement.
In accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4588(c), the Secretary may request the Attorney General of the United States to enforce any subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued pursuant to this section. If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with all or any portion of a subpoena issued pursuant to this paragraph (f), the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved person may petition the Secretary to seek enforcement of the subpoena. A party's petition to the Secretary for enforcement of a subpoena in no way limits the sanctions that may be imposed by the ALJ on a party who fails to comply with a subpoena issued under this paragraph (f).
(4)
Fees and expenses.
Witnesses subpoenaed under this section shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States and may seek reasonable expenses and attorneys fees in any court having jurisdiction of any proceeding instituted under this section. Such expenses and fees shall be paid by the GSE or from its assets.
(g)
Failure to appear.
If a GSE fails to appear at a hearing through a duly authorized representative, the GSE shall be deemed to have consented to the issuance of the cease-and-desist order, the imposition of the penalty, or the disapproval of the new program, whichever is applicable.
(h)
Public hearings.
(1) All hearings shall be open to the public, unless the ALJ determines that an open hearing would be contrary to the public interest. Where a party makes a timely motion to close a hearing and the ALJ denies the motion, such party may file with the Secretary within 5 working days a request for a closed hearing, and any party may file a reply to such a request within 5 working days of service of such a motion. Such motions, requests, and replies are governed by § 26.38 of this title. When a request for a closed hearing has been filed with the Secretary under this paragraph (h)(1), the hearing shall be stayed until the Secretary has advised the parties and the ALJ, in writing, of the Secretary's decision on whether the hearing should be closed.
(2) Failure to file a timely motion, request or reply is deemed a waiver of any objection regarding whether the hearing will be public or closed. A party must file any motion for a closed hearing within 10 days after:
(i) Service of the notice of charges under § 81.82;
(ii) Service of the Notice of Intent to Impose Civil Money Penalt(ies) under § 81.83; or
(iii) Filing of a request for a hearing under § 81.54(b).
(i)
Decision of ALJ.
After each hearing, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision and serve the initial decision on the GSE, the Secretary, any other parties, and the HUD General Counsel. This service will constitute notification that the case has been submitted to the Secretary.
(j)
Review of initial decision
—(1)
Secretary's discretion.
The Secretary, in the Secretary's discretion, may review any initial decision.
(2)
Requested by a party.
Any party may file a notice of appeal of an initial decision to the Secretary in accordance with § 26.51(c) of this title. Any waiver of the limitations contained in § 26.51(f) of this title on the number of pages for notices of appeal and responses, of the time limitation in § 26.51(c) of this title for filing a notice of appeal of the initial decision, or any other waivers under this subpart shall not be subject to the publication requirements in 42 U.S.C. 3535(q).
(k)
Final decision.
(1) The initial decision will become the final decision unless the Secretary issues a final decision within 90 days after the initial decision is served on the Secretary.
(2)
Issuance of final decision by Secretary.
The Secretary may review any finding of fact, conclusion of law, or order contained in the initial decision of the ALJ and may issue a final decision in the proceeding. Any decision shall include findings of fact upon which the decision is predicated. The Secretary may affirm, modify, or set aside, in whole or in part, the initial decision or may remand the initial decision for further proceedings. The final decision shall be served on all parties and the ALJ.
(l)
Decisions on remand.
If the initial decision is remanded for further proceedings, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision on remand within 60 days of the date of issuance of the decision to remand, unless it is impractical to do so.
(m)
Modification.
The Secretary may modify, terminate, or set aside any order in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4582(b)(2).
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 50219 Sept. 24, 1996]
§ 81.85
Public disclosure of final orders and agreements.
(a)
Disclosure.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary shall make available to the public final orders; written agreements and statements; and modifications and terminations of those orders, agreements, and statements, as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 4586(a) and the implementing regulations in this subpart G. The retention of records of these orders, agreements, and statements, and their modifications and terminations, are governed by 12 U.S.C. 4586(e).
(b)
Exceptions to disclosure.
Exceptions to disclosure will be determined in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4586 (c), (d), and (f) and paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Filing documents under seal
—(1)
Request by party.
Upon the denial by the ALJ of a motion for a protective order, any party may request the Secretary to file any document or part of a document under seal if the party believes that disclosure of the document would be contrary to the public interest. Any other party may file with the Secretary a reply to such a request within 5 working days after a request is made or some other time to be determined by the Secretary. Such requests and replies are governed by § 26.38 of this title.
(2)
Effect of request.
A document or part of a document that is the subject of a timely request to the Secretary to file under seal will not be disclosed under this section until the Secretary has advised the parties and the ALJ, in writing, of the Secretary's decision on whether the document or part of a document should be filed under seal. The ALJ shall take all appropriate steps to preserve the confidentiality of such documents or parts of documents, including closing portions of the hearing to the public.
(3)
Time of request.
Failure to file with the Secretary a timely request or a reply is deemed a waiver of any objection regarding the decision on whether a document is to be disclosed. A party must make its request to file a document under seal at least 10 days before the commencement of the hearing. A request may be filed at any other time before or during the course of the hearing, but the requesting party's obligation to produce the document or parts of the document will not be affected by the party's pending request to the Secretary, unless the Secretary expressly directs the ALJ to treat the document as protected from disclosure until the Secretary makes a final written decision on whether the document should be filed under seal. If the Secretary's direction to the ALJ is made orally, that direction must be reduced to writing and filed with the ALJ within 3 working days of the making of the oral order or the document will then be subject to disclosure pending the Secretary's final written decision on disclosure.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 50219 Sept. 24, 1996]
§ 81.86
Enforcement and jurisdiction.
If a GSE fails to comply with a final decision, the Secretary may request the Attorney General of the United States to bring an action in the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia for the enforcement of the notice or order. Such request may be made:
(a)
For a cease-and-desist order:
(1) Upon expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the service of the order on the GSE; or
(2) Upon the effective time specified in an order issued upon consent; and
(b)
For a civil money penalty,
when the order imposing the penalty is no longer subject to review under 12 U.S.C. 4582 and 4583 and the implementing regulations at §§ 81.84 and 81.87.
§ 81.87
Judicial review.
(a)
Commencement.
In a proceeding under 12 U.S.C. 4581 or 4585, as implemented by §§ 81.82 or 81.83, a GSE that is a party to the proceeding may obtain review of any final order issued under § 81.84 by filing in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, within 30 days after the date of service of such order, a written petition praying that the order of the Secretary be modified, terminated, or set aside.
(b)
Filing of record.
Upon receiving a copy of a petition, the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Hearings and Appeals, shall file in the court the record in the proceeding, as provided in 28 U.S.C. 2112.
(c)
No automatic stay.
The commencement of proceedings for judicial review under this section shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of any order issued by the Secretary.
[60 FR 61888, Dec. 1, 1995, as amended at 87 FR 8197, Feb. 14, 2022]

# Subpart H—Book-Entry Procedures

# Source:
61 FR 63948, Dec. 2, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 81.91
Maintenance of GSE Securities.
A GSE Security may be maintained in the form of a Definitive GSE Security or a Book-entry GSE Security. A Book-entry GSE Security shall be maintained in the Book-entry System.
§ 81.92
Law governing rights and obligations of United States, Federal Reserve Banks, and GSEs; rights of any Person against United States, Federal Reserve Banks, and GSEs; Law governing other interests.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following rights and obligations are governed solely by the book-entry regulations contained in this subpart H, the Securities Documentation, and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars (but not including any choice of law provisions in the Security Documentation to the extent such provisions conflict with the Book-entry regulations contained in this subpart H):
(1) The rights and obligations of a GSE and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry GSE Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the Book-entry System as it applies to GSE Securities; and
(2) The rights of any Person, including a Participant, against a GSE and the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry GSE Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the Book-entry System as it applies to GSE Securities;
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Participant and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 81.93(c)(1), is governed by the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction where the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Participant's Securities Account is located. A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Person that is not a Participant, and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 81.93(c)(1), is governed by the law determined in the manner specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) If the jurisdiction specified in the first sentence of paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8, then the law specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall be the law of that State as
though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State.
(d) To the extent not otherwise inconsistent with this subpart H, and notwithstanding any provision in the Security Documentation setting forth a choice of law, the provisions set forth in 31 CFR 357.11 regarding law governing other interests apply and shall be read as though modified to effectuate the application of 31 CFR 357.11 to the GSEs.
[61 FR 63948, Dec. 2, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28977, May 29, 1997]
§ 81.93
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; security interests.
(a) A Participant's Security Entitlement is created when a Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book-entry that a Book-entry GSE Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement of a Participant in favor of the United States to secure deposits of public money, including without limitation deposits to the Treasury tax and loan accounts, or other security interest in favor of the United States that is required by Federal statute, regulation, or agreement, and that is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank is thereby effected and perfected, and has priority over any other interest in the securities. Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized representative of the United States directing the transfer of the security. For purposes of this paragraph, an “authorized representative of the United States” is the official designated in the applicable regulations or agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.
(c)(1) A GSE and the Federal Reserve Banks have no obligation to agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person except to the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation or to the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded. To the extent required by such law or regulation or set forth in an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank, or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, a GSE, or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank marking its books to record the security interest. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank shall have priority over any other interest in the securities.
(2) In addition to the method provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a security interest, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, may be perfected by any method by which a security interest may be perfected under applicable law as described in § 81.92(b) or (d). The perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest are governed by such applicable law. A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a clearing corporation in all respects under such law, including with respect to the effect of perfection and priority of such security interest. A Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for such purposes.
[61 FR 63948, Dec. 2, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28977, May 29, 1997]
§ 81.94
Obligations of GSEs; no adverse claims.
(a) Except in the case of a security interest in favor of the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise as provided in § 81.93(c)(1), for the purposes of this subpart H, the GSE and the Federal Reserve Banks shall treat the Participant to whose Securities Account an interest in a Book-entry GSE Security has been credited as the person exclusively entitled to issue a Transfer Message, to receive interest and other payments with respect thereof and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers with respect to such
Security, notwithstanding any information or notice to the contrary. Neither the Federal Reserve Banks nor a GSE is liable to a Person asserting or having an adverse claim to a Security Entitlement or to a Book-entry GSE Security in a Participant's Securities Account, including any such claim arising as a result of the transfer or disposition of a Book-entry GSE Security by a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to a Transfer Message that the Federal Reserve Bank reasonably believes to be genuine.
(b) The obligation of the GSE to make payments (including payments of interest and principal) with respect to Book-entry GSE Securities is discharged at the time payment in the appropriate amount is made as follows:
(1) Interest or other payments on Book-entry GSE Securities is either credited by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Funds Account maintained at such Bank or otherwise paid as directed by the Participant.
(2) Book-entry GSE Securities are redeemed in accordance with their terms by a Federal Reserve Bank withdrawing the securities from the Participant's Securities Account in which they are maintained and by either crediting the amount of the redemption proceeds, including both redemption proceeds, where applicable, to a Funds Account at such Bank or otherwise paying such redemption proceeds as directed by the Participant. No action by the Participant ordinarily is required in connection with the redemption of a Book-entry GSE Security.
[61 FR 63948, Dec. 2, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28977, May 28, 1997]
§ 81.95
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks.
(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank is hereby authorized as fiscal agent of the GSEs to perform the following functions with respect to the issuance of Book-entry GSE Securities offered and sold by a GSE to which this subpart H applies, in accordance with the Securities Documentation, Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars, this subpart H, and procedures established by the Secretary consistent with these authorities:
(1) To service and maintain Book-entry GSE Securities in accounts established for such purposes;
(2) To make payments with respect to such securities, as directed by the GSE;
(3) To effect transfer of Book-entry GSE Securities between Participants' Securities Accounts as directed by the Participants;
(4) To effect conversions between Book-entry GSE Securities and Definitive GSE Securities with respect to those securities as to which conversion rights are available pursuant to the applicable Securities Documentation; and
(5) To perform such other duties as fiscal agent as may be requested by the GSE.
(b) Each Federal Reserve Bank may issue Operating Circulars not inconsistent with this subpart H, governing the details of its handling of Book-entry GSE Securities, Security Entitlements, and the operation of the book-entry system under this subpart H.
§ 81.96
Withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry GSE Securities for conversion to definitive form.
(a) Eligible Book-entry GSE Securities may be withdrawn from the Book-entry System by requesting delivery of like Definitive GSE Securities.
(b) A Reserve bank shall, upon receipt of appropriate instructions to withdraw Eligible Book-entry GSE Securities from book-entry in the Book-entry System, convert such securities into Definitive GSE Securities and deliver them in accordance with such instructions. No such conversion shall affect existing interests in such GSE Securities.
(c) All requests for withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry GSE Securities must be made prior to the maturity or date of call of the securities.
(d) GSE Securities which are to be delivered upon withdrawal may be issued in either registered or bearer form, to the extent permitted by the applicable Securities Documentation.
[61 FR 63948, Dec. 2, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28977, May 29, 1997]
§ 81.97
Waiver of regulations.
The Secretary reserves the right in the Secretary's discretion, to waive any provision(s) of these regulations in any case or class of cases for the convenience of a GSE, the United States, or in order to relieve any person(s) of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not adversely affect any substantial existing rights, and the Secretary is satisfied that such action will not subject a GSE or the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
§ 81.98
Liability of GSEs and Federal Reserve Banks.
A GSE and the Federal Reserve Banks may rely on the information provided in a Transfer Message, and are not required to verify the information. A GSE and the Federal Reserve Banks shall not be liable for any action taken in accordance with the information set out in a Transfer Message, or evidence submitted in support thereof.
§ 81.99
Additional provisions.
(a)
Additional requirements.
In any case or any class of cases arising under these regulations, a GSE may require such additional evidence and a bond of indemnity, with or without surety, as may in the judgment of the GSE be necessary for the protection of the interests of the GSE.
(b)
Notice of attachment for GSE Securities in Book-entry system.
The interest of a debtor in a Security Entitlement may be reached by a creditor only by legal process upon the Securities Intermediary with whom the debtor's securities account is maintained, except where a Security Entitlement is maintained in the name of a secured party, in which case the debtor's interest may be reached by legal process upon the secured party. These regulations do not purport to establish whether a Federal Reserve Bank is required to honor an order or other notice of attachment in any particular case or class of cases.

# Subpart I—Other Provisions
§ 81.101
Equal employment opportunity.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac shall comply with sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order 11478 (3 CFR, 1966-1970 Compilation, p. 803), as amended by Executive Order 12106, (3 CFR, 1978, Compilation, p. 263), providing for the adoption and implementation of equal employment opportunity, as required by section 1216 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 1833e).
§ 81.102
Verification and enforcement to ensure GSE data integrity.
(a)
Independent verification authority.
The Secretary may independently verify the accuracy and completeness of the data, information, and reports provided by each GSE, including conducting on-site verification, when such steps are reasonably related to determining whether a GSE is complying with 12 U.S.C. 4541-4589 and the GSE's Charter Act.
(b)
Certification.
(1) The senior officer of each GSE who is responsible for submitting to HUD the fourth quarter Annual Mortgage Report and the AHAR under sections 309(m) and (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act or sections 307(e) and (f) of the Freddie Mac Act, as applicable, or for submitting to the Secretary such other report(s), data, or information for which certification is requested in writing by the Secretary, shall certify such report(s), data or information.
(2) The certification shall state as follows: “To the best of my knowledge and belief, the information provided herein is true, correct and complete.”
(3) If the Secretary determines that a GSE has failed to provide the certification required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, or that a GSE has provided the certification required by paragraph (b) in connection with data, information or report(s) that the Secretary later determines are not true, correct and complete, the Secretary may pursue the enforcement remedies under paragraph (e) of this section. For data, information or report(s) subject to paragraphs (c) or (d)
of this section, the Secretary may pursue the enforcement remedies described in paragraph (e) only in connection with material errors, omissions or discrepancies as those terms are defined in § 81.102(c) or (d).
(c)
Verification procedure and adjustment to correct errors, omissions or discrepancies in AHAR data for the immediately preceding year.
(1) This paragraph (c) pertains to the GSEs' submission of year-end data. For purposes of this paragraph, “year-end data” means data that HUD receives from the GSEs related to housing goals performance in the immediately preceding year and covering data reported in the fourth quarter Annual Mortgage Report and the GSE's AHAR. An “error” means a technical mistake, such as a mistake in coding or calculating data. An “omission” means a GSE's failure to count units in the denominator. A “discrepancy” means any difference between HUD's analysis of data and the analysis contained in a GSE's submission of data, including a discrepancy in goal or Special Affordable subgoal performance.
(2) If HUD finds errors, omissions or discrepancies in a GSE's year-end data submissions relative to HUD's regulations, HUD will first notify the GSE by telephone or e-mail transmission of each such error, omission or discrepancy. The GSE must respond within five working days of each such notification. HUD may, in its discretion or upon a request by a GSE within the five working day period, extend the response period for up to an additional 20 working days. Information exchanges during the five working day period following initial notification, and any subsequent extensions of time that may be granted, may be by electronic mail. Any person with delegated authority from the Secretary, or the Director of HUD's Financial Institution Regulation Division, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for issuing initial notifications regarding errors, omissions, or discrepancies; making determinations on the adequacy of responses received; approving any extensions of time permitted under this provision; and managing the data verification process.
(3) If each error, omission or discrepancy is not resolved to HUD's satisfaction during the initial five working day period from notification, and any extension period, the Secretary will notify the GSE in writing and seek clarification or additional information to correct the error, omission or discrepancy. The GSE shall have 10 working days (or such longer period as the Secretary may establish, not to exceed 30 working days) from the date of the Secretary's written notice to respond in writing to the notice. If the GSE fails to submit a written response to the Secretary within this period, or if the Secretary determines that the GSE's written response fails to correct or otherwise resolve each error, omission or discrepancy in its reported year-end data to the Secretary's satisfaction, the Secretary will determine the appropriate adjustments to the numerator and the denominator of the applicable housing goal(s) and Special Affordable subgoal(s) due to the GSE's failure to provide the Secretary with accurate submissions of data.
(4) The Secretary, or his or her designee, shall inform a GSE in writing, at least five working days prior to HUD's release of its official performance figures to the public, of HUD's determination of official goals performance figures, including any adjustments. During the five working days prior to such public release, a GSE may request, in writing, a reconsideration of HUD's final determination of its performance and must provide the basis for requesting the reconsideration. If the request is granted, the Secretary will consider the GSE's request for reconsideration of its determination of goals performance and make a final determination regarding the GSE's performance, within 10 working days of the Secretary's granting of the GSE's written request for reconsideration.
(5) Should the Secretary determine that additional enforcement action against the GSE is warranted for material errors, omissions or discrepancies with regard to a housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal, it may pursue additional remedies under paragraph (e) of this section. An error, omission or discrepancy is material if it results in an overstatement of credit for a
housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal, and, without such overstatement, the GSE would have failed to meet such housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal for the immediately preceding year.
(d)
Adjustment to correct prior year reporting errors, omissions or discrepancies
—(1)
General.
The Secretary may require a GSE to correct a material error, omission or discrepancy in a GSE's prior year's data reported in the fourth quarter Annual Mortgage Report and the GSE's AHAR under sections 309(m) and (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act or sections 307(e) and (f) of the Freddie Mac Act, as applicable. An error, omission or discrepancy is material if it results in an overstatement of credit for a housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal and, without such overstatement, the GSE would have failed to meet such housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal for the prior year. A “prior year” for purposes of this section is any one of the two years immediately preceding the latest year for which data on housing goals performance was reported to HUD.
(2)
Procedural requirements.
In the event the Secretary determines that a GSE's prior year's fourth quarter Annual Mortgage Report or AHAR contain a material error, omission or discrepancy, the Secretary will provide the GSE with an initial letter containing written findings and determinations within 24 months of the end of the relevant GSE reporting year. The GSE shall have an opportunity, not to exceed 30 days from the date of receipt of the Secretary's initial letter, to respond in writing with supporting documentation, to contest the Secretary's initial determination that there was a material error, omission or discrepancy in a prior year's data. The Secretary shall then issue a final determination letter within 60 days of the date of HUD's receipt of the GSE's written response or, if no response is received, within 90 days of the date of the GSE's receipt of the Secretary's initial letter. The Secretary may extend the period for issuing a final determination letter by an additional 30 days and may grant the GSE an opportunity, for a period not to exceed 10 working days from the date of the GSE's receipt of the determination letter to request that the determination be reconsidered.
(3) If the Secretary determines that a GSE's prior year's fourth quarter Annual Mortgage Report or AHAR contained a material error, omission or discrepancy, the Secretary may direct the GSE to correct the overstatement by purchasing mortgages to finance the number of units that HUD has determined were overstated in the prior year's goal performance (or, for the Special Affordable subgoal, the number or dollar amount, as applicable, of mortgage purchases that HUD has determined were overstated), or that equal the percentage of the overstatement in the prior year's goal or Special Affordable subgoal performance as applied to the most current year-end performance, whichever is less. Units or mortgages purchased to remedy an overstatement in the housing goals or the Special Affordable subgoal must be eligible to qualify under the same goal or Special Affordable subgoal that HUD has determined were overstated in the prior year.
(4) If a GSE does not purchase a sufficient amount or type of mortgages to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(3) of this section as directed by the Secretary by no later than the end of the calendar year immediately following the year in which the Secretary notifies the GSE of such overstatement (unless, upon written request from the GSE, the Secretary, in his or her discretion, determines that a grant of additional time is appropriate to correct or compensate for the overstatement) the Department may pursue any or all of the following remedies:
(i) Issue a notice that the GSE has failed a housing goal or Special Affordable subgoal in the prior year;
(ii) Seek additional enforcement remedies under paragraph (e) of this section;
(iii) Pursue any other civil or administrative remedies as are available to it.
(e)
Additional enforcement options
—(1)
General.
In the event the Secretary determines, either as a result of his or her independent verification authority
described in paragraph (a) of this section, or by the authority set forth in paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of this section, that any of the following circumstances has occurred with respect to data, information or report(s) required by sections 309(m) or (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act, sections 307(e) or (f) of the Freddie Mac Act, or subpart E of this part, the Secretary may regard this as a GSE's failure to submit such data, information or report(s) and, accordingly, the Secretary may take the additional enforcement actions authorized by paragraph (e)(2) of this section:
(i) A GSE fails to submit the certification required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section in connection with such data, information or report(s); or
(ii) A GSE submits the certification required by paragraph (b) of this section, but the Secretary later determines that the data, information or report(s) are not true, correct and complete. For data, information or report(s) subject to paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, the Secretary may pursue the additional enforcement remedies under paragraph (e)(2) only in connection with material errors, omissions or discrepancies, as those terms are defined in § 81.102(c) or (d). In addition, the Secretary may only pursue such remedies in connection with material errors, omissions or discrepancies arising under paragraph (d) of this section if the GSE has failed to purchase a sufficient amount or type of mortgages, as provided in paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section.
(2)
Remedies.
(i)
Submissions required under the GSE's charter acts.
After the Secretary makes a determination under paragraph (e)(1) of this section that any of the circumstances described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) or (ii) has occurred with respect to data, information, or report(s) required by sections 309(m) or (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act, or by sections 307(e) or (f) of the Freddie Mac Act, the Secretary may pursue any or all of the following remedies in accordance with paragraph (e)(3), or applicable law, as appropriate:
(A) A cease-and-desist order against the GSE for failing to submit the required data, information or report(s) in accordance with this section;
(B) Civil money penalties against the GSE for failing to submit the required data, information or report(s) in accordance with this section;
(C) Any other civil or administrative remedies or penalties against the GSE that may be available to the Secretary by virtue of the GSE's failing to submit or certify the required data, information or report(s) in accordance with this section.
(ii)
Submissions required under subpart E of this part.
After the Secretary makes a determination under paragraph (e)(1) of this section that any of the circumstances described in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) or (ii) has occurred with respect to data, information or report(s) required under subpart E of this part (but that are not required by sections 309(m) or (n) of the Fannie Mae Charter Act or by sections 307(e) or (f) of the Freddie Mac Act), the Secretary may pursue any civil or administrative remedies or penalties against the GSE that may be available to the Secretary. The Secretary shall pursue such remedies under applicable law.
(3)
Procedures.
The Secretary shall comply with the procedures set forth in subpart G of this part in connection with any enforcement action that he or she may initiate against a GSE under paragraph (e) of this section.
[69 FR 63642, Nov. 2, 2004]
Pt. 84

# PART 84—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION, HOSPITALS, AND OTHER NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
59 FR 47011, Sept. 13, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 84.1
Applicability of and cross reference to 2 CFR part 200.
(a) Federal awards to institutions of higher education, hospitals and other non-profit organizations are subject to
the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200.
(b) Federal awards made prior to December 26, 2014 will continue to be governed by the regulations in effect and codified in 24 CFR part 84 (2013 edition) or as provided under the terms of the Federal award. Where the terms of a Federal award made prior to December 26, 2014, state that the award will be subject to regulations as may be amended, the Federal award shall be subject to 2 CFR part 200.
[79 FR 76078, Dec. 19, 2014]
Pt. 85

# PART 85—ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS TO STATE, LOCAL AND FEDERALLY RECOGNIZED INDIAN TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
53 FR 8068, 8087, Mar. 11, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 85.1
Applicability of and cross reference to 2 CFR part 200.
(a) Federal awards with State, local and Indian tribal governments are subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200.
(b) Federal awards made prior to December 26, 2014 will continue to be governed by the regulations in effect and codified in 24 CFR part 85 (2013 edition) or as provided by the terms of the Federal award. Where the terms of a Federal award made prior to December 26, 2014, state that the award will be subject to regulations as may be amended, the Federal award shall be subject to 2 CFR part 200.
[79 FR 76079, Dec. 19, 2014]
Pt. 87

# PART 87—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
87.100
Conditions on use of funds.
87.105
Definitions.
87.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
87.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
87.205
Professional and technical services.
87.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
87.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
87.400
Penalties.
87.405
Penalty procedures.
87.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
87.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
87.600
Semi-annual compilation.
87.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 87—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 87—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 1 note; 31 U.S.C. 1352; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6750, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
See also OMB notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Subpart A—General
§ 87.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative ageement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a
certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 87.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 87.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000 or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000 or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater.
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.
[55 FR 6737, 6750, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 5321, Feb. 4, 1994]

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 87.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 87.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and
legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Pub. L. 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 87.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 87.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 87.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 87.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 87.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 87.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 87.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $24,496 and not more than $244,958 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B to this part) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $24,496 and not more than $244,958 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for
a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $24,496, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $24,496 and $244,958, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
[55 FR 6737, 6750, Feb. 26, 1990, as amended at 81 FR 38935, June 15, 2016; 82 FR 24525, May 30, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 32793, July 16, 2018; 84 FR 9454, Mar. 15, 2019; 85 FR 13044, Mar. 6, 2020; 86 FR 14373, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 24421, Apr. 26, 2022; 88 FR 9748, Feb. 15, 2023; 89 FR 13617, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 87.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 87.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 87.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 87.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 87.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 87, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 87—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 87, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 87—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC12OC91.004
EC12OC91.005
EC12OC91.006
Pt. 91

# PART 91—CONSOLIDATED SUBMISSIONS FOR COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
91.1
Purpose.
91.2
Applicability.
91.5
Definitions.
91.10
Consolidated program year.
91.15
Submission date.
91.20
Exceptions.

# Subpart B—Citizen Participation and Consultation
91.100
Consultation; local governments.
91.105
Citizen participation plan; local governments.
91.110
Consultation; states.
91.115
Citizen participation plan; States.

# Subpart C—Local Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
91.200
General.
91.205
Housing and homeless needs assessment.
91.210
Housing market analysis.
91.215
Strategic plan.
91.220
Action plan.
91.225
Certifications.
91.230
Monitoring.
91.235
Special case; abbreviated consolidated plan.
91.236
Special case; District of Columbia.

# Subpart D—State Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
91.300
General.
91.305
Housing and homeless needs assessment.
91.310
Housing market analysis.
91.315
Strategic plan.
91.320
Action plan.
91.325
Certifications.
91.330
Monitoring.

# Subpart E—Consortia; Contents of Consolidated Plan
91.400
Applicability.
91.401
Citizen participation plan.
91.402
Consolidated program year.
91.405
Housing and homeless needs assessment.
91.410
Housing market analysis.
91.415
Strategic plan.
91.420
Action plan.
91.425
Certifications.
91.430
Monitoring.

# Subpart F—Other General Requirements
91.500
HUD approval action.
91.505
Amendments to the consolidated plan.
91.510
Consistency determinations.
91.515
Funding determinations by HUD.
91.520
Performance reports.
91.525
Performance review by HUD.
91.600
Waiver authority.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 3535(d), 3601-3619, 5301-5315, 11331-11388, 12701-12711, 12741-12756, and 12901-12912.

# Source:
60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 91.1
Purpose.
(a)
Overall goals.
(1) The overall goal of the community planning and development programs covered by this part is to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and expanding economic opportunities principally for low- and moderate-income persons. The primary means towards this end is to extend and strengthen partnerships among all levels of government and the private sector, including for-profit and non-profit organizations, in the production and operation of affordable housing.
(i) Decent housing includes assisting homeless persons to obtain appropriate housing and assisting persons at risk of becoming homeless; retention of the affordable housing stock; and increasing the availability of permanent housing in standard condition and affordable cost to low-income and moderate-income families, particularly to members of disadvantaged minorities, without discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, or disability. Decent housing also includes increasing the supply of supportive housing, which combines structural features and services needed to enable persons with special needs, including persons with HIV/AIDS and their families, to live with dignity and independence; and providing housing affordable to low-income persons accessible to job opportunities.
(ii) A suitable living environment includes improving the safety and livability of neighborhoods; increasing access to quality public and private facilities and services; reducing the isolation of income groups within a community or geographical area through the spatial deconcentration of housing opportunities for persons of lower income and the revitalization of deteriorating or deteriorated neighborhoods; restoring and preserving properties of special historic, architectural, or aesthetic value; and conservation of energy resources.
(iii) Expanded economic opportunities includes job creation and retention; establishment, stabilization and expansion of small businesses (including microbusinesses); the provision of public services concerned with employment; the provision of jobs involved in carrying out activities under programs covered by this plan to low-income persons living in areas affected by those programs and activities; availability of mortgage financing for low-income persons at reasonable rates using nondiscriminatory lending practices; access to capital and credit for development activities that promote the long-term economic and social viability of the community; and empowerment and self-sufficiency opportunities for low-income persons to reduce generational poverty in federally assisted and public housing.
(2) The consolidated submission described in this part 91 requires the jurisdiction to state in one document its plan to pursue these goals for all the community planning and development programs, as well as for housing programs. It is these goals against which the plan and the jurisdiction's performance under the plan will be evaluated by HUD.
(b)
Functions of plan.
The consolidated plan serves the following functions:
(1) A planning document for the jurisdiction, which builds on a participatory process among citizens, organizations, businesses, and other stakeholders;
(2) A submission for federal funds under HUD's formula grant programs for jurisdictions;
(3) A strategy to be followed in carrying out HUD programs; and
(4) A management tool for assessing performance and tracking results.
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6961, Feb. 9, 2006]
§ 91.2
Applicability.
(a) The following formula grant programs are covered by the consolidated plan:
(1) The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) programs (see 24 CFR part 570, subparts D and I);
(2) The Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) program (see 24 CFR part 576);
(3) The HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) program (see 24 CFR part 92);
(4) The Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program (see 24 CFR part 574); and
(5) The Housing Trust Fund (HTF) program (see 24 CFR part 93).
(b) The following programs require either that the jurisdiction receiving funds directly from HUD have a consolidated plan that is approved by HUD or that the application for HUD funds contain a certification that the application is consistent with a HUD-approved consolidated plan:
(1) The HOPE I Public Housing Homeownership (HOPE I) program (see 24 CFR Subtitle A, Appendix A);
(2) The HOPE II Homeownership of Multifamily Units (HOPE II) program (see 24 CFR Subtitle A, Appendix B);
(3) The HOPE III Homeownership of Single Family Homes (HOPE III) program (see 24 CFR part 572);
(4) The Low-Income Housing Preservation (prepayment avoidance incentives) program, when administered by a State agency (see 24 CFR 248.177);
(5) The Supportive Housing for the Elderly (Section 202) program (see 24 CFR part 889);
(6) The Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program (see 24 CFR part 890);
(7) The Supportive Housing program (see 24 CFR part 583);
(8) The Single Room Occupancy Housing (SRO) program (see 24 CFR part 882, subpart H);
(9) The Shelter Plus Care program (see 24 CFR part 582);
(10) The Community Development Block Grant program—Small Cities (see 24 CFR part 570, subpart F);
(11) HOME program reallocations;
(12) Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing (section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, (42 U.S.C. 1437
et seq.
));
(13) Hope for Youth: Youthbuild (see 24 CFR part 585);
(14) The John Heinz Neighborhood Development program (see 24 CFR part 594);
(15) The “Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Program (see 42 U.S.C. 4852(o));”
(16) Grants for Regulatory Barrier Removal Strategies and Implementation (section 1204, Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 12705c)); and
(17) Competitive grants under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program (see 24 CFR part 574).
(c) Other programs do not require consistency with an approved consolidated plan. However, HUD funding allocations for the Section 8 Voucher Programs are to be made in a way that enables participating jurisdictions to carry out their consolidated plans.
(d) The Public Housing Agency Plan submission (PHA Plan) (see 24 CFR part 903) includes a certification by the appropriate state or local official that the PHA Plan is consistent with the applicable consolidated plan for the jurisdiction in which the public housing agency is located and must describe the manner in which the applicable contents of the PHA Plan are consistent with the consolidated plan.
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 16379, Mar. 30, 1995; 64 FR 50223, Sept. 15, 1999; 71 FR 6961, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75966, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 5219, Jan. 30, 2015; 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]
§ 91.5
Definitions.
The terms Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing, elderly person, and HUD are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
At risk of homelessness.
(1) An individual or family who:
(i) Has an annual income below 30 percent of median family income for the area, as determined by HUD;
(ii) Does not have sufficient resources or support networks,
e.g.,
family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, immediately available to prevent them from moving to an emergency shelter or another place described in paragraph (1) of the “Homeless” definition in this section; and
(iii) Meets one of the following conditions:
(A) Has moved because of economic reasons two or more times during the 60 days immediately preceding the application for homelessness prevention assistance;
(B) Is living in the home of another because of economic hardship;
(C) Has been notified in writing that their right to occupy their current housing or living situation will be terminated within 21 days after the date of application for assistance;
(D) Lives in a hotel or motel and the cost of the hotel or motel stay is not paid by charitable organizations or by federal, State, or local government programs for low-income individuals;
(E) Lives in a single-room occupancy or efficiency apartment unit in which there reside more than two persons or lives in a larger housing unit in which there reside more than 1.5 people per room, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau;
(F) Is exiting a publicly funded institution, or system of care (such as a health-care facility, a mental health facility, foster care or other youth facility, or correction program or institution); or
(G) Otherwise lives in housing that has characteristics associated with instability and an increased risk of homelessness, as identified in the recipient's approved consolidated plan;
(2) A child or youth who does not qualify as “homeless” under this section, but qualifies as “homeless” under section 387(3) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5732a(3)), section 637(11) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832(11)), section 41403(6) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e-2(6)), section 330(h)(5)(A) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(h)(5)(A)), section 3(m) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2012(m)), or section
17(b)(15) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(b)(15)); or
(3) A child or youth who does not qualify as “homeless” under this section, but qualifies as “homeless” under section 725(2) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2)), and the parent(s) or guardian(s) of that child or youth if living with her or him.
Certification.
A written assertion, based on supporting evidence, that must be kept available for inspection by HUD, by the Inspector General of HUD, and by the public. The assertion shall be deemed to be accurate unless HUD determines otherwise, after inspecting the evidence and providing due notice and opportunity for comment.
Chronically homeless
means:
(1) A “homeless individual with a disability,” as defined in section 401(9) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11360(9)), who:
(i) Lives in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or in an emergency shelter; and
(ii) Has been homeless and living as described in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition continuously for at least 12 months or on at least 4 separate occasions in the last 3 years, as long as the combined occasions equal at least 12 months and each break in homelessness separating the occasions included at least 7 consecutive nights of not living as described in paragraph (1)(i). Stays in institutional care facilities for fewer than 90 days will not constitute as a break in homelessness, but rather such stays are included in the 12-month total, as long as the individual was living or residing in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or an emergency shelter immediately before entering the institutional care facility;
(2) An individual who has been residing in an institutional care facility, including a jail, substance abuse or mental health treatment facility, hospital, or other similar facility, for fewer than 90 days and met all of the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition, before entering that facility; or
(3) A family with an adult head of household (or if there is no adult in the family, a minor head of household) who meets all of the criteria in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition, including a family whose composition has fluctuated while the head of household has been homeless.
Consolidated plan
or (“the plan”). The document that is submitted to HUD that serves as the comprehensive housing affordability strategy, community development plan, and submissions for funding under any of the Community Planning and Development formula grant programs (e.g., CDBG, ESG, HOME, and HOPWA), that is prepared in accordance with the process described in this part.
Consortium.
An organization of geographically contiguous units of general local government that are acting as a single unit of general local government for purposes of the HOME program (see 24 CFR part 92).
Continuum of Care.
The group composed of representatives of relevant organizations, which generally includes nonprofit homeless providers, victim service providers, faith-based organizations, governments, businesses, advocates, public housing agencies, school districts, social service providers, mental health agencies, hospitals, universities, affordable housing developers, law enforcement, organizations that serve homeless and formerly homeless veterans, and homeless and formerly homeless persons that are organized to plan for and provide, as necessary, a system of outreach, engagement, and assessment; emergency shelter; rapid re-housing; transitional housing; permanent housing; and prevention strategies to address the various needs of homeless persons and persons at risk of homelessness for a specific geographic area.
Cost burden.
The extent to which gross housing costs, including utility costs, exceed 30 percent of gross income, based on data available from the U.S. Census Bureau.
Emergency shelter.
Any facility, the primary purpose of which is to provide a temporary shelter for the homeless in general or for specific populations of the homeless, and which does not require occupants to sign leases or occupancy agreements.
Extremely low-income family.
Family whose income is between 0 and 30 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 30 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes.
Homeless.
(1) An individual or family who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence, meaning:
(i) An individual or family with a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings, including a car, park, abandoned building, bus or train station, airport, or camping ground;
(ii) An individual or family living in a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designated to provide temporary living arrangements (including congregate shelters, transitional housing, and hotels and motels paid for by charitable organizations or by federal, state, or local government programs for low-income individuals); or
(iii) An individual who is exiting an institution where he or she resided for 90 days or less and who resided in an emergency shelter or place not meant for human habitation immediately before entering that institution;
(2) An individual or family who will imminently lose their primary nighttime residence, provided that:
(i) The primary nighttime residence will be lost within 14 days of the date of application for homeless assistance;
(ii) No subsequent residence has been identified; and
(iii) The individual or family lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks needed to obtain other permanent housing;
(3) Unaccompanied youth under 25 years of age, or families with children and youth, who do not otherwise qualify as homeless under this definition, but who:
(i) Are defined as homeless under section 387 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5732a), section 637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832), section 41403 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14043e-2), section 330(h) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(h)), section 3 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2012), section 17(b) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(b)), or section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a);
(ii) Have not had a lease, ownership interest, or occupancy agreement in permanent housing at any time during the 60 days immediately preceding the date of application for homeless assistance;
(iii) Have experienced persistent instability as measured by two moves or more during the 60-day period immediately preceding the date of applying for homeless assistance; and
(iv) Can be expected to continue in such status for an extended period of time because of chronic disabilities, chronic physical health or mental health conditions, substance addiction, histories of domestic violence or childhood abuse (including neglect), the presence of a child or youth with a disability, or two or more barriers to employment, which include the lack of a high school degree or General Education Development (GED), illiteracy, low English proficiency, a history of incarceration or detention for criminal activity, and a history of unstable employment; or
(4) Any individual or family who:
(i) Is fleeing, or is attempting to flee, domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or other dangerous or life-threatening conditions that relate to violence against the individual or a family member, including a child, that has either taken place within the individual's or family's primary nighttime residence or has made the individual or family afraid to return to their primary nighttime residence;
(ii) Has no other residence; and
(iii) Lacks the resources or support networks, e.g., family, friends, faith-based or other social networks, to obtain other permanent housing.
Homeless Management Information System (HMIS).
The information system designated by the Continuum of Care
to comply with HUD's data collection, management, and reporting standards and used to collect client-level data and data on the provision of housing and services to homeless individuals and families and persons at risk of homelessness.
Homeless person.
A youth (17 years or younger) not accompanied by an adult (18 years or older) or an adult without children, who is homeless (not imprisoned or otherwise detained pursuant to an Act of Congress or a State law), including the following:
(1) An individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence; and
(2) An individual who has a primary nighttime residence that is:
(i) A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designed to provide temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate shelters, and transitional housing for the mentally ill);
(ii) An institution that provides a temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized; or
(iii) A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings.
Jurisdiction.
A State or unit of general local government.
Large family.
Family of five or more persons.
Lead-based paint hazards
means lead-based paint hazards as defined in part 35, subpart B of this title.
Low-income families.
Low-income families whose incomes do not exceed 50 percent of the median family income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 50 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes.
Middle-income family.
Family whose income is between 80 percent and 95 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 95 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes. (This corresponds to the term “moderate income family” under the CHAS statute, 42 U.S.C. 12705.)
Moderate-income family.
Family whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes.
Overcrowding.
For purposes of describing relative housing needs, a housing unit containing more than one person per room, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau, for which data are made available by the Census Bureau. (See 24 CFR 791.402(b).)
Person with a disability.
A person who is determined to:
(1) Have a physical, mental or emotional impairment that:
(i) Is expected to be of long-continued and indefinite duration;
(ii) Substantially impedes his or her ability to live independently; and
(iii) Is of such a nature that the ability could be improved by more suitable housing conditions; or
(2) Have a developmental disability, as defined in section 102(7) of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6001-6007); or
(3) Be the surviving member or members of any family that had been living in an assisted unit with the deceased member of the family who had a disability at the time of his or her death.
Poverty level family.
Family with an income below the poverty line, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget and revised annually.
Rapid re-housing assistance.
The provision of housing relocation and stabilization services and short- and/or medium-term rental assistance as necessary to help a homeless individual or
family move as quickly as possible into permanent housing and achieve stability in that housing.
Severe cost burden.
The extent to which gross housing costs, including utility costs, exceed 50 percent of gross income, based on data available from the U.S. Census Bureau.
State.
Any State of the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Transitional housing.
A project that is designed to provide housing and appropriate supportive services to homeless persons to facilitate movement to independent living within 24 months, or a longer period approved by HUD. For purposes of the HOME program, there is no HUD-approved time period for moving to independent living.
Victim service provider.
A private nonprofit organization whose primary mission is to provide services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking. This term includes rape crisis centers, battered women's shelters, domestic violence transitional housing programs, and other programs.
Unit of general local government.
A city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; an urban county; and a consortium of such political subdivisions recognized by HUD in accordance with the HOME program (24 CFR part 92) or the CDBG program (24 CFR part 570).
Urban county.
See definition in 24 CFR 570.3.
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 4861, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 5205, Feb. 9, 1996; 64 FR 50223, Sept. 15, 1999; 71 FR 6961, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75966, 76013, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 42360, July 16, 2015; 80 FR 75804, Dec. 4, 2015; 85 FR 47906, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 91.10
Consolidated program year.
(a) Each of the following programs shall be administered by a jurisdiction on a single consolidated program year, established by the jurisdiction: CDBG, ESG, HOME, HOPWA, and HTF. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the program year shall run for a twelve month period and begin on the first calendar day of a month.
(b) Once a program year is established, the jurisdiction may either shorten or lengthen its program year to change the beginning date of the following program year, provided that it notifies HUD in writing at least two months before the date the program year would have ended if it had not been lengthened or at least two months before the end of a proposed shortened program year.
(c) See subpart E of this part for requirements concerning program year for units of general local government that are part of a consortium.
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 5219, Jan. 30, 2015]
§ 91.15
Submission date.
(a)
General.
(1) In order to facilitate continuity in its program and to provide accountability to citizens, each jurisdiction should submit its consolidated plan to HUD at least 45 days before the start of its program year. (But see § 92.104 of this subtitle with respect to newly eligible jurisdictions under the HOME program.) With the exception of the August 16 date noted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, HUD may grant a jurisdiction an extension of the submission deadline for good cause.
(2) In no event will HUD accept a submission earlier than November 15 or later than August 16 of the federal fiscal year for which the grant funds are appropriated. Failure to receive the plan by August 16 will automatically result in a loss of the CDBG funds to which the jurisdiction would otherwise be entitled.
(3) A jurisdiction may have a program year that coincides with the federal fiscal year (e.g., October 1, 2005 through September 30, 2006, for federal fiscal year 2006 funds). However, the consolidated plan may not be submitted earlier than November 15 of the federal fiscal year and HUD has the period specified in § 91.500 to review the consolidated plan.
(4) See § 91.20 for HUD field office authorization to grant exceptions to these provisions.
(b)
Frequency of submission.
(1) The summary of the citizen participation and consultation process, the action plan, and the certifications must be submitted on an annual basis.
(2) The housing, and homeless needs assessment, market analysis, and strategic plan must be submitted at least once every five years, or as such time agreed upon by HUD and the jurisdiction in order to facilitate orderly program management, coordinate consolidated plans with time periods used for cooperation agreements, other plans, or the availability of data.
(3) A jurisdiction may make amendments that extend the time period covered by their plan if agreed upon by HUD.
[71 FR 6961, Feb. 9, 2006]
§ 91.20
Exceptions.
The HUD Field Office may grant a jurisdiction an exception from the submission deadline for plans and reports and from a requirement in the implementation guidelines for good cause, as determined by the field office and reported in writing to HUD Headquarters, unless the requirement is required by statute or regulation.
[71 FR 6962, Feb. 9, 2006]

# Subpart B—Citizen Participation and Consultation
§ 91.100
Consultation; local governments.
(a)
General.
(1) When preparing the consolidated plan, the jurisdiction shall consult with other public and private agencies that provide assisted housing, health services, and social services (including those focusing on services to children, elderly persons, persons with disabilities, persons with HIV/AIDS and their families, homeless persons), community-based and regionally-based organizations that represent protected class members, and organizations that enforce fair housing laws. When preparing the consolidated plan, the jurisdiction shall also consult with public and private organizations. Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, such consultations shall include broadband internet service providers, organizations engaged in narrowing the digital divide, agencies whose primary responsibilities include the management of flood prone areas, public land or water resources, and emergency management agencies.
(2) When preparing the portions of the consolidated plan describing the jurisdiction's homeless strategy and the resources available to address the needs of homeless persons (particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) and persons at risk of homelessness, the jurisdiction must consult with:
(i) The Continuum(s) of Care that serve(s) the jurisdiction's geographic area;
(ii) Public and private agencies that address housing, health, social service, victim services, employment, or education needs of low-income individuals and families; homeless individuals and families, including homeless veterans; youth; and/or other persons with special needs;
(iii) Publicly funded institutions and systems of care that may discharge persons into homelessness (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions); and
(iv) Business and civic leaders.
(3) When preparing the portion of its consolidated plan concerning lead-based paint hazards, the jurisdiction shall consult with state or local health and child welfare agencies and examine existing data related to lead-based paint hazards and poisonings, including health department data on the addresses of housing units in which children have been identified as lead poisoned.
(4) When preparing the description of priority nonhousing community development needs, a unit of general local government must notify adjacent units of general local government, to the extent practicable. The nonhousing community development plan must be submitted to the state, and, if the jurisdiction is a CDBG entitlement grantee other than an urban county, to the county.
(5) The jurisdiction also should consult with adjacent units of general local government and local and regional government agencies, including
local government agencies with metropolitan-wide planning and transportation responsibilities, particularly for problems and solutions that go beyond a single jurisdiction.
(b)
HOPWA.
The largest city in each eligible metropolitan statistical area (EMSA) that is eligible to receive a HOPWA formula allocation must consult broadly to develop a metropolitan-wide strategy for addressing the needs of persons with HIV/AIDS and their families living throughout the EMSA. All jurisdictions within the EMSA must assist the jurisdiction that is applying for a HOPWA allocation in the preparation of the HOPWA submission.
(c)
Public housing agencies (PHAs).
(1) The jurisdiction shall consult with local PHAs operating in the jurisdiction regarding consideration of public housing needs, planned programs and activities, strategies for affirmatively furthering fair housing, and proposed actions to affirmatively further fair housing in the consolidated plan. This consultation will help provide a better basis for the certification by the authorized official that the PHA Plan is consistent with the consolidated plan and the local government's description of its strategy for affirmatively furthering fair housing and the manner in which it will address the needs of public housing and, where necessary, the manner in which it will provide financial or other assistance to a troubled PHA to improve the PHA's operations and remove the designation of troubled, as well as obtaining PHA input on addressing fair housing issues in the Public Housing and Housing Choice Voucher programs.
(2) This consultation will also help ensure that activities with regard to affirmatively furthering fair housing, local drug elimination, neighborhood improvement programs, and resident programs and services, those funded under a PHA's program and those funded under a program covered by the consolidated plan, are fully coordinated to achieve comprehensive community development goals and affirmatively further fair housing. If a PHA is required to implement remedies under a Voluntary Compliance Agreement, the local jurisdiction should work with or consult with the PHA, as appropriate, to identify actions the jurisdiction may take, if any, to assist the PHA in implementing the required remedies. A local jurisdiction may use CDBG funds for eligible activities or other funds to implement remedies required under a Voluntary Compliance Agreement.
(d) Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG). A jurisdiction that receives an ESG grant must consult with the Continuum of Care in determining how to allocate its ESG grant for eligible activities; in developing the performance standards for, and evaluating the outcomes of, projects and activities assisted by ESG funds; and in developing funding, policies, and procedures for the operation and administration of the HMIS.
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6962, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75967, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 42360, July 16, 2015; 81 FR 91011, Dec. 16, 2016; 85 FR 47906, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 91.105
Citizen participation plan; local governments.
(a)
Applicability and adoption of the citizen participation plan.
(1) The jurisdiction is required to adopt a citizen participation plan that sets forth the jurisdiction's policies and procedures for citizen participation. (Where a jurisdiction, before August 17, 2015, adopted a citizen participation plan it, will need to amend the citizen participation plan to comply with provisions of this section.)
(2)
Encouragement of citizen participation.
(i) The citizen participation plan must provide for and encourage citizens to participate in the development of the consolidated plan, any substantial amendment to the consolidated plan, and the performance report. These requirements are designed especially to encourage participation by low- and moderate-income persons, particularly those persons living in areas designated by the jurisdiction as a revitalization area or in a slum and blighted area and in areas where CDBG funds are proposed to be used, and by residents of predominantly low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, as defined by the jurisdiction. A jurisdiction must take appropriate actions to encourage the participation of all its citizens, including minorities and non-English speaking persons, as provided
in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, as well as persons with disabilities.
(ii) The jurisdiction shall encourage the participation of local and regional institutions, Continuums of Care, and other organizations (including businesses, developers, nonprofit organizations, philanthropic organizations, and community-based and faith-based organizations) in the process of developing and implementing the consolidated plan.
(iii) The jurisdiction shall encourage, in conjunction with consultation with public housing agencies, the participation of residents of public and assisted housing developments (including any resident advisory boards, resident councils, and resident management corporations) in the process of developing and implementing the consolidated plan, along with other low-income residents of targeted revitalization areas in which the developments are located. The jurisdictions shall make an effort to provide information to the PHA about affirmatively furthering fair housing strategy, and consolidated plan activities related to its developments and surrounding communities so that the PHA can make this information available at the annual public hearing(s) required for the PHA Plan.
(iv) The jurisdiction should explore alternative public involvement techniques and quantitative ways to measure efforts that encourage citizen participation in a shared vision for change in communities and neighborhoods, and the review of program performance;
e.g.,
use of focus groups and the Internet.
(3)
Citizen comment on the citizen participation plan and amendments.
The jurisdiction must provide citizens with a reasonable opportunity to comment on the original citizen participation plan and on substantial amendments to the citizen participation plan, and must make the citizen participation plan public. The citizen participation plan must be in a format accessible to persons with disabilities, upon request.
(4) The citizen participation plan shall describe the jurisdiction's procedures for assessing its language needs and identify any need for translation of notices and other vital documents. At a minimum, the citizen participation plan shall require that the jurisdiction take reasonable steps to provide language assistance to ensure meaningful access to participation by non-English-speaking residents of the community.
(b)
Development of the consolidated plan.
The citizen participation plan must include the following minimum requirements for the development of the consolidated plan:
(1)(i) The citizen participation plan must require that at or as soon as feasible after the start of the public participation process the jurisdiction will make the HUD-provided data and any other supplemental information the jurisdiction plans to incorporate into its consolidated plan available to its residents, public agencies, and other interested parties. The jurisdiction may make the HUD-provided data available to the public by cross-referencing to the data on HUD's website.
(ii) The citizen participation plan must require that, before the jurisdiction adopts a consolidated plan, the jurisdiction will make available to residents, public agencies, and other interested parties information that includes the amount of assistance the jurisdiction expects to receive (including grant funds and program income) and the range of activities that may be undertaken, including the estimated amount that will benefit persons of low- and moderate-income. The citizen participation plan also must set forth the jurisdiction's plans to minimize displacement of persons and to assist any persons displaced, specifying the types and levels of assistance the jurisdiction will make available (or require others to make available) to persons displaced, even if the jurisdiction expects no displacement to occur.
(iii) The citizen participation plan must state when and how the jurisdiction will make this information available.
(2) The citizen participation plan must require the jurisdiction to publish the proposed consolidated plan in a manner that affords its residents, public agencies, and other interested parties a reasonable opportunity to examine its content and to submit comments. The citizen participation plan must set forth how the jurisdiction will
publish the proposed consolidated plan and give reasonable opportunity to examine each document's content. The requirement for publishing may be met by publishing a summary of each document in one or more newspapers of general circulation, and by making copies of each document available on the internet, on the jurisdiction's official government website, and as well at libraries, government offices, and public places. The summary must describe the content and purpose of the consolidated plan and must include a list of the locations where copies of the entire proposed document may be examined. In addition, the jurisdiction must provide a reasonable number of free copies of the plan to residents and groups that request it.
(3) The citizen participation plan must provide for at least one public hearing during the development of the consolidated plan. See paragraph (e) of this section for public hearing requirements, generally.
(4) The citizen participation plan must provide a period, not less than 30 calendar days, to receive comments from residents of the community on the consolidated plan.
(5) The citizen participation plan shall require the jurisdiction to consider any comments or views of residents of the community received in writing, or orally at the public hearings, in preparing the final consolidated plan. A summary of these comments or views, and a summary of any comments or views not accepted and the reasons why, shall be attached to the final consolidated plan.
(c)
Consolidated plan amendments.
(1) The citizen participation plan must specify the criteria the jurisdiction will use for determining what changes in the jurisdiction's planned or actual activities constitute a substantial amendment to the consolidated plan. (See § 91.505.) The citizen participation plan must include, among the criteria for a substantial amendment, changes in the use of CDBG funds from one eligible activity to another.
(2) The citizen participation plan must provide community residents with reasonable notice and an opportunity to comment on substantial amendments to the consolidated plan. The citizen participation plan must state how reasonable notice and an opportunity to comment will be given. The citizen participation plan must provide a period, of not less than 30 calendar days, to receive comments on the consolidated plan substantial amendment before the consolidated plan substantial amendment is implemented is submitted to HUD for review.
(3) The citizen participation plan shall require the jurisdiction to consider any comments or views of residents of the community received in writing, or orally at public hearings, if any, in preparing the substantial amendment of the consolidated plan. A summary of these comments or views, and a summary of any comments or views not accepted and the reasons why, shall be attached to the substantial amendment of the consolidated plan.
(d)
Performance reports.
(1) The citizen participation plan must provide citizens with reasonable notice and an opportunity to comment on performance reports. The citizen participation plan must state how reasonable notice and an opportunity to comment will be given. The citizen participation plan must provide a period, not less than 15 days, to receive comments on the performance report that is to be submitted to HUD before its submission.
(2) The citizen participation plan shall require the jurisdiction to consider any comments or views of citizens received in writing, or orally at public hearings in preparing the performance report. A summary of these comments or views shall be attached to the performance report.
(e)
Public hearings
—(1)(i).
Consolidated plan.
The citizen participation plan must provide for at least two public hearings per year to obtain residents' views and to respond to proposals and questions, to be conducted at a minimum of two different stages of the program year. Together, the hearings must address housing and community development needs, development of proposed activities, proposed strategies and actions for affirmatively furthering fair housing, and a review of program performance.
(ii)
Minimum number of hearings.
To obtain the views of residents of the
community on housing and community development needs, including priority nonhousing community development needs and affirmatively furthering fair housing, the citizen participation plan must provide that at least one of these hearings is held before the proposed consolidated plan is published for comment.
(2) The citizen participation plan must state how and when adequate advance notice will be given to citizens of each hearing, with sufficient information published about the subject of the hearing to permit informed comment. (Publishing small print notices in the newspaper a few days before the hearing does not constitute adequate notice. Although HUD is not specifying the length of notice required, it would consider two weeks adequate.)
(3) The citizen participation plan must provide that hearings be held at times and locations convenient to potential and actual beneficiaries, and with accommodation for persons with disabilities. The citizen participation plan must specify how it will meet these requirements.
(4) The citizen participation plan must identify how the needs of non-English speaking residents will be met in the case of public hearings where a significant number of non-English speaking residents can be reasonably expected to participate.
(f)
Meetings.
The citizen participation plan must provide residents of the community with reasonable and timely access to local meetings, consistent with accessibility and reasonable accommodation requirements, in accordance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the regulations at 24 CFR part 8; and the Americans with Disabilities Act and the regulations at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable.
(g)
Availability to the public.
The citizen participation plan must provide that the consolidated plan as adopted, consolidated plan substantial amendments, and the performance report will be available to the public, including the availability of materials in a form accessible to persons with disabilities, upon request. The citizen participation plan must state how these documents will be available to the public.
(h)
Access to records.
The citizen participation plan must require the jurisdiction to provide residents of the community, public agencies, and other interested parties with reasonable and timely access to information and records relating to the jurisdiction's consolidated plan and use of assistance under the programs covered by this part during the preceding 5 years.
(i)
Technical assistance.
The citizen participation plan must provide for technical assistance to groups representative of persons of low- and moderate-income that request such assistance in developing proposals for funding assistance under any of the programs covered by the consolidated plan, with the level and type of assistance determined by the jurisdiction. The assistance need not include the provision of funds to the groups.
(j)
Complaints.
The citizen participation plan shall describe the jurisdiction's appropriate and practicable procedures to handle complaints from its residents related to the consolidated plan, amendments, revisions, and the performance report. At a minimum, the citizen participation plan shall require that the jurisdiction must provide a timely, substantive written response to every written resident complaint, within an established period of time (within 15 working days, where practicable, if the jurisdiction is a CDBG grant recipient).
(k)
Use of citizen participation plan.
The jurisdiction must follow its citizen participation plan.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 10427, Feb. 24, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6962, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75967, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 42360, July 16, 2015; 81 FR 91011, Dec. 16, 2016; 85 FR 47906, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 91.110
Consultation; States.
(a) When preparing the consolidated plan, the State shall consult with other public and private agencies that provide assisted housing (including any state housing agency administering public housing), health services, and social and fair housing services (including those focusing on services to children, elderly persons, persons with disabilities, persons with HIV/AIDS and
their families, and homeless persons) during preparation of the consolidated plan.
(b) When preparing the portions of the consolidated plan describing the State's homeless strategy and the resources available to address the needs of homeless persons (particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) and persons at risk of homelessness, the State must consult with:
(1) Each Continuum of Care within the state;
(2) Public and private agencies that address housing, health, social services, victim services, employment, or education needs of low-income individuals and families; of homeless individuals and families, including homeless veterans; youth; and/or of other persons with special needs;
(3) Publicly funded institutions and systems of care that may discharge persons into homelessness (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions); and
(4) Business and civic leaders.
(c) When preparing the portion of its consolidated plan concerning lead-based paint hazards, the State shall consult with state or local health and child welfare agencies and examine existing data related to lead-based paint hazards and poisonings, including health department data on the addresses of housing units in which children have been identified as lead-poisoned.
(d) When preparing its method of distribution of assistance under the CDBG program, a State must consult with local governments in nonentitlement areas of the state.
(e) The State must also consult with each Continuum of Care within the state in determining how to allocate its ESG grant for eligible activities; developing the performance standards for, and evaluating the outcomes of, projects and activities assisted by ESG funds; and developing funding, policies, and procedures for the operation and administration of the HMIS.
[85 FR 47907, Aug. 7, 2020]
§ 91.115
Citizen participation plan; States.
(a)
Applicability and adoption of the citizen participation plan
—(1)
When citizen participation plan must be amended.
The State is required to adopt a citizen participation plan that sets forth the State's policies and procedures for citizen participation. (Where a State, before August 17, 2015, adopted a citizen participation plan, it will need to amend the citizen participation plan to comply with provisions of this section.)
(2)
Encouragement of citizen participation.
(i) The citizen participation plan must provide for and encourage citizens to participate in the development of the consolidated plan, any substantial amendments to the consolidated plan, and the performance report. These requirements are designed especially to encourage participation by low- and moderate-income persons, particularly those living in slum and blighted areas and in areas where CDBG funds are proposed to be used and by residents of predominantly low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. A State must take appropriate actions to encourage the participation of all its residents, including minorities and non-English speaking persons, as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, as well as persons with disabilities.
(ii) The State shall encourage the participation of Statewide and regional institutions, Continuums of Care, and other organizations (including businesses, developers, nonprofit organizations, philanthropic organizations, and community-based and faith-based organizations) that are involved with or affected by the programs or activities covered by the consolidated plan in the process of developing and implementing the consolidated plan. Commencing with consolidated plans submitted in or after January 1, 2018, the State shall also encourage the participation of public and private organizations, including broadband internet service providers, organizations engaged in narrowing the digital divide, agencies whose primary responsibilities include the management of flood prone areas, public land or water resources, and emergency management
agencies in the process of developing the consolidated plan.
(iii) The State should also explore alternative public involvement techniques that encourage a shared vision of change for the community and the review of program performance; e.g., use of focus groups and use of the Internet.
(3)
Citizen and local government comment on the citizen participation plan and amendments.
The State must provide citizens and units of general local government a reasonable opportunity to comment on the original citizen participation plan and on substantial amendments to the citizen participation plan, and must make the citizen participation plan public. The citizen participation plan must be in a format accessible to persons with disabilities, upon request.
(4)
Language assistance for those with limited English proficiency.
The citizen participation plan shall describe the State's procedures for assessing its language needs and identify any need for translation of notices and other vital documents. At a minimum, the citizen participation plan shall require the State to make reasonable efforts to provide language assistance to ensure meaningful access to participation by non-English speaking persons.
(b)
Development of the consolidated plan.
The citizen participation plan must include the following minimum requirements for the development of the consolidated plan:
(1) The citizen participation plan must require that, before the State adopts a consolidated plan, the State will make available to its residents, public agencies, and other interested parties information that includes the amount of assistance the State expects to receive and the range of activities that may be undertaken, including the estimated amount that will benefit persons of low- and moderate-income and the plans to minimize displacement of persons and to assist any persons displaced. The citizen participation plan must state when and how the State will make this information available.
(2) The citizen participation plan must require the State to publish the proposed consolidated plan in a manner that affords residents, units of general local governments, public agencies, and other interested parties a reasonable opportunity to examine the document's content and to submit comments. The citizen participation plan must set forth how the State will make publicly available the proposed consolidated plan and give reasonable opportunity to examine each document's content. To ensure that the consolidated plan and the PHA plan are informed by meaningful community participation, program participants should employ communications means designed to reach the broadest audience. Such communications may be met by publishing a summary of each document in one or more newspapers of general circulation, and by making copies of each document available on the internet, on the grantee's official government website, and as well at libraries, government offices, and public places. The summary must describe the content and purpose of the consolidated plan, and must include a list of the locations where copies of the entire proposed document(s) may be examined. In addition, the State must provide a reasonable number of free copies of the plan to its residents and groups that request a copy of the plan.
(3) The citizen participation plan must provide for at least one public hearing on housing and community development needs before the proposed consolidated plan is published for comment.
(i) The citizen participation plan must state how and when adequate advance notice of the hearing will be given to residents, with sufficient information published about the subject of the hearing to permit informed comment. (Publishing small print notices in the newspaper a few days before the hearing does not constitute adequate notice. Although HUD is not specifying the length of notice required, HUD would consider 2 weeks adequate.)
(ii) The citizen participation plan must provide that the hearing be held at a time and accessible location convenient to potential and actual beneficiaries, and with accommodation for persons with disabilities. The citizen participation plan must specify how it will meet these requirements.
(iii) The citizen participation plan must identify how the needs of non-English speaking residents will be met in the case of a public hearing where a significant number of non-English speaking residents can be reasonably expected to participate.
(4) The citizen participation plan must provide a period, of not less than 30 calendar days, to receive comments from residents and units of general local government on the consolidated plan.
(5) The citizen participation plan shall require the State to consider any comments or views of its residents and units of general local government received in writing, or orally at the public hearings, in preparing the final consolidated plan. A summary of these comments or views, and a summary of any comments or views not accepted and the reasons therefore, shall be attached to the final consolidated plan (as applicable).
(c)
Amendments
—(1)
Criteria for amendment to consolidated plan.
The citizen participation plan must specify the criteria the State will use for determining what changes in the State's planned or actual activities constitute a substantial amendment to the consolidated plan. (See § 91.505.) The citizen participation plan must include, among the criteria for a consolidated plan, substantial amendment changes in the method of distribution of such funds.
(2) The citizen participation plan must provide residents and units of general local government with reasonable notice and an opportunity to comment on consolidated plan substantial amendments. The citizen participation plan must state how reasonable notice and an opportunity to comment will be given. The citizen participation plan must provide a period, of not less than 30 calendar days, to receive comments on the consolidated plan substantial amendment before the consolidated plan substantial amendment is implemented.
(3) The citizen participation plan shall require the State to consider any comments or views of its residents and units of general local government received in writing, or orally at public hearings, if any, in preparing the substantial amendment of the consolidated plan. A summary of these comments or views, and a summary of any comments or views not accepted and the reasons why, shall be attached to the substantial amendment of the consolidated plan.
(d)
Performance Reports.
(1) The citizen participation plan must provide citizens with reasonable notice and an opportunity to comment on performance reports. The citizen participation plan must state how reasonable notice and an opportunity to comment will be given. The citizen participation plan must provide a period, not less than 15 days, to receive comments on the performance report that is to be submitted to HUD before its submission.
(2) The citizen participation plan shall require the state to consider any comments or views of citizens received in writing, or orally at public hearings in preparing the performance report. A summary of these comments or views shall be attached to the performance report.
(e)
Citizen participation requirements for local governments.
The citizen participation plan must describe the citizen participation requirements for units of general local government receiving CDBG funds from the State in 24 CFR 570.486. The citizen participation plan must explain how the requirements will be met.
(f)
Availability to the public.
The citizen participation plan must provide that the consolidated plan as adopted, consolidated plan substantial amendments and the performance report will be available to the public, including the availability of materials in a form accessible to persons with disabilities, upon request. The citizen participation plan must state how these documents will be available to the public.
(g)
Access to records.
The citizen participation plan must require the State to provide its residents, public agencies, and other interested parties with reasonable and timely access to information and records relating to the State's consolidated plan and use of assistance under the programs covered by this part during the preceding 5 years.
(h)
Complaints.
The citizen participation plan shall describe the State's appropriate and practicable procedures to
handle complaints from its residents related to the consolidated plan, consolidated plan amendments, and the performance report. At a minimum, the citizen participation plan shall require that the State must provide a timely, substantive written response to every written resident complaint, within an established period of time (within 15 working days, where practicable, if the State is a CDBG grant recipient).
(i)
Use of citizen participation plan.
The State must follow its citizen participation plan.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6963, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75968, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 42363, July 16, 2015; 81 FR 91011, Dec. 16, 2016; 85 FR 47907, Aug. 7, 2020]

# Subpart C—Local Governments; Contents of Consolidated Plan
§ 91.200
General.
(a) A complete consolidated plan consists of the information required in § 91.200 through § 91.230, submitted in accordance with instructions prescribed by HUD (including tables and narratives), or in such other format as jointly agreed upon by HUD and the jurisdiction. A comprehensive housing affordability strategy consists of the information required in § 91.200 through § 91.215(e), § 91.215(h) through § 91.215(l), § 91.220(c), § 91.220(g), § 91.225 and § 91.230.
(b) The jurisdiction shall describe:
(1) The lead agency or entity responsible for overseeing the development of the plan and the significant aspects of the process by which the consolidated plan was developed;
(2) The identity of the agencies, groups, organizations, and others who participated in the process; and
(3) A jurisdiction's consultations with:
(i) The Continuum of Care that serves the jurisdiction's geographic area;
(ii) Public and private agencies that address housing, health, social services, employment, or education needs of low-income individuals and families, of homeless individuals and families, of youth, and/or of other persons with special needs;
(iii) Publicly funded institutions and systems of care that may discharge persons into homelessness (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions);
(iv) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, public and private organizations, including broadband internet service providers and organizations engaged in narrowing the digital divide;
(v) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, agencies whose primary responsibilities include the management of flood prone areas, public land or water resources, and emergency management agencies; and
(vi) Other entities.
(c) In order to facilitate citizen review and comment each year, the plan shall contain a concise executive summary that includes the objectives and outcomes identified in the plan as well as an evaluation of past performance. The plan shall also include a concise summary of the citizen participation process, public comments, and efforts made to broaden public participation in the development of the consolidated plan.
[71 FR 6963, Feb. 9, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 75968, Dec. 5, 2011; 81 FR 91011, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 91.205
Housing and homeless needs assessment.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 11023, Mar. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction's estimated housing needs projected for the ensuing five-year period. Housing data included in this portion of the plan shall be based on U.S. Census data, as provided by HUD, as updated by any properly conducted local study, or any other reliable source that the jurisdiction clearly identifies, and should reflect the consultation with social service agencies and other entities conducted in accordance with § 91.100 and the citizen participation process conducted in accordance with § 91.105. For a jurisdiction seeking funding on behalf of an eligible metropolitan statistical area under the HOPWA program, the needs described for housing and supportive services must address the unmet needs of low-
income persons with HIV/AIDS and their families throughout the eligible metropolitan statistical area.
(b)
Categories of persons affected.
(1)(i) The plan shall estimate the number and type of families in need of housing assistance for:
(A) Extremely low-income, low-income, moderate-income, and middle-income families;
(B) Renters and owners;
(C) Elderly persons;
(D) Single persons;
(E) Large families;
(F) Public housing residents;
(G) Families on the public housing and Section 8 tenant-based waiting list;
(H) Persons with HIV/AIDS and their families;
(I) Victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
(J) Persons with disabilities; and
(K) Formerly homeless families and individuals who are receiving rapid re-housing assistance and are nearing the termination of that assistance.
(ii) The description of housing needs shall include a concise summary of the cost burden and severe cost burden, overcrowding (especially for large families), and substandard housing conditions being experienced by extremely low-income, low-income, moderate-income, and middle-income renters and owners compared to the jurisdiction as a whole. (The jurisdiction must define in its consolidated plan the terms “standard condition” and “substandard condition but suitable for rehabilitation.”)
(2) For any of the income categories enumerated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, to the extent that any racial or ethnic group has disproportionately greater need in comparison to the needs of that category as a whole, assessment of that specific need shall be included. For this purpose, disproportionately greater need exists when the percentage of persons in a category of need who are members of a particular racial or ethnic group in a category of need is at least 10 percentage points higher than the percentage of persons in the category as a whole.
(c)
Persons who are homeless or at risk of homelessness.
(1) The plan must describe, in a form prescribed by HUD, the nature and extent of unsheltered and sheltered homelessness, including rural homelessness, within the jurisdiction. At a minimum, the recipient must use data from the Homeless Management Information System (HMIS) and data from the Point-In-Time (PIT) count conducted in accordance with HUD standards.
(i) The description must include, for each category of homeless persons specified by HUD (including chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth), the number of persons experiencing homelessness on a given night, the number of persons who experience homelessness each year, the number of persons who lose their housing and become homeless each year, the number of persons who exit homelessness each year, the number of days that persons experience homelessness, and other measures specified by HUD.
(ii) The plan also must contain a brief narrative description of the nature and extent of homelessness by racial and ethnic group, to the extent information is available.
(2) The plan must include a narrative description of the characteristics and needs of low-income individuals and families with children (especially extremely low-income) who are currently housed but threatened with homelessness. This information may be evidenced by the characteristics and needs of individuals and families with children who are currently entering the homeless assistance system or appearing for the first time on the streets. The description must also specify particular housing characteristics that have been linked with instability and an increased risk of homelessness.
(d)
Other special needs.
(1) The jurisdiction shall estimate, to the extent practicable, the number of persons who are not homeless but require supportive housing, including the elderly, frail elderly, persons with disabilities (mental, physical, developmental), persons with alcohol or other drug addiction, persons with HIV/AIDS and their families, public housing residents, and any other categories the jurisdiction
may specify, and describe their supportive housing needs.
(2) With respect to a jurisdiction seeking funding on behalf of an eligible metropolitan statistical area under the HOPWA program, the plan must identify the size and characteristics of the population with HIV/AIDS and their families within the eligible metropolitan statistical area it will serve.
(e)
Lead-based paint hazards.
The plan must estimate the number of housing units within the jurisdiction that are occupied by low-income families or moderate-income families that contain lead-based paint hazards, as defined in this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 51760, Oct. 3, 1996; 71 FR 6963, Feb. 9, 2006; 73 FR 72342, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66260, Oct. 27, 2010; 76 FR 75968, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 42364, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11023, Mar. 3, 2025, § 91.205 was amended by removing and reserving paragraph (b)(2), effective Apr. 2, 2025.
§ 91.210
Housing market analysis.
(a)
General characteristics.
(1) Based on information available to the jurisdiction, the plan must describe the significant characteristics of the jurisdiction's housing market, including the supply, demand, and condition and cost of housing and the housing stock available to serve persons with disabilities, and to serve other low-income persons with special needs, including persons with HIV/AIDS and their families.
(2) Data on the housing market should include, to the extent information is available, an estimate of the number of vacant or abandoned buildings and whether units in these buildings are suitable for rehabilitation.
(3) The jurisdiction must also identify and describe any areas within the jurisdiction with concentrations of racial/ethnic minorities and/or low-income families, stating how it defines the terms “area of low-income concentration” and “area of minority concentration” for this purpose. The locations and degree of these concentrations must be identified, either in a narrative or on one or more maps.
(4) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, the jurisdiction must also describe the broadband needs of housing occupied by low- and moderate-income households based on an analysis of data, identified by the jurisdiction, for its low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. These needs include the need for broadband wiring and for connection to the broadband service in the household units and the need for increased competition by having more than one broadband Internet service provider serve the jurisdiction.
(5) Commencing with consolidated plans submitted on or after January 1, 2018, the jurisdiction must also describe the vulnerability of housing occupied by low- and moderate-income households to increased natural hazard risks associated with climate change based on an analysis of data, findings, and methods identified by the jurisdiction in its consolidated plan.
(b)
Public and assisted housing.
(1) The plan must describe and identify the public housing developments and the number of public housing units in the jurisdiction, the physical condition of such units, the restoration and revitalization needs, results from the Section 504 needs assessment (i.e., assessment of needs of tenants and applicants on waiting list for accessible units, as required by 24 CFR 8.25), and the public housing agency's strategy for improving the management and operation of such public housing and for improving the living environment of low- and moderate-income families residing in public housing. The consolidated plan must identify the public housing developments in the jurisdictions that are participating in an approved PHA Plan.
(2) The jurisdiction shall include a description of the number and targeting (income level and type of family served) of units currently assisted by local, state, or federally funded programs, and an assessment of whether any such units are expected to be lost from the assisted housing inventory for any reason, such as expiration of Section 8 contracts.
(c)
Facilities, housing, and services for homeless persons.
The plan must include a brief inventory of facilities, housing, and services that meet the needs of
homeless persons within the jurisdiction, particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth.
(1) The inventory of facilities and housing (
e.g.,
emergency shelter, transitional housing, and permanent supportive housing) must be presented in a form specified by HUD.
(2) The inventory of services must include both services targeted to homeless persons and mainstream services, such as health, mental health, and employment services to the extent those services are used to complement services targeted to homeless persons.
(d)
Special need facilities and services.
The plan must describe, to the extent information is available, the facilities and services that assist persons who are not homeless but who require supportive housing, and programs for ensuring that persons returning from mental and physical health institutions receive appropriate supportive housing.
(e)
Barriers to affordable housing.
The plan must explain whether the cost of housing or the incentives to develop, maintain, or improve affordable housing in the jurisdiction are affected by public policies, particularly by policies of the jurisdiction, including tax policies affecting land and other property, land use controls, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limits, and policies that affect the return on residential investment.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506-0117)
[60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 6964, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75969, Dec. 5, 2011; 81 FR 91012, Dec. 16, 2016]
§ 91.215
Strategic plan.
(a)
General.
For the categories described in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section, the consolidated plan must do the following:
(1) Indicate the general priorities for allocating investment geographically within the jurisdiction (or within the EMSA for the HOPWA program) and among different activities and needs, as identified in tables prescribed by HUD.
(2) Describe the rationale for establishing the allocation priorities given to each category of priority needs, particularly among extremely low-income, low-income, and moderate-income households;
(3) Identify any obstacles to meeting underserved needs;
(4) Summarize the priorities and specific objectives the jurisdiction intends to initiate and/or complete during the time period covered by the strategic plan and how funds that are reasonably expected to be available will be used to address identified needs. For each specific objective statement, identify proposed accomplishments and outcomes the jurisdiction hopes to achieve in quantitative terms over a specified time period (e.g., one, two, three or more years), or in other measurable terms as identified and defined by the jurisdiction. This information is to be provided in accordance with guidance to be issued by HUD.
(b)
Affordable housing.
With respect to affordable housing, the consolidated plan must include the priority housing needs table prescribed by HUD and must do the following:
(1) The affordable housing section shall describe how the characteristics of the housing market and the severity of housing problems and needs of extremely low-income, low-income, and moderate-income renters and owners, persons at risk of homelessness, and homeless persons identified in accordance with § 91.205 provided the rationale for establishing allocation priorities and use of funds made available for rental assistance, production of new units, rehabilitation of existing units, or acquisition of existing units (including preserving affordable housing units that may be lost from the assisted housing inventory for any reason). Household and income types may be grouped together for discussion where the analysis would apply to more than one of them. If the jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds for tenant-based assistance, the jurisdiction must specify local market conditions that led to the choice of that option.
(2) The affordable housing section shall include specific objectives that describe proposed accomplishments the jurisdiction hopes to achieve and must specify the number of extremely low-
income, low-income, and moderate-income families to whom the jurisdiction will provide affordable housing as defined in 24 CFR 92.252 for rental housing, 24 CFR 92.254 for homeownership, and 24 CFR 93.302 and 24 CFR 93.304 (if the jurisdiction receives HTF funds from the State) over a specific time period.
(c)
Public housing.
The consolidated plan must describe the manner in which the plan of the jurisdiction will address the needs of public housing, including the need to increase the number of accessible units where required by a Section 504 Voluntarily Compliance Agreement. The consolidated plan must also describe the jurisdiction's activities to encourage public housing residents to become more involved in management and participate in homeownership. If the public housing agency is designated as “troubled” by HUD under 24 CFR part 902, the jurisdiction must describe the manner in which it will provide financial or other assistance to improve its operations and remove the “troubled” designation.
(d)
Homelessness.
The consolidated plan must include the priority homeless needs table prescribed by HUD and must describe the jurisdiction's strategy for reducing and ending homelessness through:
(1) Reaching out to homeless persons (especially unsheltered persons) and assessing their individual needs;
(2) Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons;
(3) Helping homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) make the transition to permanent housing and independent living, including shortening the period of time individuals and families experience homelessness, facilitating access for homeless individuals and families to affordable housing units, and preventing individuals and families who were recently homeless from becoming homeless again; and
(4) Helping low-income individuals and families avoid becoming homeless, especially extremely low-income individuals and families who are:
(i) Likely to become homeless after being discharged from publicly funded institutions and systems of care into homelessness (such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions) or
(ii) Receiving assistance from public and private agencies that address housing, health, social services, employment, education, or youth needs.
(e)
Other special needs.
With respect to special needs of the non-homeless, the consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the priority housing and supportive service needs of persons who are not homeless but who may or may not require supportive housing (i.e., elderly, frail elderly, persons with disabilities (mental, physical, developmental), persons with alcohol or other drug addiction, persons with HIV/AIDS and their families, and public housing residents). If the jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds for tenant-based assistance to assist one or more of these subpopulations, it must specify local market conditions that led to the choice of this option.
(f)
Nonhousing community development plan.
If the jurisdiction seeks assistance under the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, the consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction's priority non-housing community development needs eligible for assistance under HUD's community development programs by CDBG eligibility category, in accordance with a table prescribed by HUD. This community development component of the plan must state the jurisdiction's specific long-term and short-term community development objectives (including economic development activities that create jobs), which must be developed in accordance with the primary objective of the CDBG program to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and expanding economic opportunities, principally for low-income and moderate-income persons.
(g)
Neighborhood Revitalization.
Jurisdictions are encouraged to identify locally designated areas where geographically targeted revitalization efforts are carried out through multiple activities in a concentrated and coordinated manner. In addition, a jurisdiction may elect to carry out a HUD-approved neighborhood revitalization strategy that includes the economic empowerment of low-income residents with respect to one or more of its areas. If HUD approves such a strategy, the jurisdiction can obtain greater flexibility in the use of the CDBG funds in the revitalization area(s) as described in 24 CFR part 570, subpart C. This strategy must identify long-term and short-term objectives (e.g., physical improvements, social initiatives and economic empowerment), expressing them in terms of measures of outputs and outcomes the jurisdiction expects to achieve in the neighborhood through the use of HUD programs.
(h)
Barriers to affordable housing.
The consolidated plan must describe the jurisdiction's strategy to remove or ameliorate negative effects of public policies that serve as barriers to affordable housing, as identified in accordance with § 91.210(e), except that, if a State requires a unit of general local government to submit a regulatory barrier assessment that is substantially equivalent to the information required under this paragraph (h), as determined by HUD, the unit of general local government may submit its assessment submitted to the State to HUD and shall be considered to have complied with this requirement.
(i)
Lead-based paint hazards.
The consolidated plan must outline actions proposed or being taken to evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards and increase access to housing without such health hazards, how the plan for the reduction of lead-based hazards is related to the extent of lead poisoning and hazards, and how the plan for the reduction of lead-based hazards will be integrated into housing policies and programs.
(j)
Anti-poverty strategy.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction's goals, programs, and policies for reducing the number of poverty-level families and how the jurisdiction's goals, programs, and policies for producing and preserving affordable housing, set forth in the housing component of the consolidated plan, will be coordinated with other programs and services for which the jurisdiction is responsible and the extent to which they will reduce (or assist in reducing) the number of poverty-level families, taking into consideration factors over which the jurisdiction has control. These policies may include the jurisdiction's policies for providing employment and training opportunities to section 3 residents pursuant to 24 CFR part 75.
(k)
Institutional structure.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the institutional structure, including private industry; nonprofit organizations; community and faith-based organizations; philanthropic organizations; the Continuum of Care; and public institutions, departments and agencies through which the jurisdiction will carry out its housing, homeless, and community development plan; a brief assessment of the strengths and gaps in that delivery system; and a concise summary of what the jurisdiction will do to overcome gaps in the institutional structure for carrying out its strategy for addressing its priority needs.
(l)
Coordination.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction's activities to enhance coordination among the Continuum of Care, public and assisted housing providers, and private and governmental health, mental health, and service agencies. The summary must address the jurisdiction's efforts to coordinate housing assistance and services for homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) and persons who were recently homeless but now live in permanent housing. With respect to the public entities involved, the plan must describe the means of cooperation and coordination among the State and any units of general local government in the metropolitan area in the implementation of its consolidated plan. With respect to economic development, the jurisdiction should describe efforts
to enhance coordination with private industry, businesses, developers, and social service agencies.
[71 FR 6964, Feb. 9, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 75969, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 5219, Jan. 30, 2015; 80 FR 42364, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020; 85 FR 61567, Sept. 29, 2020]
§ 91.220
Action plan.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 863, Jan. 6, 2025.
This amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025, at 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025.
The action plan must include the following:
(a) Standard Form 424;
(b) A concise executive summary that includes the objectives and outcomes identified in the plan as well as an evaluation of past performance, a summary of the citizen participation and consultation process (including efforts to broaden public participation) (24 CFR 91.200 (b)), a summary of comments or views, and a summary of comments or views not accepted and the reasons therefore (24 CFR 91.105 (b)(5)).
(c)
Resources and objectives
—(1)
Federal resources.
The consolidated plan must provide a concise summary of the federal resources (including grant funds and program income) expected to be made available. Federal resources should include Section 8 funds made available to jurisdictions, Low-Income Housing Tax Credits, and competitive McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act funds, expected to be available to address priority needs and specific objectives identified in the strategic plan.
(2)
Other resources.
The consolidated plan must indicate resources from private and state and local sources that are reasonably expected to be made available to address the needs identified in the plan. The plan must explain how federal funds will leverage those additional resources, including a description of how matching requirements of the HUD programs will be satisfied. Where the jurisdiction deems it appropriate, the jurisdiction may indicate publicly owned land or property located within the jurisdiction that may be used to address the needs identified in the plan;
(3)
Annual objectives.
The consolidated plan must contain a summary of the annual objectives the jurisdiction expects to achieve during the forthcoming program year.
(d)
Activities to be undertaken.
The action plan must provide a description of the activities the jurisdiction will undertake during the next year to address priority needs and objectives. This description of activities shall estimate the number and type of families that will benefit from the proposed activities, the specific local objectives and priority needs (identified in accordance with § 91.215) that will be addressed by the activities using formula grant funds and program income the jurisdiction expects to receive during the program year, proposed accomplishments, and a target date for completion of the activity. This information is to be presented in the form of a table prescribed by HUD. The plan must also describe the reasons for the allocation priorities and identify any obstacles to addressing underserved needs;
(e)
Outcome measures.
Each jurisdiction must provide outcome measures for activities included in its action plan in accordance with guidance to be issued by HUD.
(f)
Geographic distribution.
A description of the geographic areas of the jurisdiction (including areas of low-income and minority concentration) in which it will direct assistance during the ensuing program year, giving the rationale for the priorities for allocating investment geographically. When appropriate, jurisdictions should estimate the percentage of funds they plan to dedicate to target areas.
(g)
Affordable housing.
The jurisdiction must specify one-year goals for the number of homeless, non-homeless, and special-needs households to be provided affordable housing using funds made available to the jurisdiction and one-year goals for the number of households to be provided affordable housing through activities that provide rental assistance, production of new units, rehabilitation of existing units, or acquisition of existing units using funds made available to the jurisdiction. The term affordable housing shall be as defined in 24 CFR 92.252 for rental housing and 24 CFR 92.254 for homeownership.
(h)
Public housing.
Actions it plans to take during the next year to address the needs of public housing and actions to encourage public housing residents
to become more involved in management and participate in homeownership. If the public housing agency is designated as “troubled” by HUD under part 902 of this title, the jurisdiction must describe the manner in which it will provide financial or other assistance to improve its operations and remove the “troubled” designation.
(i)
Homeless and other special needs activities.
(1) The jurisdiction must describe its one-year goals and specific actions steps for reducing and ending homelessness through:
(i) Reaching out to homeless persons (especially unsheltered persons) and assessing their individual needs;
(ii) Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons; and
(iii) Helping homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) make the transition to permanent housing and independent living, including shortening the period of time that individuals and families experience homelessness, facilitating access for homeless individuals and families to affordable housing units, and preventing individuals and families who were recently homeless from becoming homeless again; and
(iv) Helping low-income individuals and families avoid becoming homeless, especially extremely low-income individuals and families who are:
(A) Being discharged from publicly funded institutions and systems of care, such as health-care facilities, mental health facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions; or
(B) Receiving assistance from public and private agencies that address housing, health, social services, employment, education, or youth needs.
(2) The jurisdiction must specify the activities that it plans to undertake during the next year to address the housing and supportive service needs identified in accordance with § 91.215(e) with respect to persons who are not homeless but have other special needs.
(j)
Barriers to affordable housing.
Actions it plans to take during the next year to remove or ameliorate the negative effects of public policies that serve as barriers to affordable housing. Such policies, procedures and processes include, but are not limited to, land use controls, tax policies affecting land, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limitations, and policies affecting the return on residential investment.
(k)
Other actions.
Actions it plans to take during the next year to address obstacles to meeting underserved needs, foster and maintain affordable housing, evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards, reduce the number of poverty-level families, develop institutional structure, and enhance coordination between public and private housing and social service agencies (see § 91.215(a), (b), (i), (j), (k), and (l)).
(l)
Program-specific requirements
—(1)
CDBG.
(i) A jurisdiction must describe activities planned with respect to all CDBG funds expected to be available during the program year, except that an amount generally not to exceed 10 percent of such total available CDBG funds may be excluded from the funds for which eligible activities are described if it has been identified for the contingency of cost overruns.
(ii) “CDBG funds expected to be available during the program year” includes all of the following:
(A) The CDBG origin year grant.
(B) Any program income expected to be received during the program year.
(C) Any program income amounts not included in a prior action plan.
(D) Any program income previously generated under a lump sum drawdown agreement for which a new agreement will be executed during the program year pursuant to 24 CFR 570.513(b).
(E) Proceeds from Section 108 loan guarantees that will be used during the year to address the priority needs and specific objectives identified in its strategic plan.
(F) Surplus from urban renewal settlements.
(G) Reimbursements, other than program income, made to a local account.
(H) Income from float-funded activities: The full amount of income expected to be generated by a float-funded activity must be shown, whether or
not some or all of the income is expected to be received in a future program year. To assure that citizens understand the risks inherent in undertaking float-funded activities, the recipient must specify the total amount of program income expected to be received and the month(s) and year(s) that it expects the float-funded activity to generate such program income.
(iii) An “urgent needs” activity (one that is expected to qualify under § 570.208(c) of this title) may be included only if the jurisdiction identifies the activity in the action plan and certifies that the activity is designed to meet other community development needs having a particular urgency because existing conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community and because other financial resources are not available.
(iv) The plan shall identify the estimated amount of CDBG funds that will be used for activities that benefit persons of low- and moderate-income. The information about activities shall be in sufficient detail, including location, to allow citizens to determine the degree to which they are affected.
(2)
HOME.
(i) The HOME program resources that the participating jurisdiction must describe in the action plan are the fiscal year HOME allocation plus the amount of program income, repayments, and recaptured funds in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund local account (see 24 CFR 92.500(c)(1)) at the beginning of the participating jurisdiction's program year. The jurisdiction may choose to include program income, repayments, and recaptured funds that are expected to be received during the program year if the jurisdiction plans to commit these funds during the program year.
(ii) For HOME funds, a participating jurisdiction shall describe other forms of investment that are not described in 24 CFR 92.205(b). HUD's specific written approval to the jurisdiction is required for other forms of investment, as provided in § 92.205(b). Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under § 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action plan does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for other forms of investment.
(iii) If the participating jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds for homebuyers, it must set forth the guidelines for resale or recapture, and obtain HUD's specific, written approval, as required in 24 CFR 92.254. Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under § 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for resale or recapture guidelines.
(iv) If the participating jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds to refinance existing debt secured by multifamily housing that is being rehabilitated with HOME funds, it must state its refinancing guidelines required under 24 CFR 92.206(b). The guidelines shall describe the conditions under which the participating jurisdictions will refinance existing debt. At minimum, the guidelines must:
(A) Demonstrate that rehabilitation is the primary eligible activity and ensure that this requirement is met by establishing a minimum level of rehabilitation per unit or a required ratio between rehabilitation and refinancing.
(B) Require a review of management practices to demonstrate that disinvestment in the property has not occurred; that the long-term needs of the project can be met; and that the feasibility of serving the targeted population over an extended affordability period can be demonstrated.
(C) State whether the new investment is being made to maintain current affordable units, create additional affordable units, or both.
(D) Specify the required period of affordability, whether it is the minimum 15 years or longer.
(E) Specify whether the investment of HOME funds may be jurisdiction-wide or limited to a specific geographic area, such as a neighborhood identified in a neighborhood revitalization strategy under 24 CFR 91.215(g) or a federally designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community.
(F) State that HOME funds cannot be used to refinance multifamily loans made or insured by any federal program, including CDBG.
(v) If the participating jurisdiction intends to use HOME funds for homebuyer assistance or for rehabilitation of owner-occupied single family housing and does not use the HOME affordable homeownership limits for the area provided by HUD, it must determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price and set forth the information in accordance with 24 CFR 92.254(a)(2)(iii).
(vi) The jurisdiction must describe eligible applicants (e.g., categories of eligible applicants), describe its process for soliciting and funding applications or proposals (e.g., competition, first-come first-serve) and state where detailed information may be obtained (e.g., application packages are available at the office of the jurisdiction or on the jurisdiction's Web site).
(vii) The participating jurisdiction may limit the beneficiaries or give preferences to a particular segment of the low-income population only if described in the action plan.
(A) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in 24 CFR 92.350, and the participating jurisdiction must not limit or give preferences to students.
(B) A limitation or preference may include, in addition to targeting tenant- based rental assistance to persons with special needs, as provided in 24 CFR 92.209(c)(2), limiting beneficiaries or giving preferences to such professions as police officers, teachers, or artists.
(C) The participating jurisdiction must not limit beneficiaries or give a preference to all employees of the jurisdiction.
(D) The participating jurisdiction may permit rental housing owners to limit tenants or give a preference in accordance with 24 CFR 92.253(d) only if such limitation or preference is described in the action plan.
(viii) If the participating jurisdiction will receive funding under the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) (see 24 CFR part 92, subpart M), it must include:
(A) A description of the planned use of the ADDI funds;
(B) A plan for conducting targeted outreach to residents and tenants of public and manufactured housing and to other families assisted by public housing agencies, for the purposes of ensuring that the ADDI funds are used to provide downpayment assistance for such residents, tenants, and families; and
(C) A description of the actions to be taken to ensure the suitability of families receiving ADDI funds to undertake and maintain homeownership.
(3)
HOPWA.
For HOPWA funds, the jurisdiction must specify one-year goals for the number of households to be provided housing through the use of HOPWA activities for: short-term rent, mortgage, and utility assistance payments to prevent homelessness of the individual or family; tenant-based rental assistance; and units provided in housing facilities that are being developed, leased, or operated with HOPWA funds and shall identify the method of selecting project sponsors (including providing full access to grassroots faith-based and other community organizations).
(4)
ESG.
(i) The jurisdiction must include its written standards for providing ESG assistance. The minimum requirements regarding these standards are set forth in 24 CFR 576.400(e)(1) and (e)(3).
(ii) If the Continuum of Care for the jurisdiction's area has established a centralized or coordinated assessment system that meets HUD requirements, the jurisdiction must describe that centralized or coordinated assessment system. The requirements for using a centralized or coordinated assessment system, including the exception for victim service providers, are set forth under 24 CFR 576.400(d).
(iii) The jurisdiction must identify its process for making subawards and a description of how the jurisdiction intends to make its allocation available to private nonprofit organizations (including community and faith-based organizations), and in the case of urban counties, funding to participating units of local government.
(iv) If the jurisdiction is unable to meet the homeless participation requirement in 24 CFR 576.405(a), the jurisdiction must specify its plan for reaching out to and consulting with homeless or formerly homeless individuals in considering and making policies and decisions regarding any facilities
or services that receive funding under ESG.
(v) The jurisdiction must describe the performance standards for evaluating ESG activities.
(vi) The jurisdiction must describe its consultation with each Continuum of Care that serves the jurisdiction in determining how to allocate ESG funds each program year; developing the performance standards for, and evaluating the outcomes of, projects and activities assisted by ESG funds; and developing funding, policies, and procedures for the administration and operation of the HMIS.
(5)
Housing Trust Fund.
(i) If the jurisdiction receives HTF funds from the State under 24 CFR 93.105, the action plan must include the HTF allocation plan (consistent with the State's HTF requirements) that describes the distribution of the HTF funds, and establishes the application requirements and the criteria for selection of applications submitted by eligible recipients that meet the jurisdiction's priority housing needs. The plan must include the following:
(A) The plan must identify priority factors for funding that shall include the following: geographic distribution which is a description of the geographic areas of the State (including areas of low-income and minority concentration) in which it will direct assistance during the ensuing program year; the applicant's ability to obligate HTF funds and undertake eligible activities in a timely manner; in the case of rental housing projects, the extent to which rents for units in the project are affordable to extremely low-income families; in the case of rental housing projects, the duration of the units' affordability period; the merits of the application in meeting the priority housing needs of the jurisdiction (such as housing that is accessible to transit or employment centers, housing that includes green building and sustainable development features, and housing that serves special needs populations); the location of existing affordable housing, and the extent to which the application makes use of non-federal funding sources.
(B) The plan must include the requirement that the application contain a description of the eligible activities to be conducted with the HTF funds (as provided in 24 CFR 93.200) and contain a certification by each eligible recipient that housing units assisted with the HTF will comply with HTF requirements. The plan must also describe eligibility requirements for recipients (as defined in 24 CFR 93.2).
(C) The plan must provide for performance goals, consistent with the jurisdiction's goals established under 24 CFR 91.215(b)(2).
(D) The plan must provide the jurisdiction's rehabilitation standards, as required by 24 CFR 93.301(b).
(E) If the jurisdiction intends to use HTF funds for first-time homebuyers, it must set forth the guidelines for resale or recapture, and obtain HUD's specific, written approval, as required in § 93.304(f). Approval of the consolidated plan or action plan under § 91.500 or the failure to disapprove the consolidated plan or action plan does not satisfy the requirement for specific HUD approval for resale or recapture guidelines.
(F) If the jurisdiction intends to use HTF funds for homebuyer assistance and does not use the HTF affordable homeownership limits for the area provided by HUD, it must determine 95 percent of the median area purchase price and set forth the information in accordance with § 93.305.
(G) The jurisdiction may limit the beneficiaries or give preferences to a particular segment of the extremely low- or very low-income population only if described in the action plan.
(
1
) Any limitation or preference must not violate nondiscrimination requirements in 24 CFR 93.350, and the jurisdiction must not limit or give preferences to students.
(
2
) The jurisdiction may permit rental housing owners to limit tenants or give a preference in accordance with 24 CFR 93.303 only if such limitation or preference is described in the action plan.
(H) The plan must describe the conditions under which the jurisdiction will refinance existing rental housing project debt.
(ii) [Reserved].
[71 FR 6965, Feb. 9, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 75970, Dec. 5, 2011; 78 FR 44663, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 5219, Jan. 30, 2015; 80 FR 42364, July 16, 2015; 80 FR 69869, Nov. 12, 2015; 81 FR 86951, Dec. 2, 2016; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 863, Jan. 6, 2025, § 91.220 was amended. At 90 FR 8780, Feb. 3, 2025, the amendment was delayed until April 20, 2025.
§ 91.225
Certifications.
Link to an amendment published at 90 FR 11023, Mar. 3, 2025.
(a)
General.
The following certifications, satisfactory to HUD, must be included in the annual submission to HUD. (See definition of “certification” in § 91.5.)
(1)
Affirmatively furthering fair housing.
Each jurisdiction is required to submit a certification, consistent with §§ 5.151 and 5.152 of this title, that it will affirmatively further fair housing.
(2)
Anti-displacement and relocation plan.
Each jurisdiction is required to submit a certification that it has in effect and is following a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan in connection with any activity assisted with funding under the CDBG or HOME programs.
(3)
Anti-lobbying.
The jurisdiction must submit a certification with regard to compliance with restrictions on lobbying required by 24 CFR part 87, together with disclosure forms, if required by that part.
(4)
Authority of jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction must submit a certification that the consolidated plan is authorized under State and local law (as applicable) and that the jurisdiction possesses the legal authority to carry out the programs for which it is seeking funding, in accordance with applicable HUD regulations.
(5)
Consistency with plan.
The jurisdiction must submit a certification that the housing activities to be undertaken with CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA funds are consistent with the strategic plan. Where the HOPWA funds are to be received by a city that is the most populous unit of general local government in an EMSA, it must obtain and keep on file certifications of consistency from the authorized public officials for each other locality in the EMSA in which housing assistance is provided.
(6)
Acquisition and relocation.
