(B) Customer information identifying an individual or the individual's account, including the individual's account number, name or online user name, in combination with authenticating information such as information described in paragraph (d)(9)(ii)(A) of this section, or in combination with similar information that could be used to gain access to the customer's account such as an access code, a credit card expiration date, a partial Social Security number, a security code, a security question and answer identified with the individual or the individual's account, or the individual's date of birth, place of birth, or mother's maiden name.
(10)
Service provider
means any person or entity that receives, maintains, processes, or otherwise is permitted access to customer information through its provision of services directly to a covered institution.
(11)
Transfer agent
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(25) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(25)).
[89 FR 47786, June 3, 2024]
§§ 248.31-248.100
[Reserved]
Pt. 248, Subpt. A, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 248—Forms
A. Any person may view and print this form at:
http://www.sec.gov/about/forms/secforms.htm.
B. Use of Form S-P by brokers, dealers, and investment companies, and investment advisers registered with the Commission constitutes compliance with the notice content requirements of §§ 248.6 and 248.7 of this part.

# FORM S-P—Model Privacy Form

# A. The Model Privacy Form
ER01DE09.049
ER01DE09.050
ER01DE09.051
ER01DE09.052
ER01DE09.053
ER01DE09.054
ER01DE09.055

# B. General Instructions

# 1. How the Model Privacy Form is Used
(a) The model form may be used, at the option of a financial institution, including a group of financial institutions that use a common privacy notice, to meet the content requirements of the privacy notice and opt-out notice set forth in §§ 248.6 and 248.7 of this part.
(b) The model form is a standardized form, including page layout, content, format, style, pagination, and shading. Institutions seeking to obtain the safe harbor through use of the model form may modify it only as described in these instructions.
(c) Note that disclosure of certain information, such as assets, income, and information from a consumer reporting agency, may give rise to obligations under the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681-1681x] (FCRA), such as a requirement to permit a consumer to opt out of disclosures to affiliates or designation as a consumer reporting agency if disclosures are made to nonaffiliated third parties.
(d) The word “customer” may be replaced by the word “member” whenever it appears in the model form, as appropriate.

# 2. The Contents of the Model Privacy Form
The model form consists of two pages, which may be printed on both sides of a single sheet of paper, or may appear on two separate pages. Where an institution provides a long list of institutions at the end of the model form in accordance with Instruction C.3(a)(1), or provides additional information in accordance with Instruction C.3(c), and such list or additional information exceeds the space available on page two of the model form, such list or additional information may extend to a third page.
(a)
Page One.
The first page consists of the following components:
(1) Date last revised (upper right-hand corner).
(2) Title.
(3) Key frame (Why?, What?, How?).
(4) Disclosure table (“Reasons we can share your personal information”).
(5) “To limit our sharing” box, as needed, for the financial institution's opt-out information.
(6) “Questions” box, for customer service contact information.
(7) Mail-in opt-out form, as needed.
(b)
Page Two.
The second page consists of the following components:
(1) Heading (Page 2).
(2) Frequently Asked Questions (“Who we are” and “What we do”).
(3) Definitions.
(4) “Other important information” box, as needed.

# 3. The Format of the Model Privacy Form
The format of the model form may be modified only as described below.
(a)
Easily readable type font.
Financial institutions that use the model form must use an easily readable type font. While a number of factors together produce easily readable type font, institutions are required to use a minimum of 10-point font (unless otherwise expressly permitted in these Instructions) and sufficient spacing between the lines of type.
(b)
Logo.
A financial institution may include a corporate logo on any page of the notice, so long as it does not interfere with the
readability of the model form or the space constraints of each page.
(c)
Page size and orientation.
Each page of the model form must be printed on paper in portrait orientation, the size of which must be sufficient to meet the layout and minimum font size requirements, with sufficient white space on the top, bottom, and sides of the content.
(d)
Color.
The model form must be printed on white or light color paper (such as cream) with black or other contrasting ink color. Spot color may be used to achieve visual interest, so long as the color contrast is distinctive and the color does not detract from the readability of the model form. Logos may also be printed in color.
(e)
Languages.
The model form may be translated into languages other than English.

# C. Information Required in the Model Privacy Form
The information in the model form may be modified only as described below:

# 1. Name of the Institution or Group of Affiliated Institutions Providing the Notice
Insert the name of the financial institution providing the notice or a common identity of affiliated institutions jointly providing the notice on the form wherever [name of financial institution] appears.

# 2. Page One
(a)
Last revised date.
The financial institution must insert in the upper right-hand corner the date on which the notice was last revised. The information shall appear in minimum 8-point font as “rev. [month/year]” using either the name or number of the month, such as “rev. July 2009” or “rev. 7/09”.
(b)
General instructions for the “What?” box.
(1) The bulleted list identifies the types of personal information that the institution collects and shares. All institutions must use the term “Social Security number” in the first bullet.
(2) Institutions must use five (5) of the following terms to complete the bulleted list: income; account balances; payment history; transaction history; transaction or loss history; credit history; credit scores; assets; investment experience; credit-based insurance scores; insurance claim history; medical information; overdraft history; purchase history; account transactions; risk tolerance; medical-related debts; credit card or other debt; mortgage rates and payments; retirement assets; checking account information; employment information; wire transfer instructions.
(c)
General instructions for the disclosure table.
The left column lists reasons for sharing or using personal information. Each reason correlates to a specific legal provision described in paragraph C.2(d) of this Instruction. In the middle column, each institution must provide a “Yes” or “No” response that accurately reflects its information sharing policies and practices with respect to the reason listed on the left. In the right column, each institution must provide in each box one of the following three (3) responses, as applicable, that reflects whether a consumer can limit such sharing: “Yes” if it is required to or voluntarily provides an opt-out; “No” if it does not provide an opt-out; or “We don't share” if it answers “No” in the middle column. Only the sixth row (“For our affiliates to market to you”) may be omitted at the option of the institution.
See
paragraph C.2(d)(6) of this Instruction.
(d)
Specific disclosures and corresponding legal provisions.
(1)
For our everyday business purposes.
This reason incorporates sharing information under §§ 248.14 and 248.15 and with service providers pursuant to § 248.13 of this part other than the purposes specified in paragraphs C.2(d)(2) or C.2(d)(3) of these Instructions.
(2)
For our marketing purposes.
This reason incorporates sharing information with service providers by an institution for its own marketing pursuant to § 248.13 of this part. An institution that shares for this reason may choose to provide an opt-out.
(3)
For joint marketing with other financial companies.
This reason incorporates sharing information under joint marketing agreements between two or more financial institutions and with any service provider used in connection with such agreements pursuant to § 248.13 of this part. An institution that shares for this reason may choose to provide an opt-out.
(4)
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes—information about transactions and experiences.
This reason incorporates sharing information specified in sections 603(d)(2)(A)(i) and (ii) of the FCRA. An institution that shares for this reason may choose to provide an opt-out.
(5)
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes—information about creditworthiness.
This reason incorporates sharing information pursuant to section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the FCRA. An institution that shares for this reason must provide an opt-out.
(6)
For our affiliates to market to you.
This reason incorporates sharing information specified in section 624 of the FCRA. This reason may be omitted from the disclosure table when: the institution does not have affiliates (or does not disclose personal information to its affiliates); the institution's affiliates do not use personal information in a manner that requires an opt-out; or the institution provides the affiliate marketing notice separately. Institutions that include
this reason must provide an opt-out of indefinite duration. An institution that is required to provide an affiliate marketing opt-out, but does not include that opt-out in the model form under this part, must comply with section 624 of the FCRA and 17 CFR part 248, subpart B, with respect to the initial notice and opt-out and any subsequent renewal notice and opt-out. An institution not required to provide an opt-out under this subparagraph may elect to include this reason in the model form.
(7)
For nonaffiliates to market to you.
This reason incorporates sharing described in §§ 248.7 and 248.10(a) of this part. An institution that shares personal information for this reason must provide an opt-out.
(e)
To limit our sharing:
A financial institution must include this section of the model form
only
if it provides an opt-out. The word “choice” may be written in either the singular or plural, as appropriate. Institutions must select one or more of the applicable opt-out methods described: telephone, such as by a toll-free number; a Web site; or use of a mail-in opt-out form. Institutions may include the words “toll-free” before telephone, as appropriate. An institution that allows consumers to opt out online must provide either a specific Web address that takes consumers directly to the opt-out page or a general Web address that provides a clear and conspicuous direct link to the opt-out page. The opt-out choices made available to the consumer who contacts the institution through these methods must correspond accurately to the “Yes” responses in the third column of the disclosure table. In the part titled “Please note” institutions may insert a number that is 30 or greater in the space marked “[30].” Instructions on voluntary or state privacy law opt-out information are in paragraph C.2(g)(5) of these Instructions.
(f)
Questions box.
Customer service contact information must be inserted as appropriate, where [phone number] or [Web site] appear. Institutions may elect to provide either a phone number, such as a toll-free number, or a Web address, or both. Institutions may include the words “toll-free” before the telephone number, as appropriate.
(g)
Mail-in opt-out form.
Financial institutions must include this mail-in form
only
if they state in the “To limit our sharing” box that consumers can opt out by mail. The mail-in form must provide opt-out options that correspond accurately to the “Yes” responses in the third column in the disclosure table. Institutions that require customers to provide only name and address may omit the section identified as “[account #].” Institutions that require additional or different information, such as a random opt-out number or a truncated account number, to implement an opt-out election should modify the “[account #]” reference accordingly. This includes institutions that require customers with multiple accounts to identify each account to which the opt-out should apply. An institution must enter its opt-out mailing address: in the far right of this form (
see
version 3); or below the form (
see
version 4). The reverse side of the mail-in opt-out form must not include any content of the model form.
(1)
Joint accountholder.
Only institutions that provide their joint accountholders the choice to opt out for only one accountholder, in accordance with paragraph C.3(a)(5) of these Instructions, must include in the far left column of the mail-in form the following statement: “If you have a joint account, your choice(s) will apply to everyone on your account unless you mark below. □ Apply my choice(s) only to me.” The word “choice” may be written in either the singular or plural, as appropriate. Financial institutions that provide insurance products or services, provide this option, and elect to use the model form may substitute the word “policy” for “account” in this statement. Institutions that do not provide this option may eliminate this left column from the mail-in form.
(2)
FCRA Section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) opt-out.
If the institution shares personal information pursuant to section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the FCRA, it must include in the mail-in opt-out form the following statement: “□ Do not share information about my creditworthiness with your affiliates for their everyday business purposes.”
(3)
FCRA Section 624 opt-out.
If the institution incorporates section 624 of the FCRA in accord with paragraph C.2(d)(6) of these Instructions, it must include in the mail-in opt-out form the following statement: “□ Do not allow your affiliates to use my personal information to market to me.”
(4)
Nonaffiliate opt-out.
If the financial institution shares personal information pursuant to § 248.10(a) of this part, it must include in the mail-in opt-out form the following statement: “□ Do not share my personal information with nonaffiliates to market their products and services to me.”
(5)
Additional opt-outs.
Financial institutions that use the disclosure table to provide opt-out options beyond those required by Federal law must provide those opt-outs in this section of the model form. A financial institution that chooses to offer an opt-out for its own marketing in the mail-in opt-out form must include one of the two following statements: “□ Do not share my personal information to market to me.”
or
“□ Do not use my personal information to market to me.” A financial institution that chooses to offer an opt-out for joint marketing must include the following statement: “□ Do not share my personal information with other financial institutions to jointly market to me.”
(h)
Barcodes.
A financial institution may elect to include a barcode and/or “tagline” (an internal identifier) in 6-point font at the bottom of page one, as needed for information internal to the institution, so long as these do not interfere with the clarity or text of the form.

# 3. Page Two
(a)
General Instructions for the Questions.
Certain of the Questions may be customized as follows:
(1)
“Who is providing this notice?”
This question may be omitted where only one financial institution provides the model form and that institution is clearly identified in the title on page one. Two or more financial institutions that jointly provide the model form must use this question to identify themselves as required by § 248.9(f) of this part. Where the list of institutions exceeds four (4) lines, the institution must describe in the response to this question the general types of institutions jointly providing the notice and must separately identify those institutions, in minimum 8-point font, directly following the “Other important information” box, or, if that box is not included in the institution's form, directly following the “Definitions.” The list may appear in a multi-column format.
(2)
“How does [name of financial institution] protect my personal information?”
The financial institution may only provide additional information pertaining to its safeguards practices following the designated response to this question. Such information may include information about the institution's use of cookies or other measures it uses to safeguard personal information. Institutions are limited to a maximum of 30 additional words.
(3)
“How does [name of financial institution] collect my personal information?”
Institutions must use five (5) of the following terms to complete the bulleted list for this question: open an account; deposit money; pay your bills; apply for a loan; use your credit or debit card; seek financial or tax advice; apply for insurance; pay insurance premiums; file an insurance claim; seek advice about your investments; buy securities from us; sell securities to us; direct us to buy securities; direct us to sell your securities; make deposits or withdrawals from your account; enter into an investment advisory contract; give us your income information; provide employment information; give us your employment history; tell us about your investment or retirement portfolio; tell us about your investment or retirement earnings; apply for financing; apply for a lease; provide account information; give us your contact information; pay us by check; give us your wage statements; provide your mortgage information; make a wire transfer; tell us who receives the money; tell us where to send the money; show your government-issued ID; show your driver's license; order a commodity futures or option trade. Institutions that collect personal information from their affiliates and/or credit bureaus must include after the bulleted list the following statement: “We also collect your personal information from others, such as credit bureaus, affiliates, or other companies.” Institutions that do not collect personal information from their affiliates or credit bureaus but do collect information from other companies must include the following statement instead: “We also collect your personal information from other companies.” Only institutions that do not collect any personal information from affiliates, credit bureaus, or other companies can omit both statements.
(4)
“Why can't I limit all sharing?”
Institutions that describe state privacy law provisions in the
“Other important information”
box must use the bracketed sentence: “See below for more on your rights under state law.” Other institutions must omit this sentence.
(5)
“What happens when I limit sharing for an account I hold jointly with someone else?”
Only financial institutions that provide opt-out options must use this question. Other institutions must omit this question. Institutions must choose one of the following two statements to respond to this question: “Your choices will apply to everyone on your account.” or “Your choices will apply to everyone on your account—unless you tell us otherwise.” Financial institutions that provide insurance products or services and elect to use the model form may substitute the word “policy” for “account” in these statements.
(b)
General Instructions for the Definitions.
The financial institution must customize the space below the responses to the three definitions in this section. This specific information must be in italicized lettering to set off the information from the standardized definitions.
(1)
Affiliates.
As required by § 248.6(a)(3) of this part, where [
affiliate information
] appears, the financial institution must:
(i) If it has no affiliates, state: “[
name of financial institution
] has no affiliates;”
(ii) If it has affiliates but does not share personal information, state: “[
name of financial institution
] does not share with our affiliates;” or
(iii) If it shares with its affiliates, state, as applicable: “Our affiliates include companies with a [
common corporate identity of financial institution
] name; financial companies such as [
insert illustrative list of companies
]; nonfinancial companies, such as [
insert illustrative list of companies
] and others, such as [
insert illustrative list
].”
(2)
Nonaffiliates.
As required by § 248.6(c)(3) of this part, where [
nonaffiliate information
] appears, the financial institution must:
(i) If it does not share with nonaffiliated third parties, state: “[
name of financial institution
] does not share with nonaffiliates so they can market to you;” or
(ii) If it shares with nonaffiliated third parties, state, as applicable: “Nonaffiliates we share with can include [
list categories of companies such as mortgage companies, insurance companies, direct marketing companies, and nonprofit organizations
].”
(3)
Joint Marketing.
As required by § 248.13 of this part, where [
joint marketing
] appears, the financial institution must:
(i) If it does not engage in joint marketing, state: “[
name of financial institution
] doesn't jointly market;” or
(ii) If it shares personal information for joint marketing, state, as applicable: “Our joint marketing partners include [
list categories of companies such as credit card companies
].”
(c)
General instructions for the “Other important information” box.
This box is optional. The space provided for information in this box is not limited. Only the following types of information can appear in this box.
(1) State and/or international privacy law information; and/or
(2) Acknowledgment of receipt form.
[74 FR 62985, Dec. 1, 2009]

# Subpart B—Regulation S-AM: Limitations on Affiliate Marketing

# Source:
74 FR 40431, Aug. 11, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 248.101
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement section 624 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681,
et seq.
(“FCRA”). Section 624, which was added to the FCRA by section 214 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, Public Law 108-159, 117 Stat. 1952 (2003) (“FACT Act” or “Act”), regulates the use of consumer information received from an affiliate to make marketing solicitations.
(b)
Scope.
This subpart applies to any broker or dealer other than a notice-registered broker or dealer, to any investment company, and to any investment adviser or transfer agent registered with the Commission. These entities are referred to in this subpart as “you.”
§ 248.102
Examples.
The examples in this subpart are not exclusive. The examples in this subpart provide guidance concerning the rules' application in ordinary circumstances. The facts and circumstances of each individual situation, however, will determine whether compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this subpart. Examples in a paragraph illustrate only the issue described in the paragraph and do not illustrate any other issue that may arise under this subpart. Similarly, the examples do not illustrate any issues that may arise under other laws or regulations.
§§ 248.103-248.119
[Reserved]
§ 248.120
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, unless the context requires otherwise:
(a)
Affiliate
of a broker, dealer, or investment company, or an investment adviser or transfer agent registered with the Commission means any person that is related by common ownership or common control with the broker, dealer, or investment company, or the investment adviser or transfer agent registered with the Commission. In addition, a broker, dealer, or investment company, or an investment adviser or transfer agent registered with the Commission will be deemed an affiliate of a company for purposes of this subpart if:
(1) That company is regulated under section 214 of the FACT Act, Public Law 108-159, 117 Stat. 1952 (2003), by a government regulator other than the Commission; and
(2) Rules adopted by the other government regulator under section 214 of the FACT Act treat the broker, dealer, or investment company, or investment adviser or transfer agent registered with the Commission as an affiliate of that company.
(b)
Broker
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)). A “broker” does not include a broker registered by notice with the Commission under section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)).
(c)
Clear and conspicuous
means reasonably understandable and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information presented.
(d)
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(e)
Company
means any corporation, limited liability company, business trust, general or limited partnership, association, or similar organization.
(f)
Concise
—(1)
In general.
The term “concise” means a reasonably brief expression or statement.
(2)
Combination with other required disclosures.
A notice required by this subpart may be concise even if it is combined with other disclosures required or authorized by Federal or State law.
(g)
Consumer
means an individual.
(h)
Control
of a company means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Any person who owns beneficially, either directly or through one or more controlled companies, more than 25 percent of the voting securities of any company is presumed to control the company. Any person who does not own more than 25 percent of the voting securities of any company will be presumed not to control the company. Any presumption regarding control may be rebutted by evidence, but, in the case of an investment company, will continue until the Commission makes a decision to the contrary according to the procedures described in section 2(a)(9) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(9)).
(i)
Dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)). A “dealer” does not include a dealer registered by notice with the Commission under section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)).
(j)
Eligibility information
means any information the communication of which would be a consumer report if the exclusions from the definition of “consumer report” in section 603(d)(2)(A) of the FCRA did not apply. Eligibility information does not include aggregate or blind data that does not contain personal identifiers such as account numbers, names, or addresses.
(k)
FCRA
means the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681,
et seq.
).
(l)
GLBA
means the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801,
et seq.
).
(m)
Investment adviser
has the same meaning as in section 202(a)(11) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)).
(n)
Investment company
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3) and includes a separate series of the investment company.
(o)
Marketing solicitation
—(1)
In general.
The term “marketing solicitation” means the marketing of a product or service initiated by a person to a particular consumer that is:
(i) Based on eligibility information communicated to that person by its affiliate as described in this subpart; and
(ii) Intended to encourage the consumer to purchase or obtain such product or service.
(2)
Exclusion of marketing directed at the general public.
A marketing solicitation does not include marketing communications that are directed at the general public. For example, television, general circulation magazine, billboard advertisements and publicly available Web sites that are not directed to particular consumers would not constitute marketing solicitations, even if those communications are intended to encourage consumers to purchase products and services from the person initiating the communications.
(3)
Examples of marketing solicitations.
A marketing solicitation would include, for example, a telemarketing call, direct mail, e-mail, or other form of marketing communication directed to a particular consumer that is based on eligibility information received from an affiliate.
(p)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, association, government or governmental subdivision or agency, or other entity.
(q)
Pre-existing business relationship
—(1)
In general.
The term “pre-existing business relationship” means a relationship between a person, or a person's licensed agent, and a consumer based on:
(i) A financial contract between the person and the consumer which is in force on the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this subpart;
(ii) The purchase, rental, or lease by the consumer of the person's goods or services, or a financial transaction (including holding an active account or a policy in force or having another continuing relationship) between the consumer and the person, during the 18-month period immediately preceding the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this subpart; or
(iii) An inquiry or application by the consumer regarding a product or service offered by that person during the three-month period immediately preceding the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this subpart.
(2)
Examples of pre-existing business relationships.
(i) If a consumer has a brokerage account with a broker-dealer that is currently in force, the broker-dealer has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services.
(ii) If a consumer has an investment advisory contract with a registered investment adviser, the investment adviser has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services.
(iii) If a consumer was the record owner of securities issued by an investment company, but the consumer redeems these securities, the investment company has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for 18 months after the date the consumer redeemed the investment company's securities.
(iv) If a consumer applies for a margin account offered by a broker-dealer, but does not obtain a product or service from or enter into a financial contract or transaction with the broker-dealer, the broker-dealer has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can therefore use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for three months after the date of the application.
(v) If a consumer makes a telephone inquiry to a broker-dealer about its products or services and provides contact information to the broker-dealer, but does not obtain a product or service from or enter into a financial contract or transaction with the institution, the broker-dealer has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can therefore use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for three months after the date of the inquiry.
(vi) If a consumer makes an inquiry by e-mail to a broker-dealer about one of its affiliated investment company's products or services but does not obtain a product or service from, or enter into a financial contract or transaction with the broker-dealer or the investment company, the broker-dealer and the investment company both have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can therefore use eligibility information they receive from their affiliates to make solicitations to the consumer about their products or services for three months after the date of the inquiry.
(vii) If a consumer who has a pre-existing business relationship with an investment company that is part of a group of affiliated companies makes a telephone call to the centralized call center for the affiliated companies to inquire about products or services offered by a broker-dealer affiliated with the investment company, and provides contact information to the call center, the call constitutes an inquiry to the broker-dealer. In these circumstances, the broker-dealer has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and can therefore use eligibility information it receives from the investment company to make solicitations to the consumer about its products or services for three months after the date of the inquiry.
(3)
Examples where no pre-existing business relationship is created.
(i) If a consumer makes a telephone call to a centralized call center for a group of affiliated companies to inquire about the
consumer's existing account at a broker-dealer, the call does not constitute an inquiry to any affiliate other than the broker-dealer that holds the consumer's account and does not establish a pre-existing business relationship between the consumer and any affiliate of the account-holding broker-dealer.
(ii) If a consumer who has an advisory contract with a registered investment adviser makes a telephone call to an affiliate of the investment adviser to ask about the affiliate's retail locations and hours, but does not make an inquiry about the affiliate's products or services, the call does not constitute an inquiry and does not establish a pre-existing business relationship between the consumer and the affiliate. Also, the affiliate's capture of the consumer's telephone number does not constitute an inquiry and does not establish a pre-existing business relationship between the consumer and the affiliate.
(iii) If a consumer makes a telephone call to a broker-dealer in response to an advertisement offering a free promotional item to consumers who call a toll-free number, but the advertisement does not indicate that the broker-dealer's products or services will be marketed to consumers who call in response, the call does not create a pre-existing business relationship between the consumer and the broker-dealer because the consumer has not made an inquiry about a product or service offered by the institution, but has merely responded to an offer for a free promotional item.
(r)
Transfer agent
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(25) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(25)).
(s)
You
means:
(1) Any broker or dealer other than a broker or dealer registered by notice with the Commission under section 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11));
(2) Any investment company;
(3) Any investment adviser registered with the Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1,
et seq.
); and
(4) Any transfer agent registered with the Commission under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1).
§ 248.121
Affiliate marketing opt out and exceptions.
(a)
Initial notice and opt out requirement
—(1)
In general.
You may not use eligibility information about a consumer that you receive from an affiliate to make a marketing solicitation to the consumer, unless:
(i) It is clearly and conspicuously disclosed to the consumer in writing or, if the consumer agrees, electronically, in a concise notice that you may use eligibility information about that consumer received from an affiliate to make marketing solicitations to the consumer;
(ii) The consumer is provided a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to “opt out,” or the consumer prohibits you from using eligibility information to make marketing solicitations to the consumer; and
(iii) The consumer has not opted out.
(2)
Example.
A consumer has a brokerage account with a broker-dealer. The broker-dealer furnishes eligibility information about the consumer to its affiliated investment adviser. Based on that eligibility information, the investment adviser wants to make a marketing solicitation to the consumer about its discretionary advisory accounts. The investment adviser does not have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and none of the other exceptions apply. The investment adviser is prohibited from using eligibility information received from its broker-dealer affiliate to make marketing solicitations to the consumer about its discretionary advisory accounts unless the consumer is given a notice and opportunity to opt out and the consumer does not opt out.
(3)
Affiliates who may provide the notice.
The notice required by this paragraph must be provided:
(i) By an affiliate that has or has previously had a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer; or
(ii) As part of a joint notice from two or more members of an affiliated group of companies, provided that at least one of the affiliates on the joint notice
has or has previously had a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer.
(b)
Making marketing solicitations
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of this subpart, you make a marketing solicitation if:
(i) You receive eligibility information from an affiliate;
(ii) You use that eligibility information to do one or more of the following:
(A) Identify the consumer or type of consumer to receive a marketing solicitation;
(B) Establish criteria used to select the consumer to receive a marketing solicitation; or
(C) Decide which of your products or services to market to the consumer or tailor your marketing solicitation to that consumer; and
(iii) As a result of your use of the eligibility information, the consumer is provided a marketing solicitation.
(2)
Receiving eligibility information from an affiliate, including through a common database.
You may receive eligibility information from an affiliate in various ways, including when the affiliate places that information into a common database that you may access.
(3)
Receipt or use of eligibility information by your service provider.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, you receive or use an affiliate's eligibility information if a service provider acting on your behalf (whether an affiliate or a nonaffiliated third party) receives or uses that information in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section. All relevant facts and circumstances will determine whether a person is acting as your service provider when it receives or uses an affiliate's eligibility information in connection with marketing your products and services.
(4)
Use by an affiliate of its own eligibility information.
Unless you have used eligibility information that you receive from an affiliate in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, you do not make a marketing solicitation subject to this subpart if your affiliate:
(i) Uses its own eligibility information that it obtained in connection with a pre-existing business relationship it has or had with the consumer to market your products or services to the affiliate's consumer; or
(ii) Directs its service provider to use the affiliate's own eligibility information that it obtained in connection with a pre-existing business relationship it has or had with the consumer to market your products or services to the consumer, and you do not communicate directly with the service provider regarding that use.
(5)
Use of eligibility information by a service provider
—(i)
In general.
You do not make a marketing solicitation subject to this subpart if a service provider (including an affiliated or third-party service provider that maintains or accesses a common database that you may access) receives eligibility information from your affiliate that your affiliate obtained in connection with a pre-existing business relationship it has or had with the consumer and uses that eligibility information to market your products or services to that affiliate's consumer, so long as:
(A) Your affiliate controls access to and use of its eligibility information by the service provider (including the right to establish the specific terms and conditions under which the service provider may use such information to market your products or services);
(B) Your affiliate establishes specific terms and conditions under which the service provider may access and use your affiliate's eligibility information to market your products and services (or those of affiliates generally) to your affiliate's consumers, such as the identity of the affiliated companies whose products or services may be marketed to the affiliate's consumers by the service provider, the types of products or services of affiliated companies that may be marketed, and the number of times your affiliate's consumers may receive marketing materials, and periodically evaluates the service provider's compliance with those terms and conditions;
(C) Your affiliate requires the service provider to implement reasonable policies and procedures designed to ensure that the service provider uses your affiliate's eligibility information in accordance with the terms and conditions established by your affiliate relating to
the marketing of your products or services;
(D) Your affiliate is identified on or with the marketing materials provided to the consumer; and
(E) You do not directly use your affiliate's eligibility information in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Writing requirements.
(A) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) and (C) of this section must be set forth in a written agreement between your affiliate and the service provider; and
(B) The specific terms and conditions established by your affiliate as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(i)(B) of this section must be set forth in writing.
(6)
Examples of making marketing solicitations.
(i) A consumer has an investment advisory contract with a registered investment adviser that is affiliated with a broker-dealer. The broker-dealer receives eligibility information about the consumer from the investment adviser. The broker-dealer uses that eligibility information to identify the consumer to receive a marketing solicitation about brokerage products and services, and, as a result, the broker-dealer provides a marketing solicitation to the consumer about its brokerage services. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the broker-dealer has made a marketing solicitation to the consumer.
(ii) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, except that after using the eligibility information to identify the consumer to receive a marketing solicitation about brokerage products and services, the broker-dealer asks the registered investment adviser to send the marketing solicitation to the consumer and the investment adviser does so. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the broker-dealer has made a marketing solicitation to the consumer because it used eligibility information about the consumer that it received from an affiliate to identify the consumer to receive a marketing solicitation about its products or services, and, as a result, a marketing solicitation was provided to the consumer about the broker-dealer's products and services.
(iii) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, except that eligibility information about consumers who have an investment advisory contract with a registered investment adviser is placed into a common database that all members of the affiliated group of companies may independently access and use. Without using the investment adviser's eligibility information, the broker-dealer develops selection criteria and provides those criteria, marketing materials, and related instructions to the investment adviser. The investment adviser reviews eligibility information about its own consumers using the selection criteria provided by the broker-dealer to determine which consumers should receive the broker-dealer's marketing materials and sends the broker-dealer's marketing materials to those consumers. Even though the broker-dealer has received eligibility information through the common database as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it did not use that information to identify consumers or establish selection criteria; instead, the investment adviser used its own eligibility information. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the broker-dealer has not made a marketing solicitation to the consumer.
(iv) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section, except that the registered investment adviser provides the broker-dealer's criteria to the investment adviser's service provider and directs the service provider to use the investment adviser's eligibility information to identify investment adviser consumers who meet the criteria and to send the broker-dealer's marketing materials to those consumers. The broker-dealer does not communicate directly with the service provider regarding the use of the investment adviser's information to market its products or services to the investment adviser's consumers. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the broker-dealer has not made a marketing solicitation to the consumer.
(v) An affiliated group of companies includes an investment company, a principal underwriter for the investment company, a retail broker-dealer,
and a transfer agent that also acts as a service provider. Each affiliate in the group places information about its consumers into a common database. The service provider has access to all information in the common database. The investment company controls access to and use of its eligibility information by the service provider. This control is set forth in a written agreement between the investment company and the service provider. The written agreement also requires the service provider to establish reasonable policies and procedures designed to ensure that the service provider uses the investment company's eligibility information in accordance with specific terms and conditions established by the investment company relating to the marketing of the products and services of all affiliates, including the principal underwriter and the retail broker-dealer. In a separate written communication, the investment company specifies the terms and conditions under which the service provider may use the investment company's eligibility information to market the retail broker-dealer's products and services to the investment company's consumers. The specific terms and conditions are: a list of affiliated companies (including the retail broker-dealer) whose products or services may be marketed to the investment company's consumers by the service provider; the specific products or services or types of products or services that may be marketed to the investment company's consumers by the service provider; the categories of eligibility information that may be used by the service provider in marketing products or services to the investment company's consumers; the types or categories of the investment company's consumers to whom the service provider may market products or services of investment company affiliates; the number and types of marketing communications that the service provider may send to the investment company's consumers; and the length of time during which the service provider may market the products or services of the investment company's affiliates to its consumers. The investment company periodically evaluates the service provider's compliance with these terms and conditions. The retail broker-dealer asks the service provider to market brokerage services to certain of the investment company's consumers. Without using the investment company's eligibility information, the retail broker-dealer develops selection criteria and provides those criteria, its marketing materials, and related instructions to the service provider. The service provider uses the investment company's eligibility information from the common database to identify the investment company's consumers to whom brokerage services will be marketed. When the retail broker-dealer's marketing materials are provided to the identified consumers, the name of the investment company is displayed on the retail broker-dealer's marketing materials, an introductory letter that accompanies the marketing materials, an account statement that accompanies the marketing materials, or the envelope containing the marketing materials. The requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section have been satisfied, and the retail broker-dealer has not made a marketing solicitation to the consumer.
(vi) The same facts as in the example in paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section, except that the terms and conditions permit the service provider to use the investment company's eligibility information to market the products and services of other affiliates to the investment company's consumers whenever the service provider deems it appropriate to do so. The service provider uses the investment company's eligibility information in accordance with the discretion afforded to it by the terms and conditions. Because the terms and conditions are not specific, the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section have not been satisfied.
(c)
Exceptions.
The provisions of this subpart do not apply to you if you use eligibility information that you receive from an affiliate:
(1) To make a marketing solicitation to a consumer with whom you have a pre-existing business relationship;
(2) To facilitate communications to an individual for whose benefit you provide employee benefit or other services pursuant to a contract with an employer related to and arising out of the
current employment relationship or status of the individual as a participant or beneficiary of an employee benefit plan;
(3) To perform services on behalf of an affiliate, except that this paragraph shall not be construed as permitting you to send marketing solicitations on behalf of an affiliate if the affiliate would not be permitted to send the marketing solicitation as a result of the election of the consumer to opt out under this subpart;
(4) In response to a communication about your products or services initiated by the consumer;
(5) In response to an authorization or request by the consumer to receive solicitations; or
(6) If your compliance with this subpart would prevent you from complying with any provision of State insurance laws pertaining to unfair discrimination in any State in which you are lawfully doing business.
(d)
Examples of exceptions
—(1)
Example of the pre-existing business relationship exception.
A consumer has a brokerage account with a broker-dealer. The consumer also has a deposit account with the broker-dealer's affiliated depository institution. The broker-dealer receives eligibility information about the consumer from its depository institution affiliate and uses that information to make a marketing solicitation to the consumer about the broker-dealer's college savings accounts. The broker-dealer may make this marketing solicitation even if the consumer has not been given a notice and opportunity to opt out because the broker-dealer has a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer.
(2)
Examples of service provider exception.
(i) A consumer has a brokerage account with a broker-dealer. The broker-dealer furnishes eligibility information about the consumer to its affiliate, a registered investment adviser. Based on that eligibility information, the investment adviser wants to make a marketing solicitation to the consumer about its advisory services. The investment adviser does not have a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and none of the other exceptions in paragraph (c) of this section apply. The consumer has been given an opt out notice and has elected to opt out of receiving such marketing solicitations. The investment adviser asks a service provider to send the marketing solicitation to the consumer on its behalf. The service provider may not send the marketing solicitation on behalf of the investment adviser because, as a result of the consumer's opt out election, the investment adviser is not permitted to make the marketing solicitation.
(ii) The same facts as in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, except the consumer has been given an opt out notice, but has not elected to opt out. The investment adviser asks a service provider to send the solicitation to the consumer on its behalf. The service provider may send the marketing solicitation on behalf of the investment adviser because, as a result of the consumer's not opting out, the investment adviser is permitted to make the marketing solicitation.
(3)
Examples of consumer-initiated communications.
(i) A consumer who is the record owner of shares in an investment company initiates a communication with an affiliated registered investment adviser about advisory services. The affiliated investment adviser may use eligibility information about the consumer it obtains from the investment company or any other affiliate to make marketing solicitations regarding the affiliated investment adviser's services in response to the consumer-initiated communication.
(ii) A consumer who has a brokerage account with a broker-dealer contacts the broker-dealer to request information about how to save and invest for a child's college education without specifying the type of savings or investment vehicle in which the consumer may be interested. Information about a range of different products or services offered by the broker-dealer and one or more of its affiliates may be responsive to that communication. Such products, services, and investments may include the following: investments in affiliated investment companies; investments in section 529 plans offered by the broker-dealer; or trust services offered by a different financial institution in the affiliated group. Any affiliate offering
products or services that would be responsive to the consumer's request for information about saving and investing for a child's college education may use eligibility information to make marketing solicitations to the consumer in response to this communication.
(iii) A registered investment adviser makes a marketing call to the consumer without using eligibility information received from an affiliate. The investment adviser leaves a voice-mail message that invites the consumer to call a toll-free number to receive information about services offered by the investment adviser. If the consumer calls the toll-free number to inquire about the investment advisory services, the call is a consumer-initiated communication about a product or service, and the investment adviser may now use eligibility information it receives from its affiliates to make marketing solicitations to the consumer.
(iv) A consumer calls a broker-dealer to ask about retail locations and hours, but does not request information about its products or services. The broker-dealer may not use eligibility information it receives from an affiliate to make marketing solicitations to the consumer because the consumer-initiated communication does not relate to the broker-dealer's products or services. Thus, the use of eligibility information received from an affiliate would not be responsive to the communication and the exception does not apply.
(v) A consumer calls a broker-dealer to ask about retail locations and hours. The customer service representative asks the consumer if there is a particular product or service about which the consumer is seeking information. The consumer responds that the consumer wants to stop in and find out about mutual funds (i.e., registered open-end investment companies). The customer service representative offers to provide that information by telephone and mail additional information to the consumer. The consumer agrees and provides or confirms contact information for receipt of the materials to be mailed. The broker-dealer may use eligibility information it receives from an affiliate to make marketing solicitations to the consumer about mutual funds because such marketing solicitations would respond to the consumer-initiated communication about mutual funds.
(4)
Examples of consumer authorization or request for marketing solicitations.
(i) A consumer who has a brokerage account with a broker-dealer authorizes or requests information about life insurance offered by the broker-dealer's insurance affiliate. The authorization or request, whether given to the broker-dealer or the insurance affiliate, would permit the insurance affiliate to use eligibility information about the consumer it obtains from the broker-dealer or any other affiliate to make marketing solicitations to the consumer about life insurance.
(ii) A consumer completes an online application to open an online brokerage account with a broker-dealer. The broker-dealer's online application contains a blank check box that the consumer may check to authorize or request information from the broker-dealer's affiliates. The consumer checks the box. The consumer has authorized or requested marketing solicitations from the broker-dealer's affiliates.
(iii) A consumer completes an online application to open an online brokerage account with a broker-dealer. The broker-dealer's online application contains a check box indicating that the consumer authorizes or requests information from the broker-dealer's affiliates. The consumer does not deselect the check box. The consumer has not authorized or requested marketing solicitations from the broker-dealer's affiliates.
(iv) The terms and conditions of a brokerage account agreement contain preprinted boilerplate language stating that by applying to open an account the consumer authorizes or requests to receive solicitations from the broker-dealer's affiliates. The consumer has not authorized or requested marketing solicitations from the broker-dealer's affiliates.
(e)
Relation to affiliate-sharing notice and opt out.
Nothing in this subpart limits the responsibility of a person to comply with the notice and opt out provisions of Section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of
the FCRA (15 U.S.C. 1681a(d)(2)(A)(iii)) where applicable.
§ 248.122
Scope and duration of opt out.
(a)
Scope of opt out
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the consumer's election to opt out prohibits any affiliate covered by the opt out notice from using eligibility information received from another affiliate as described in the notice to make marketing solicitations to the consumer.
(2)
Continuing relationship
—(i)
In general.
If the consumer establishes a continuing relationship with you or your affiliate, an opt out notice may apply to eligibility information obtained in connection with:
(A) A single continuing relationship or multiple continuing relationships that the consumer establishes with you or your affiliates, including continuing relationships established subsequent to delivery of the opt out notice, so long as the notice adequately describes the continuing relationships covered by the opt out; or
(B) Any other transaction between the consumer and you or your affiliates as described in the notice.
(ii)
Examples of continuing relationships.
A consumer has a continuing relationship with you or your affiliate if the consumer:
(A) Opens a brokerage account or enters into an advisory contract with you or your affiliate;
(B) Obtains a loan for which you or your affiliate owns the servicing rights;
(C) Purchases investment company shares in his or her own name;
(D) Holds an investment through you or your affiliate; such as when you act or your affiliate acts as a custodian for securities or for assets in an individual retirement arrangement;
(E) Enters into an agreement or understanding with you or your affiliate whereby you or your affiliate undertakes to arrange or broker a home mortgage loan for the consumer;
(F) Enters into a lease of personal property with you or your affiliate; or
(G) Obtains financial, investment, or economic advisory services from you or your affiliate for a fee.
(3)
No continuing relationship
—(i)
In general.
If there is no continuing relationship between a consumer and you or your affiliate, and you or your affiliate obtain eligibility information about a consumer in connection with a transaction with the consumer, such as an isolated transaction or an application that is denied, an opt out notice provided to the consumer only applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with that transaction.
(ii)
Examples of isolated transactions.
An isolated transaction occurs if:
(A) The consumer uses your or your affiliate's ATM to withdraw cash from an account at another financial institution; or
(B) A broker-dealer opens a brokerage account for the consumer solely for the purpose of liquidating or purchasing securities as an accommodation, i.e., on a one-time basis, without the expectation of engaging in other transactions.
(4)
Menu of alternatives.
A consumer may be given the opportunity to choose from a menu of alternatives when electing to prohibit solicitations, such as by electing to prohibit solicitations from certain types of affiliates covered by the opt out notice but not other types of affiliates covered by the notice, electing to prohibit marketing solicitations based on certain types of eligibility information but not other types of eligibility information, or electing to prohibit marketing solicitations by certain methods of delivery but not other methods of delivery. However, one of the alternatives must allow the consumer to prohibit all marketing solicitations from all of the affiliates that are covered by the notice.
(5)
Special rule for a notice following termination of all continuing relationships
—(i)
In general.
A consumer must be given a new opt out notice if, after all continuing relationships with you or your affiliate(s) are terminated, the consumer subsequently establishes another continuing relationship with you or your affiliate(s) and the consumer's eligibility information is to be used to make a marketing solicitation. The new opt out notice must apply, at a minimum, to eligibility information obtained in connection with the new continuing relationship. Consistent
with paragraph (b) of this section, the consumer's decision not to opt out after receiving the new opt out notice would not override a prior opt out election by the consumer that applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with a terminated relationship, regardless of whether the new opt out notice applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with the terminated relationship.
(ii)
Example.
A consumer has an advisory contract with a company that is registered with the Commission as both a broker-dealer and an investment adviser, and that is part of an affiliated group. The consumer terminates the advisory contract. One year after terminating the advisory contract, the consumer opens a brokerage account with the same company. The consumer must be given a new notice and opportunity to opt out before the company's affiliates may make marketing solicitations to the consumer using eligibility information obtained by the company in connection with the new brokerage account relationship, regardless of whether the consumer opted out in connection with the advisory contract.
(b)
Duration of opt out.
The election of a consumer to opt out must be effective for a period of at least five years (the “opt out period”) beginning when the consumer's opt out election is received and implemented, unless the consumer subsequently revokes the opt out in writing or, if the consumer agrees, electronically. An opt out period of more than five years may be established, including an opt out period that does not expire unless revoked by the consumer.
(c)
Time of opt out.
A consumer may opt out at any time.
§ 248.123
Contents of opt out notice; consolidated and equivalent notices.
(a)
Contents of opt out notice
—(1)
In general.
A notice must be clear, conspicuous, and concise, and must accurately disclose:
(i)
The name of the affiliate(s) providing the notice.
If the notice is provided jointly by multiple affiliates and each affiliate shares a common name, such as “ABC,” then the notice may indicate that it is being provided by multiple companies with the ABC name or multiple companies in the ABC group or family of companies, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC companies,” “the ABC banking, credit card, insurance, and securities companies,” or by listing the name of each affiliate providing the notice. But if the affiliates providing the joint notice do not all share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC and XYZ companies” or by “the ABC bank and securities companies and the XYZ insurance companies”;
(ii) A list of the affiliates or types of affiliates whose use of eligibility information is covered by the notice, which may include companies that become affiliates after the notice is provided to the consumer. If each affiliate covered by the notice shares a common name, such as “ABC,” then the notice may indicate that it applies to multiple companies with the ABC name or multiple companies in the ABC group or family of companies, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC companies,” “the ABC banking, credit card, insurance, and securities companies,” or by listing the name of each affiliate providing the notice. But if the affiliates covered by the notice do not all share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each covered affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates, for example, by stating that the notice applies to “all of the ABC and XYZ companies” or to “the ABC banking and securities companies and the XYZ insurance companies”;
(iii) A general description of the types of eligibility information that may be used to make marketing solicitations to the consumer;
(iv) That the consumer may elect to limit the use of eligibility information to make marketing solicitations to the consumer;
(v) That the consumer's election will apply for the specified period of time stated in the notice and, if applicable,
that the consumer will be allowed to renew the election once that period expires;
(vi) If the notice is provided to consumers who may have previously opted out, such as if a notice is provided to consumers annually, that the consumer who has chosen to limit marketing solicitations does not need to act again until the consumer receives a renewal notice; and
(vii) A reasonable and simple method for the consumer to opt out.
(2)
Joint relationships.
(i) If two or more consumers jointly obtain a product or service, a single opt out notice may be provided to the joint consumers. Any of the joint consumers may exercise the right to opt out.
(ii) The opt out notice must explain how an opt out direction by a joint consumer will be treated. An opt out direction by a joint consumer may be treated as applying to all of the associated joint consumers, or each joint consumer may be permitted to opt out separately. If each joint consumer is permitted to opt out separately, one of the joint consumers must be permitted to opt out on behalf of all of the joint consumers and the joint consumers must be permitted to exercise their separate rights to opt out in a single response.
(iii) It is impermissible to require all joint consumers to opt out before implementing any opt out direction.
(3)
Alternative contents.
If the consumer is afforded a broader right to opt out of receiving marketing than is required by this subpart, the requirements of this section may be satisfied by providing the consumer with a clear, conspicuous, and concise notice that accurately discloses the consumer's opt out rights.
(4)
Model notices.
Model notices are provided in the Appendix to this subpart.
(b)
Coordinated and consolidated notices.
A notice required by this subpart may be coordinated and consolidated with any other notice or disclosure required to be issued under any other provision of law by the entity providing the notice, including but not limited to the notice described in section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the FCRA (15 U.S.C. 1681a(d)(2)(A)(iii)) and the GLBA privacy notice.
(c)
Equivalent notices.
A notice or other disclosure that is equivalent to the notice required by this subpart, and that is provided to a consumer together with disclosures required by any other provision of law, satisfies the requirements of this section.
§ 248.124
Reasonable opportunity to opt out.
(a)
In general.
You must not use eligibility information that you receive from an affiliate to make marketing solicitations to a consumer about your products or services unless the consumer is provided a reasonable opportunity to opt out, as required by § 248.121(a)(1)(ii).
(b)
Examples of a reasonable opportunity to opt out.
The consumer is given a reasonable opportunity to opt out if:
(1)
By mail.
The opt out notice is mailed to the consumer. The consumer is given 30 days from the date the notice is mailed to elect to opt out by any reasonable means.
(2)
By electronic means.
(i) The opt out notice is provided electronically to the consumer, such as by posting the notice at an Internet Web site at which the consumer has obtained a product or service. The consumer acknowledges receipt of the electronic notice. The consumer is given 30 days after the date the consumer acknowledges receipt to elect to opt out by any reasonable means.
(ii) The opt out notice is provided to the consumer by e-mail where the consumer has agreed to receive disclosures by e-mail from the person sending the notice. The consumer is given 30 days after the e-mail is sent to elect to opt out by any reasonable means.
(3)
At the time of an electronic transaction.
The opt out notice is provided to the consumer at the time of an electronic transaction, such as a transaction conducted on an Internet Web site. The consumer is required to decide, as a necessary part of proceeding with the transaction, whether to opt out before completing the transaction. There is a simple process that the consumer may use to opt out at that time using the same mechanism through which the transaction is conducted.
(4)
At the time of an in-person transaction.
The opt out notice is provided to the consumer in writing at the time of an in-person transaction. The consumer is required to decide, as a necessary part of proceeding with the transaction, whether to opt out before completing the transaction, and is not permitted to complete the transaction without making a choice. There is a simple process that the consumer may use during the course of the in-person transaction to opt out, such as completing a form that requires consumers to write a “yes” or “no” to indicate their opt out preference or that requires the consumer to check one of two blank check boxes—one that allows consumers to indicate that they want to opt out and one that allows consumers to indicate that they do not want to opt out.
(5)
By including in a privacy notice.
The opt out notice is included in a GLBA privacy notice. The consumer is allowed to exercise the opt out within a reasonable period of time and in the same manner as the opt out under that privacy notice.
§ 248.125
Reasonable and simple methods of opting out.
(a)
In general.
You must not use eligibility information about a consumer that you receive from an affiliate to make a marketing solicitation to the consumer about your products or services, unless the consumer is provided a reasonable and simple method to opt out, as required by § 248.121(a)(1)(ii).
(b)
Examples
—(1)
Reasonable and simple opt out methods.
Reasonable and simple methods for exercising the opt out right include:
(i) Designating a check-off box in a prominent position on the opt out form;
(ii) Including a reply form and a self-addressed envelope together with the opt out notice;
(iii) Providing an electronic means to opt out, such as a form that can be electronically mailed or processed at an Internet Web site, if the consumer agrees to the electronic delivery of information;
(iv) Providing a toll-free telephone number that consumers may call to opt out; or
(v) Allowing consumers to exercise all of their opt out rights described in a consolidated opt out notice that includes the GLBA privacy, FCRA affiliate sharing, and FCRA affiliate marketing opt outs, by a single method, such as by calling a single toll-free telephone number.
(2)
Opt out methods that are not reasonable and simple.
Reasonable and simple methods for exercising an opt out right
do not
include:
(i) Requiring the consumer to write his or her own letter;
(ii) Requiring the consumer to call or write to obtain a form for opting out, rather than including the form with the opt out notice; or
(iii) Requiring the consumer who receives the opt out notice in electronic form only, such as through posting at an Internet Web site, to opt out solely by paper mail or by visiting a different Web site without providing a link to that site.
(c)
Specific opt out means.
Each consumer may be required to opt out through a specific means, as long as that means is reasonable and simple for that consumer.
§ 248.126
Delivery of opt out notices.
(a)
In general.
The opt out notice must be provided so that each consumer can reasonably be expected to receive actual notice. For opt out notices provided electronically, the notice may be provided in compliance with either the electronic disclosure provisions in this subpart or the provisions in section 101 of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. 7001,
et seq.
(b)
Examples of reasonable expectation of actual notice.
A consumer may reasonably be expected to receive actual notice if the affiliate providing the notice:
(1) Hand-delivers a printed copy of the notice to the consumer;
(2) Mails a printed copy of the notice to the last known mailing address of the consumer;
(3) Provides a notice by e-mail to a consumer who has agreed to receive electronic disclosures by e-mail from the affiliate providing the notice; or
(4) Posts the notice on the Internet Web site at which the consumer obtained a product or service electronically and requires the consumer to acknowledge receipt of the notice.
(c)
Examples of no reasonable expectation of actual notice.
A consumer may not reasonably be expected to receive actual notice if the affiliate providing the notice:
(1) Only posts the notice on a sign in a branch or office or generally publishes the notice in a newspaper;
(2) Sends the notice by e-mail to a consumer who has not agreed to receive electronic disclosures by e-mail from the affiliate providing the notice; or
(3) Posts the notice on an Internet Web site without requiring the consumer to acknowledge receipt of the notice.
§ 248.127
Renewal of opt out elections.
(a)
Renewal notice and opt out requirement
—(1)
In general.
After the opt out period expires, you may not make marketing solicitations to a consumer who previously opted out, unless:
(i) The consumer has been given a renewal notice that complies with the requirements of this section and §§ 248.124 through 248.126, and a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to renew the opt out, and the consumer does not renew the opt out; or
(ii) An exception in § 248.121(c) applies.
(2)
Renewal period.
Each opt out renewal must be effective for a period of at least five years as provided in § 248.122(b).
(3)
Affiliates who may provide the notice.
The notice required by this paragraph must be provided:
(i) By the affiliate that provided the previous opt out notice, or its successor; or
(ii) As part of a joint renewal notice from two or more members of an affiliated group of companies, or their successors, that jointly provided the previous opt out notice.
(b)
Contents of renewal notice.
The renewal notice must be clear, conspicuous, and concise, and must accurately disclose:
(1) The name of the affiliate(s) providing the notice. If the notice is provided jointly by multiple affiliates and each affiliate shares a common name, such as “ABC,” then the notice may indicate it is being provided by multiple companies with the ABC name or multiple companies in the ABC group or family of companies, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC companies,” “the ABC banking, credit card, insurance, and securities companies,” or by listing the name of each affiliate providing the notice. But if the affiliates providing the joint notice do not all share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC and XYZ companies” or by “the ABC banking and securities companies and the XYZ insurance companies”;
(2) A list of the affiliates or types of affiliates whose use of eligibility information is covered by the notice, which may include companies that become affiliates after the notice is provided to the consumer. If each affiliate covered by the notice shares a common name, such as “ABC,” then the notice may indicate that it applies to multiple companies with the ABC name or multiple companies in the ABC group or family of companies, for example, by stating that the notice is provided by “all of the ABC companies,” “the ABC banking, credit card, insurance, and securities companies,” or by listing the name of each affiliate providing the notice. But if the affiliates covered by the notice do not all share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each covered affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates, for example, by stating that the notice applies to “all of the ABC and XYZ companies” or to “the ABC banking and securities companies and the XYZ insurance companies”;
(3) A general description of the types of eligibility information that may be used to make marketing solicitations to the consumer;
(4) That the consumer previously elected to limit the use of certain information to make marketing solicitations to the consumer;
(5) That the consumer's election has expired or is about to expire;
(6) That the consumer may elect to renew the consumer's previous election;
(7) If applicable, that the consumer's election to renew will apply for the specified period of time stated in the notice and that the consumer will be allowed to renew the election once that period expires; and
(8) A reasonable and simple method for the consumer to opt out.
(c)
Timing of the renewal notice
—(1)
In general.
A renewal notice may be provided to the consumer either:
(i) A reasonable period of time before the expiration of the opt out period; or
(ii) Any time after the expiration of the opt out period but before marketing solicitations that would have been prohibited by the expired opt out are made to the consumer.
(2)
Combination with annual privacy notice.
If you provide an annual privacy notice under the GLBA, providing a renewal notice with the last annual privacy notice provided to the consumer before expiration of the opt out period is a reasonable period of time before expiration of the opt out in all cases.
(d)
No effect on opt out period.
An opt out period may not be shortened by sending a renewal notice to the consumer before expiration of the opt out period, even if the consumer does not renew the opt out.
§ 248.128
Effective date, compliance date, and prospective application.
(a)
Effective date.
This subpart is effective September 10, 2009.
(b)
Mandatory compliance date.
Compliance with this subpart is required not later than January 1, 2010.
(c)
Prospective application.
The provisions of this subpart do not prohibit you from using eligibility information that you receive from an affiliate to make a marketing solicitation to a consumer if you receive such information prior to January 1, 2010. For purposes of this section, you are deemed to receive eligibility information when such information is placed into a common database and is accessible by you.
Pt. 248, Subpt. B, App.

# Appendix to Subpart B of Part 248—Model Forms
a. Although you and your affiliates are not required to use the model forms in this Appendix, use of a model form (if applicable to each person that uses it) complies with the requirement in section 624 of the FCRA for clear, conspicuous, and concise notices.
b. Although you may need to change the language or format of a model form to reflect your actual policies and procedures, any such changes may not be so extensive as to affect the substance, clarity, or meaningful sequence of the language in the model forms. Acceptable changes include, for example:
1. Rearranging the order of the references to “your income,” “your account history,” and “your credit score.”
2. Substituting other types of information for “income,” “account history,” or “credit score” for accuracy, such as “payment history,” “credit history,” “payoff status,” or “claims history.”
3. Substituting a clearer and more accurate description of the affiliates providing or covered by the notice for phrases such as “the [ABC] group of companies.”
4. Substituting other types of affiliates covered by the notice for “credit card,” “insurance,” or “securities” affiliates.
5. Omitting items that are not accurate or applicable. For example, if a person does not limit the duration of the opt out period, the notice may omit information about the renewal notice.
6. Adding a statement informing the consumer how much time they have to opt out before shared eligibility information may be used to make solicitations to them.
7. Adding a statement that the consumer may exercise the right to opt out at any time.
8. Adding the following statement, if accurate: “If you previously opted out, you do not need to do so again.”
9. Providing a place on the form for the consumer to fill in identifying information, such as his or her name and address.
10. Adding disclosures regarding the treatment of opt-outs by joint consumers to comply with § 248.123(a)(2), if applicable.

# A-1—Model Form for Initial Opt Out Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)

# A-2—Model Form for Initial Opt Out Notice (Joint Notice)

# A-3—Model Form for Renewal Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)

# A-4—Model Form for Renewal Notice (Joint Notice)

# A-5—Model Form for Voluntary “No Marketing” Notice

# A-1—Model Form for Initial Opt Out Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)—[Your Choice to Limit Marketing]/[Marketing Opt Out]
• [Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
• [Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from our affiliates. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from our affiliates.]
• You may limit our affiliates in the [ABC] group of companies, such as our [investment adviser, broker, transfer agent, and investment company] affiliates, from marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that we collect and share with them. This information includes your [income], your [account history with us], and your [credit score].
• Your choice to limit marketing offers from our affiliates will apply [until you tell us to change your choice]/[for x years from when you tell us your choice]/[for at least 5 years from when you tell us your choice]. [Include if the opt out period expires.] Once that period expires, you will receive a renewal notice that will allow you to continue to limit marketing offers from our affiliates for [another x years]/[at least another 5 years].
• [Include, if applicable, in a subsequent notice, including an annual notice, for consumers who may have previously opted out.] If you have already made a choice to limit marketing offers from our affiliates, you do not need to act again until you receive the renewal notice.
To limit marketing offers, contact us [include all that apply]:
• By telephone: 1-877-###-####
• On the Web:
www.—.com
• By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
Do not allow your affiliates to use my personal information to market to me.

# A-2—Model Form for Initial Opt Out Notice (Joint Notice)—[Your Choice to Limit Marketing]/[Marketing Opt Out]
• The [ABC group of companies] is providing this notice.
• [Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from the [ABC] companies. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from the [ABC] companies.]
• You may limit the [ABC] companies, such as the [ABC investment companies, investment advisers, transfer agents, and broker-dealers] affiliates, from marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that they receive from other [ABC] companies. This information includes your [income], your [account history], and your [credit score].
• Your choice to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies will apply [until you tell us to change your choice]/[for x years from when you tell us your choice]/[for at least 5 years from when you tell us your choice]. [Include if the opt out period expires.] Once that period expires, you will receive a renewal notice that will allow you to continue to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies for [another x years]/[at least another 5 years].
• [Include, if applicable, in a subsequent notice, including an annual notice, for consumers who may have previously opted out.] If you have already made a choice to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies, you do not need to act again until you receive the renewal notice.
To limit marketing offers, contact us [include all that apply]:
• By telephone: 1-877-###-####
• On the Web:
www.—.com
• By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
Do not allow any company [in the ABC group of companies] to use my personal information to market to me.

# A-3—Model Form for Renewal Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)—[Renewing Your Choice to Limit Marketing]/[Renewing Your Marketing Opt Out]
• [Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
• [Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from our affiliates. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from our affiliates.]
• You previously chose to limit our affiliates in the [ABC] group of companies, such
as our [investment adviser, investment company, transfer agent, and broker-dealer] affiliates, from marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that we share with them. This information includes your [income], your [account history with us], and your [credit score].
• Your choice has expired or is about to expire.
To renew your choice to limit marketing for [x] more years, contact us [include all that apply]:
• By telephone: 1-877-###-####
• On the Web:
www.—.com
• By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
Renew my choice to limit marketing for [x] more years.

# A-4—Model Form for Renewal Notice (Joint Notice)—[Renewing Your Choice to Limit Marketing]/[Renewing Your Marketing Opt Out]
• The [ABC group of companies] is providing this notice.
• [Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from the [ABC] companies. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from the [ABC] companies.]
• You previously chose to limit the [ABC] companies, such as the [ABC investment adviser, investment company, transfer agent, and broker-dealer] affiliates, from marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that they receive from other ABC companies. This information includes your [income], your [account history], and your [credit score].
• Your choice has expired or is about to expire.
To renew your choice to limit marketing for [x] more years, contact us [include all that apply]:
• By telephone: 1-877-###-####
• On the Web:
www.—.com
• By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
Renew my choice to limit marketing for [x] more years.

# A-5—Model Form for Voluntary “No Marketing” Notice—Your Choice to Stop Marketing
• [Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
• You may choose to stop all marketing from us and our affiliates.
• [Your choice to stop marketing from us and our affiliates will apply until you tell us to change your choice.]
To stop all marketing, contact us [include all that apply]:
• By telephone: 1-877-###-####
• On the Web:
www.—.com
• By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
Do not market to me.

# Subpart C—Regulation S-ID: Identity Theft Red Flags

# Source:
78 FR 23663, Apr. 17, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 248.201
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to a
financial institution
or
creditor,
as defined in the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681), that is:
(1) A broker, dealer or any other person that is registered or required to be registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(2) An investment company that is registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, that has elected to be regulated as a business development company under that Act, or that operates as an employees' securities company under that Act; or
(3) An investment adviser that is registered or required to be registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, and Appendix A of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Account
means a continuing relationship established by a person with a financial institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family, household or business purposes. Account includes a brokerage account, a
mutual fund
account (
i.e.,
an account with an open-end investment company), and an investment advisory account.
(2) The term
board of directors
includes:
(i) In the case of a branch or agency of a foreign financial institution or
creditor, the managing official of that branch or agency; and
(ii) In the case of a financial institution or creditor that does not have a board of directors, a designated employee at the level of senior management.
(3)
Covered account
means:
(i) An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a brokerage account with a broker-dealer or an account maintained by a mutual fund (or its agent) that permits wire transfers or other payments to third parties; and
(ii) Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.
(4)
Credit
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(5)
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4).
(6)
Customer
means a person that has a covered account with a financial institution or creditor.
(7)
Financial institution
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t).
(8)
Identifying information
means any name or number that may be used, alone or in conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person, including any—
(i) Name, Social Security number, date of birth, official State or government issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number;
(ii) Unique biometric data, such as fingerprint, voice print, retina or iris image, or other unique physical representation;
(iii) Unique electronic identification number, address, or routing code; or
(iv) Telecommunication identifying information or access device (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1029(e)).
(9)
Identity theft
means a fraud committed or attempted using the identifying information of another person without authority.
(10)
Red Flag
means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.
(11)
Service provider
means a person that provides a service directly to the financial institution or creditor.
(12)
Other definitions.
(i)
Broker
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)).
(ii)
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(iii)
Dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(iv)
Investment adviser
has the same meaning as in section 202(a)(11) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)).
(v)
Investment company
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), and includes a separate series of the investment company.
(vi) Other terms not defined in this subpart have the same meaning as in the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
).
(c)
Periodic identification of covered accounts.
Each financial institution or creditor must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. As a part of this determination, a financial institution or creditor must conduct a risk assessment to determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, taking into consideration:
(1) The methods it provides to open its accounts;
(2) The methods it provides to access its accounts; and
(3) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(d)
Establishment of an Identity Theft Prevention Program
—
(1)
Program requirement.
Each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts must develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program (Program) that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of
a covered account or any existing covered account. The Program must be appropriate to the size and complexity of the financial institution or creditor and the nature and scope of its activities.
(2)
Elements of the Program.
The Program must include reasonable policies and procedures to:
(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the covered accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, and incorporate those Red Flags into its Program;
(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Program of the financial institution or creditor;
(iii) Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
(iv) Ensure the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) is updated periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.
(e)
Administration of the Program.
Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement a Program must provide for the continued administration of the Program and must:
(1) Obtain approval of the initial written Program from either its board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of directors;
(2) Involve the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated employee at the level of senior management in the oversight, development, implementation and administration of the Program;
(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement the Program; and
(4) Exercise appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements.
(f)
Guidelines.
Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement a Program must consider the guidelines in Appendix A to this subpart and include in its Program those guidelines that are appropriate.
§ 248.202
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to a person described in § 248.201(a) that issues a credit or debit card (card issuer).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Cardholder
means a consumer who has been issued a
credit card
or
debit card
as defined in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r).
(2)
Clear and conspicuous
means reasonably understandable and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information presented.
(3) Other terms not defined in this subpart have the same meaning as in the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
).
(c)
Address validation requirements.
A card issuer must establish and implement reasonable written policies and procedures to assess the validity of a change of address if it receives notification of a change of address for a consumer's debit or credit card account and, within a short period of time afterwards (during at least the first 30 days after it receives such notification), the card issuer receives a request for an additional or replacement card for the same account. Under these circumstances, the card issuer may not issue an additional or replacement card, until, in accordance with its reasonable policies and procedures and for the purpose of assessing the validity of the change of address, the card issuer:
(1)(i) Notifies the cardholder of the request:
(A) At the cardholder's former address; or
(B) By any other means of communication that the card issuer and the cardholder have previously agreed to use; and
(ii) Provides to the cardholder a reasonable means of promptly reporting incorrect address changes; or
(2) Otherwise assesses the validity of the change of address in accordance with the policies and procedures the card issuer has established pursuant to § 248.201.
(d)
Alternative timing of address validation.
A card issuer may satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section if it validates an address pursuant to the methods in paragraph (c)(1) or
(c)(2) of this section when it receives an address change notification, before it receives a request for an additional or replacement card.
(e)
Form of notice.
Any written or electronic notice that the card issuer provides under this paragraph must be clear and conspicuous and be provided separately from its regular correspondence with the cardholder.
Pt. 248, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 248—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation
Section 248.201 requires each financial institution and creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts, as defined in § 248.201(b)(3), to develop and provide for the continued administration of a written Program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. These guidelines are intended to assist financial institutions and creditors in the formulation and maintenance of a Program that satisfies the requirements of § 248.201.

# I. The Program
In designing its Program, a financial institution or creditor may incorporate, as appropriate, its existing policies, procedures, and other arrangements that control reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.

# II. Identifying Relevant Red Flags
(a)
Risk Factors.
A financial institution or creditor should consider the following factors in identifying relevant Red Flags for covered accounts, as appropriate:
(1) The types of covered accounts it offers or maintains;
(2) The methods it provides to open its covered accounts;
(3) The methods it provides to access its covered accounts; and
(4) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(b)
Sources of Red Flags.
Financial institutions and creditors should incorporate relevant Red Flags from sources such as:
(1) Incidents of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has experienced;
(2) Methods of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has identified that reflect changes in identity theft risks; and
(3) Applicable regulatory guidance.
(c)
Categories of Red Flags.
The Program should include relevant Red Flags from the following categories, as appropriate. Examples of Red Flags from each of these categories are appended as Supplement A to this Appendix A.
(1) Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies or service providers, such as fraud detection services;
(2) The presentation of suspicious documents;
(3) The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious address change;
(4) The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account; and
(5) Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the financial institution or creditor.

# III. Detecting Red Flags
The Program's policies and procedures should address the detection of Red Flags in connection with the opening of covered accounts and existing covered accounts, such as by:
(a) Obtaining identifying information about, and verifying the identity of, a person opening a covered account, for example, using the policies and procedures regarding identification and verification set forth in the Customer Identification Program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(
l
) (31 CFR 1023.220 (broker-dealers) and 1024.220 (mutual funds)); and
(b) Authenticating customers, monitoring transactions, and verifying the validity of change of address requests, in the case of existing covered accounts.

# IV. Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
The Program's policies and procedures should provide for appropriate responses to the Red Flags the financial institution or creditor has detected that are commensurate with the degree of risk posed. In determining an appropriate response, a financial institution or creditor should consider aggravating factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer's account records held by the financial institution, creditor, or third party, or notice that a customer has provided information related to a covered account held by the financial institution or creditor to someone fraudulently claiming to represent the financial institution or creditor or to a fraudulent Web site. Appropriate responses may include the following:
(a) Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
(b) Contacting the customer;
(c) Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that permit access to a covered account;
(d) Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
(e) Not opening a new covered account;
(f) Closing an existing covered account;
(g) Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered account to a debt collector;
(h) Notifying law enforcement; or
(i) Determining that no response is warranted under the particular circumstances.

# V. Updating the Program
Financial institutions and creditors should update the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, based on factors such as:
(a) The experiences of the financial institution or creditor with identity theft;
(b) Changes in methods of identity theft;
(c) Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
(d) Changes in the types of accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains; and
(e) Changes in the business arrangements of the financial institution or creditor, including mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.

# VI. Methods for Administering the Program
(a)
Oversight of Program.
Oversight by the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management should include:
(1) Assigning specific responsibility for the Program's implementation;
(2) Reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 248.201; and
(3) Approving material changes to the Program as necessary to address changing identity theft risks.
(b)
Reports.
(1)
In general.
Staff of the financial institution or creditor responsible for development, implementation, and administration of its Program should report to the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management, at least annually, on compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 248.201.
(2)
Contents of report.
The report should address material matters related to the Program and evaluate issues such as: The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the financial institution or creditor in addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts; service provider arrangements; significant incidents involving identity theft and management's response; and recommendations for material changes to the Program.
(c)
Oversight of service provider arrangements.
Whenever a financial institution or creditor engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the financial institution or creditor should take steps to ensure that the activity of the service provider is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. For example, a financial institution or creditor could require the service provider by contract to have policies and procedures to detect relevant Red Flags that may arise in the performance of the service provider's activities, and either report the Red Flags to the financial institution or creditor, or to take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.

# VII. Other Applicable Legal Requirements
Financial institutions and creditors should be mindful of other related legal requirements that may be applicable, such as:
(a) For financial institutions and creditors that are subject to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), filing a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation;
(b) Implementing any requirements under 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(h) regarding the circumstances under which credit may be extended when the financial institution or creditor detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c) Implementing any requirements for furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2, for example, to correct or update inaccurate or incomplete information, and to not report information that the furnisher has reasonable cause to believe is inaccurate; and
(d) Complying with the prohibitions in 15 U.S.C. 1681m on the sale, transfer, and placement for collection of certain debts resulting from identity theft.

# Supplement A to Appendix A
In addition to incorporating Red Flags from the sources recommended in section II.b. of the Guidelines in Appendix A to this subpart, each financial institution or creditor may consider incorporating into its Program, whether singly or in combination, Red Flags from the following illustrative examples in connection with covered accounts:

# Alerts, Notifications or Warnings From a Consumer Reporting Agency
1. A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report.
2. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer report.
3. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy, as referenced in Sec. 605(h) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681c(h)).
4. A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
a. A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to recently established credit relationships; or
d. An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.

# Suspicious Documents
5. Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or forged.
6. The photograph or physical description on the identification is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the identification.
7. Other information on the identification is not consistent with information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer presenting the identification.
8. Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check.
9. An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.

# Suspicious Personal Identifying Information
10. Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when compared against external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File.
11. Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of birth.
12. Personal identifying information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is the same as the address provided on a fraudulent application; or
b. The phone number on an application is the same as the number provided on a fraudulent application.
13. Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison; or
b. The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or answering service.
14. The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons opening an account or other customers.
15. The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of other persons opening accounts or by other customers.
16. The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in response to notification that the application is incomplete.
17. Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with personal identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor.
18. For financial institutions and creditors that use challenge questions, the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer report.

# Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related to, the Covered Account
19. Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered account, the institution or creditor receives a request for a new, additional, or replacement means of accessing the account or for the addition of an authorized user on the account.
20. A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
a. Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
b. A material increase in the use of available credit;
c. A material change in purchasing or spending patterns; or
d. A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in connection with a deposit account.
21. A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
22. Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the customer's covered account.
23. The financial institution or creditor is notified that the customer is not receiving paper account statements.
24. The financial institution or creditor is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in connection with a customer's covered account.

# Notice From Customers, Victims of Identity Theft, Law Enforcement Authorities, or Other Persons Regarding Possible Identity Theft in Connection With Covered Accounts Held by the Financial Institution or Creditor
25. The financial institution or creditor is notified by a customer, a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
Pt. 249

# PART 249—FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Sec.
249.0-1
Availability of forms.

# Subpart A—Forms for Registration or Exemption of, and Notification of Action Taken by, National Securities Exchanges
249.1
Form 1, for application for, and amendments to applications for, registration as a national securities exchange or exemption from registration pursuant to Section 5 of the Exchange Act.
249.10
Form 1-N for notice registration as a national securities exchange.
249.11
Form R31 for reporting covered sales and covered round turn transactions under section 31 of the Act.
249.25
Form 25, for notification of removal from listing and/or registration.
249.26
Form 26, for notification of the admission to trading of a substituted or additional class of security under Rule 12a-5 (§ 240.12a-5 of this chapter).

# Subpart B—Forms for Reports To Be Filed by Officers, Directors, and Security Holders
249.103
Form 3, initial statement of beneficial ownership of securities.
249.104
Form 4, statement of changes in beneficial ownership of securities.
249.105
Form 5, annual statement of beneficial ownership of securities.

# Subpart C—Forms for Applications for Registration of Securities on National Securities Exchanges and Similar Matters
249.208
[Reserved]
249.208a
Form 8-A, for registration of certain classes of securities pursuant to section 12(b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.208b-249.208c
[Reserved]
249.210
Form 10, general form for registration of securities pursuant to section 12(b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.210b
[Reserved]
249.218
Form 18, for foreign governments and political subdivisions thereof.
249.220f
Form 20-F, registration of securities of foreign private issuers pursuant to section 12(b) or (g), annual and transition reports pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d), and shell company reports required under Rule 13a-19 or 15d-19 (§ 240.13a-19 or § 240.15d-19 of this chapter).
249.240f
Form 40-F, for registration of securities of certain Canadian issuers pursuant to section 12(b) or (g) and for reports pursuant to section 15(d) and Rule 15d-4 (§ 240.15d-4 of this chapter).
249.250
Form F-X, for appointment of agent for service of process by issuers registering securities on Form F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80 (§ 239.38, 239.39, 239.40 or 239.41 of this chapter), or registering securities or filing periodic reports on Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter), or by any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F or 14D-9F (§ 240.13e-102, 240.14d-102 or 240.14d-103 of this chapter), or by any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7 (§ 249.37 of this chapter), F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80.

# Forms for Annual and Other Reports of Issuers and Other Persons Required Under Sections 13, 14A, and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
249.306
Form 6-K report of foreign issuer pursuant to Rules 13a-16 (§ 240.13a-16 of this chapter) and 15d-16 (§ 240.15d-16 of this chapter) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.308
Form 8-K, for current reports.
249.308a
Form 10-Q, for quarterly and transition reports under sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.310
Form 10-K, for annual and transition reports pursuant to sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.310b-249.310c
[Reserved]
249.311
Form 11-K, for annual reports of employee stock purchase, savings and similar plans pursuant to section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.312
Form 10-D, periodic distribution reports by asset-backed issuers.
249.318
Form 18-K, annual report for foreign governments and political subdivisions thereof.
249.322
Form 12b-25—Notification of late filing.
249.323
Form 15, certification of termination of registration of a class of security under section 12(g) or notice of suspension of duty to file reports pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d) of the Act.
249.324
Form 15F, certification by a foreign private issuer regarding the termination of registration of a class of securities under section 12(g) or the duty to file reports under section 13(a) or section 15(d).
249.325
Form 13F, report of institutional investment manager pursuant to section 13(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.326
Form N-PX, annual report of proxy voting record.
249.327
Form 13H, Information required on large traders pursuant to Section 13(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rules thereunder.
249.328T
Form 17-H, Risk assessment report for brokers and dealers pursuant to section 17(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rules thereunder.
249.330
Form N-CEN, annual report of registered investment companies.
249.331
Form N-CSR, certified shareholder report.
249.332
Form SHO, report of institutional investment managers pursuant to section 13(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.333
[Reserved]
249.444
Form SE, form for submission of paper format exhibits by electronic filers.
249.445
[Reserved]
249.446
Form ID, application for EDGAR access.
249.447
Form TH—Notification of reliance on temporary hardship exemption.

# Subpart E—Forms for Statements Made in Connection With Exempt Tender Offers
249.480
Form CB, tender offer statement in connection with a tender offer for a foreign private issuer.

# Subpart F—Forms for Registration of Brokers and Dealers Transacting Business on Over-the-Counter Markets
249.501
Form BD, for application for registration as a broker and dealer or to amend or supplement such an application.
249.501a
Form BDW, notice of withdrawal from registration as broker-dealer pursuant to § 240.15b6-1, § 240.15Bc3-1, or § 240.15Cc1-1 of this chapter.
249.501b
Form BD-N for notice registration as a broker-dealer.
249.507
Form 7-M, consent to service of process by an individual nonresident broker-dealer.
249.508
Form 8-M, consent to service of process by a corporation which is a nonresident broker-dealer.
249.509
Form 9-M, consent to service of process by a partnership nonresident broker-dealer.
249.510
Form 10-M, consent to service of process by a nonresident general partner of a broker-dealer firm.

# Subpart G—Forms for Reports To Be Made by Certain Exchange Members, Brokers, Dealers, Security-Based Swap Dealers, and Major Security-Based Swap Participants
249.617
Form X-17A-5, information required of certain brokers, dealers, security-based swap dealers, and major security-based swap participants pursuant to sections 15F and 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and §§ 240.17a-5, 240.17a-10, 240.17a-11, 240.17a-12, and 240.18a-79 of this chapter, as applicable.
249.618
Form BD-Y2K, information required of broker-dealers pursuant to section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 240.17a-5 of this chapter.
249.619
Form TA-Y2K, information required of transfer agents pursuant to section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 240.17Ad-18 of this chapter.
249.620-249.634
[Reserved]
249.635
Form X-17A-19, report by national securities exchanges and registered national securities associations of changes in the membership status of any of their members.
249.636
[Reserved]
249.637
Form ATS, information required of alternative trading systems pursuant to § 242.301(b)(2) of this chapter.
249.638
Form ATS-R, information required of alternative trading systems pursuant to § 242.301(b)(8) of this chapter.
249.639
Form custody.
249.640
Form ATS-N, information required of NMS Stock ATSs pursuant to § 242.304(a) of this chapter.
249.641
Form CRS, Relationship Summary for Brokers and Dealers Providing Services to Retail Investors, pursuant to § 240.17a-14 of this chapter.

# Subpart H—Forms for Reports as to Stabilization
249.709
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Forms for Self-Regulatory Organization Rule Changes and Forms for Registration of and Reporting by National Securities Associations and Affiliated Securities Associations
249.801
Form 15A, for application for registration as a national securities association or affiliated securities association.
249.802-249.803
[Reserved]
249.819
Form 19b-4, for electronic filings with respect to proposed rule changes, advance notices and security-based swap submissions by all self-regulatory organizations.
249.820
Form 19b-4(e) for the listing and trading of new derivative securities products by self-regulatory organizations that are not deemed proposed rule changes pursuant to Rule 19b-4(e)(§ 240.19b-4(e)).
249.821
Form PILOT, information required of self-regulatory organizations operating pilot trading systems pursuant to § 240.19b-5 of this chapter.
249.822
Form 19b-7, for electronic filing with respect to proposed rule changes by self-regulatory organizations under Section 19(b)(7)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Forms for Registration of, and Reporting by Securities Information Processors
249.1001
Form SIP, for application for registration as a securities information processor or to amend such an application or registration.
249.1002
Form CC, for application for registration as a competing consolidator or to amend such an application or registration.

# Subpart L—Forms for Registration of Municipal Securities Dealers
249.1100
Form MSD, application for registration as a municipal securities dealer pursuant to rule 15Ba2-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or amendment to such application.
249.1110
Form MSDW, notice of withdrawal from registration as a municipal securities dealer pursuant to Rule 15Bc3-1 (17 CFR 240.15Bc3-1).

# Subpart M—Forms for Reporting and Inquiry With Respect to Missing, Lost, Stolen, or Counterfeit Securities
249.1200
Form X-17F-1A—Report for missing, lost, stolen or counterfeit securities.

# Subpart N—Forms for Registration of Municipal Advisors and for Providing Information Regarding Certain Natural Persons
249.1300
Form MA, for registration as a municipal advisor, and for amendments to registration.
249.1300T
Form MA-T, for temporary registration as a municipal advisor, and for amendments to, and withdrawals from, temporary registration.
249.1310
Form MA-I, for providing information regarding natural person municipal advisors, and for amendments to such information.
249.1320
Form MA-W, for withdrawal from registration as a municipal advisor.
249.1330
Form MA-NR, for appointment of agent for service of process by non-resident municipal advisor, non-resident general partner or managing agent of a municipal advisor, and non-resident natural person associated with a municipal advisor.

# Subpart O—Forms for Asset-Backed Securities
249.1400
Form ABS-15G, Asset-backed securitizer report pursuant to Section 15G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249.1401
Form ABS-EE, for submission of the asset-data file exhibits and related documents.

# Subpart P—Forms for Registration of Security-Based Swap Data Repositories
249.1500
Form SDR, for application for registration as a security-based swap data repository, amendments thereto, or withdrawal from registration.

# Subpart Q—Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants
249.1600
Form SBSE, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration.
249.1600a
Form SBSE-A, for application for registration as a security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration by firms registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant that are not also registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer.
249.1600b
Form SBSE-BD, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration by firms registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer.
249.1600c
Form SBSE-C, for certification by security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
249.1601
Form SBSE-W, for withdrawal from registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration.

# Subpart R—Forms for Registration of, and Filings by, Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities
249.1701
Form SBSEF, for application for registration as a security-based swap execution facility or to amend such application or registration.
249.1702
Submission cover sheet, for rule and product submissions.
Subpart S [Reserved]

# Subpart T—Form SCI, for filing notices and reports as required by Regulation SCI.
249.1900
Form SCI, for filing notices and reports as required by Regulation SCI.

# Subpart U—Forms for Registration of Funding Portals
249.2000
Form Funding Portal.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
and 7201
et seq.;
12 U.S.C. 5461
et seq.;
18 U.S.C. 1350; Sec. 953(b) Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1904; Sec. 102(a)(3) Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 309 (2012), Sec. 107 Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 313 (2012), Sec. 72001 Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312 (2015), and secs. 2 and 3 Pub. L. 116-222, 134 Stat. 1063 (2020), unless otherwise noted.
Section 249.220f is also issued under secs. 3(a), 202, 208, 302, 306(a), 401(a), 401(b), 406 and 407, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745, and secs. 2 and 3, Pub. L. 116-222, 134 Stat. 1063.
Section 249.240f is also issued under secs. 3(a), 202, 208, 302, 306(a), 401(a), 406 and 407, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745.
Section 249.308 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-29 and 80a-37.
Section 249.308a is also issued under secs. 3(a) and 302, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745.
Section 249.308b is also issued under secs. 3(a) and 302, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745.
Section 249.310 is also issued under secs. 3(a), 202, 208, 302, 406 and 407, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745.
Section 249.326(T) also issued under section 13(f)(1) (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)(1)).
Section 249.330 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-29(a).
Section 249.331 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78j-1, 7202, 7233, 7241, 7264, 7265; and 18 U.S.C. 1350.
Section 249.617 is also issued under Pub. L. 111-203, § 939, 939A, 124. Stat. 1376 (2010) (15 U.S.C. 78c, 15 U.S.C. 78
o
-7 note).
Section 249.640 is also issued under Public Law 111-203, sec. 913, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).
Section 249.819 is also issued under 12 U.S.C. 5465(e).
Section 249.1400 is also issued under sec. 943, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 249 appear at 57 FR 36501, Aug. 13, 1992, and 57 FR 47409, Oct. 16, 1992.
§ 249.0-1
Availability of forms.
(a) This part identifies and describes the forms prescribed for use under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(b) Any person may obtain a copy of any form prescribed for use in this part by written request to the Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Any person may inspect the forms at this address and at the Commission's regional offices. (
See
§ 200.11 of this chapter for the addresses of SEC regional offices).
[46 FR 17757, Mar. 20, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 26820, June 22, 1982; 59 FR 5946, Feb. 9, 1994; 73 FR 979, Jan. 4, 2008]

# Subpart A—Forms for Registration or Exemption of, and Notification of Action Taken by, National Securities Exchanges
§ 249.1
Form 1, for application for, and amendments to applications for, registration as a national securities exchange or exemption from registration pursuant to Section 5 of the Exchange Act.
The form shall be used for application for, and amendments to applications for, registration as a national securities exchange or exemption from registration pursuant to Section 5 of the Act, (15 U.S.C. 78e).
[63 FR 70925, Dec. 22, 1998]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.10
Form 1-N for notice registration as a national securities exchange.
This form shall be used for notice, and amendments to the notice, to permit an exchange to register as a national securities exchange solely for the purposes of trading security futures products pursuant to Section 6(g) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78f(g)).
[66 FR 43743, Aug. 20, 2001]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 1-10, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.11
Form R31 for reporting covered sales and covered round turn transactions under section 31 of the Act.
This form shall be used by each national securities exchange to report to the Commission within ten business days after the end of every month the aggregate dollar amount of sales of securities that occurred on the exchange, had a charge date in the month of the report, and are subject to fees pursuant to section 31(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78ee) and § 240.31 of this chapter; and the total number of round turn transactions in security futures that occurred on the exchange, had a charge date in the month of the report, and are subject to assessments pursuant to section 31(d) of the Act and § 240.31 of this chapter. This form also shall be used by a national securities association to report to the Commission within ten business days after the end of every month the aggregate dollar amount of sales of securities that occurred by or through a member of the association otherwise than on a national securities exchange, had a charge date in the month of the report, and are subject to fees pursuant to section 31(c) of the Act and § 240.31 of this chapter; and the total number of round turn transactions in security futures that occurred by or through any member of the association otherwise than on a national securities exchange, had a charge date in the month of the report, and are subject to assessments pursuant to section 31(d) of the Act and § 240.31 of this chapter.
[69 FR 41080, July 7, 2004]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form R31, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.25
Form 25, for notification of removal from listing and/or registration.
This form shall be used by registered national securities exchanges and issuers for notification of removal of a class of securities from listing on a national securities exchange and/or withdrawal of registration under section 12(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(b)).
[70 FR 42469, July 22, 2005]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 25, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.26
Form 26, for notification of the admission to trading of a substituted or additional class of security under Rule 12a-5 (§ 240.12a-5 of this chapter).
This form shall be used by a registered national securities exchange for notification of the admission to trading of a substituted or additional class of security under Rule 12a-5.
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 26, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart B—Forms for Reports To Be Filed by Officers, Directors, and Security Holders
§ 249.103
Form 3, initial statement of beneficial ownership of securities.
This Form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 16a-3 (§ 240.16a-3 of this chapter) for initial statements of beneficial ownership of securities. The Commission is authorized to solicit the information required by this Form pursuant
to sections 16(a) and 23(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p(a) and 78w(a)); and sections 30(h) and 38 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h) and 80a-37), and the rules and regulations thereunder. Disclosure of information specified on this Form is mandatory. The information will be used for the primary purpose of disclosing the holdings of directors, officers and beneficial owners of registered companies. Information disclosed will be a matter of public record and available for inspection by members of the public. The Commission can use the information in investigations or litigation involving the federal securities laws or other civil, criminal, or regulatory statutes or provisions, as well as for referral to other governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Failure to disclose required information may result in civil or criminal action against persons involved for violations of the federal securities laws and rules.
[56 FR 7274, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 72 FR 45112, Aug. 10, 2007]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.104
Form 4, statement of changes in beneficial ownership of securities.
This Form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 16a-3 (§ 240.16a-3 of this chapter) for statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities. The Commission is authorized to solicit the information required by this Form pursuant to sections 16(a) and 23(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p(a) and 78w(a)); and sections 30(h) and 38 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h) and 80a-37), and the rules and regulations thereunder. Disclosure of information specified on this Form is mandatory. The information will be used for the primary purpose of disclosing the holdings of directors, officers and beneficial owners of registered companies. Information disclosed will be a matter of public record and available for inspection by members of the public. The Commission can use the information in investigations or litigation involving the federal securities laws or other civil, criminal, or regulatory statutes or provisions, as well as for referral to other governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Failure to disclose required information may result in civil or criminal action against persons involved for violations of the federal securities laws and rules.
[56 FR 7274, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 72 FR 45112, Aug. 10, 2007]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.105
Form 5, annual statement of beneficial ownership of securities.
This Form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 16a-3 (§ 240.16a-3 of this chapter) for annual statements of beneficial ownership of securities. The Commission is authorized to solicit the information required by this Form pursuant to sections 16(a) and 23(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78p(a) and 78w(a)); and sections 30(h) and 38 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h) and 80a-37), and the rules and regulations thereunder. Disclosure of information specified on this Form is mandatory. The information will be used for the primary purpose of disclosing the holdings of directors, officers and beneficial owners of registered companies. Information disclosed will be a matter of public record and available for inspection by members of the public. The Commission can use the information in investigations or litigation involving the federal securities laws or other civil, criminal, or regulatory statutes or provisions, as well as for referral to other governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Failure to disclose required information may result in civil or criminal action against persons involved for violations of the federal securities laws and rules.
[56 FR 7274, Feb. 21, 1991, as amended at 72 FR 45112, Aug. 10, 2007]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart C—Forms for Applications for Registration of Securities on National Securities Exchanges and Similar Matters
§ 249.208
[Reserved]
§ 249.208a
Form 8-A, for registration of certain classes of securities pursuant to section 12 (b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, this form may be used for registration pursuant to section 12(b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of any class of securities of any issuer which:
(1) Is required to file reports pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d) of that Act;
(2) Is concurrently qualifying a Tier 2 offering statement relating to that class of securities using the Form S-1 or Form S-11 disclosure models; or
(3) Pursuant to an order exempting the exchange on which the issuer has securities listed from registration as a national securities exchange.
(b) If the registrant would be required to file an annual report pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act for its last fiscal year, except for the fact that the registration statement on this form will become effective before such report is required to be filed, an annual report for such fiscal year shall nevertheless be filed within the period specified in the appropriate annual report form.
(c) If this form is used for the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(b)), it shall become effective;
(1) If a class of securities is not concurrently being registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
)(“Securities Act”), upon the later of receipt by the Commission of certification from the national securities exchange listed on the form or the filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission; or
(2) If a class of securities is concurrently being registered under the Securities Act, upon the later of the Filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission, receipt by the Commission of certification from the national securities exchange listed on the form, or the effectiveness of the Securities Act registration statement relating to the class of securities.
(d) If this form is used for the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(g) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(g)), it shall become effective:
(1) If a class of securities is not concurrently being registered under the Securities Act, upon the filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission; or
(2) If a class of securities is concurrently being registered under the Securities Act, upon the later of the filing of the Form 8-A with the Commission or the effectiveness of the Securities registration statement relating to the class of securities.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, if the form is used for registration of a class of securities being offered under Regulation A, it shall become effective:
(1) For the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(b), upon the latest of the filing of the form with the Commission, the qualification of the Regulation A offering statement or the receipt by the Commission of certification from the national securities exchange listed on the form; or
(2) For the registration of a class of securities under Section 12(g), upon the later of the filing of the form and qualification of that Regulation A offering statement.
[43 FR 21663, May 19, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 8-A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 249.208b-249.208c
[Reserved]

# Editorial Note:
Amended Form 8-A replaces former Form 8-C; see § 249.208a of this chapter.
§ 249.210
Form 10, general form for registration of securities pursuant to section 12(b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This form shall be used for registration pursuant to section 12 (b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of
classes of securities of issuers for which no other form is prescribed.
(Secs. 7, 10, 19(a), 48 Stat. 78, 81, 85; secs. 205, 209, 48 Stat. 906, 908; sec. 8, 68 Stat. 685; 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77j, 77s(a); secs. 12, 13, 14, 15(d), 23, 48 Stat. 892, 894, 895, 901; sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; secs. 1, 3, 8, 49 Stat. 1375, 1377, 1379; sec. 202, 68 Stat. 686; secs. 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 78 Stat. 565-568, 569, 570-574, 88a; secs. 1, 2, 3, 82 Stat. 454, 455; secs.1, 2, 3-5, 28(c), 84 Stat. 1435, 1479; sec. 105(b), 88 Stat. 1503; secs. 8, 9, 10, 18, 89 Stat. 117, 118, 119, 155 (15 U.S.C. 78
l,
78m, 78n, 78o(d), 78w))
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 10 see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.210b
[Reserved]
§ 249.218
Form 18, for foreign governments and political subdivisions thereof.
This form shall be used for the registration of securities of any foreign government or political subdivision thereof.
[47 FR 54781, Dec. 6, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 18, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.220f
Form 20-F, registration of securities of foreign private issuers pursuant to section 12(b) or (g), annual and transition reports pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d), and shell company reports required under Rule 13a-19 or 15d-19 (§ 240.13a-19 or § 240.15d-19 of this chapter).
(a) Any foreign private issuer, other than an asset-backed issuer (as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter), may use this form as a registration statement under section 12 (15 U.S.C. 78l) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), as an annual or transition report filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)), or as a shell company report required under Rule 13a-19 or Rule 15d-19 under the Exchange Act (§ 240.13a-19 or 240.15d-19 of this chapter).
(b) An annual report on this form shall be filed within six months after the end of the fiscal year covered by such report.
(c) A transition report on this form shall be filed in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 240.13a-10 or § 240.15d-10 applicable when the issuer changes its fiscal year end.
[47 FR 54781, Dec. 6, 1982, as amended at 70 FR 1625, Jan. 7, 2005; 70 FR 42248, July 21, 2005]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 20-F, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.240f
Form 40-F, for registration of securities of certain Canadian issuers pursuant to section 12(b) or (g) and for reports pursuant to section 15(d) and Rule 15d-4 (§ 240.15d-4 of this chapter).
(a) Form 40-F may be used to file reports with the Commission pursuant to section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and Rule 15d-4 (17 CFR 240.15d-4) thereunder by registrants that are subject to the reporting requirements of that section solely by reason of their having filed a registration statement on Form F-7, F-8, F-10 or F-80 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”).

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
No reporting obligation arises under section 15(d) of the Securities Act from the registration of securities on Form F-7, F-8 or F-80 if the issuer, at the time of filing such Form, is exempt from the requirements of section 12(g) of the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 12g3-2(b). See Rule 12h-4 under the Exchange Act.
(b) Form 40-F may be used to register securities with the Commission pursuant to section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act, to file reports with the Commission pursuant to section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-3 (17 CFR 240.13a-3) thereunder, and to file reports with the Commission pursuant to section 15(d) of the Exchange Act if:
(1) The registrant is incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory;
(2) The registrant is a foreign private issuer or a crown corporation;
(3) The registrant has been subject to the periodic reporting requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada for a period of at least 12 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form and is currently in compliance with such obligations; and
(4) The aggregate market value of the public float of the registrant's outstanding equity shares is $75 million or more.

# Instructions
1. For purposes of this Form, “foreign private issuer” shall be construed in accordance with Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
2. For purposes of this Form, the term “crown corporation” shall mean a corporation all of whose common shares or comparable equity is owned directly or indirectly by the Government of Canada or a Province or Territory of Canada.
3. For purposes of this Form, the “public float” of specified securities shall mean only such securities held by persons other than affiliates of the issuer.
4. For the purposes of this Form, an “affiliate” of a person is anyone who beneficially owns directly or indirectly, or exercises control or direction over, more than 10 percent of the outstanding equity shares of such person. The determination of a person's affiliates shall be made as of the end of such person's most recently completed fiscal year.
5. For purposes of this Form, “equity shares” shall mean common shares, non-voting equity shares and subordinate or restricted voting equity shares, but shall not include preferred shares.
6. For purposes of this Form, the market value of outstanding equity shares (whether or not held by affiliates) shall be computed by use of the price at which the shares were last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of such shares, in the principal market for such shares as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing. If there is no market for any of such securities, the book value of such securities computed as of the latest practicable date prior to the filing of this Form shall be used for purposes of calculating the market value, unless the issuer of such securities is in bankruptcy or receivership or has an accumulated capital deficit, in which case one-third of the principal amount, par value or stated value of such securities shall be used.
(c) If the registrant is a successor registrant subsisting after a business combination, it shall be deemed to meet the 12-month reporting requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section if:
(1) The time the successor registrant has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada, when added separately to the time each predecessor had been subject to such requirements at the time of the business combination, in each case equals at least 12 calendar months,
provided, however,
that any predecessor need not be considered for purposes of the reporting history calculation if the reporting histories of predecessors whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of such participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years immediately prior to the business combination, when combined with the reporting history of the successor registrant in each case satisfy such 12-month reporting requirement; and
(2) The successor registrant has been subject to such continuous disclosure requirements since the business combination, and is currently in compliance with its obligations thereunder.
(d) This Form shall not be used if the registrant is an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(e) Registrants registering securities on this Form, and registrants filing annual reports on this Form who have not previously filed a Form F-X (§ 249.250 of this chapter) in connection with the class of securities in relation to which the obligation to file this report arises, shall file a Form F-X with the Commission together with this Form.
[56 FR 30075, July 1, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 40-F, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.250
Form F-X, for appointment of agent for service of process by issuers registering securities on Form F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80 (§ 239.38, 239.39, 239.40 or 239.41 of this chapter), or registering securities or filing periodic reports on Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter), or by any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F or 14D-9F (§ 240.13e-102, 240.14d-102 or 240.14d-103 of this chapter), or by any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7 (§ 249.37 of this chapter), F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80.
Form F-X shall be filed with the Commission:
(a) By any issuer registering securities on Form F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80 under the Securities Act of 1933;
(b) By any issuer registering securities on Form 40-F under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(c) By any issuer filing a periodic report on Form 40-F, if it has not previously filed a Form F-X in connection with the class of securities in relation to which the obligation to file a report on Form 40-F arises;
(d) By any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F or 14D-9F; and
(e) By any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7, F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80.
[56 FR 30076, July 1, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-X, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart D—Forms for Annual and Other Reports of Issuers and Other Persons Required Under Sections 13, 14A, and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
§ 249.306
Form 6-K, report of foreign issuer pursuant to Rules 13a-16 (§ 240.13a-16 of this chapter) and 15d-16 (§ 240.15d-16 of this chapter) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This form shall be used by foreign issuers which are required to furnish reports pursuant to Rule 13a-16 (§ 240.13a-16 of this chapter) or 15d-16 (§ 240.15d-16 of this chapter) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 6-K, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.308
Form 8-K, for current reports.
This form shall be used for the current reports required by Rule 13a-11 or Rule 15d-11 (§ 240.13a-11 or § 240.15d-11 of this chapter) and for reports of nonpublic information required to be disclosed by Regulation FD (§§ 243.100 and 243.101 of this chapter).
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 8-K, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.308a
Form 10-Q, for quarterly and transition reports under sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(a) Form 10-Q shall be used for quarterly reports under section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)), required to be filed pursuant to § 240.13a-13 or § 240.15d-13 of this chapter. A quarterly report on this form pursuant to § 240.13a-13 or § 240.15d-13 of this chapter shall be filed within the following period after the end of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year, but no quarterly report need be filed for the fourth quarter of any fiscal year:
(1) 40 days after the end of the fiscal quarter for large accelerated filers and accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter); and
(2) 45 days after the end of the fiscal quarter for all other registrants.
(b) Form 10-Q also shall be used for transition and quarterly reports filed pursuant to § 240.13a-10 or § 240.15d-10 of this chapter. Such transition or quarterly reports shall be filed in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 240.13a-10 or § 240.15d-10 of this chapter
applicable when the registrant changes its fiscal year end.
[67 FR 58506, Sept. 16, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 68236, Nov. 23, 2004; 70 FR 76642, Dec. 27, 2005]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 10-Q, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.310
Form 10-K, for annual and transition reports pursuant to sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(a) This form shall be used for annual reports pursuant to sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) for which no other form is prescribed. This form also shall be used for transition reports filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(b) Annual reports on this form shall be filed within the following period:
(1) 60 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report (75 days for fiscal years ending before December 15, 2006) for large accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter);
(2) 75 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report for accelerated filers (as defined in § 240.12b-2 of this chapter); and
(3) 90 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report for all other registrants.
(c) Transition reports on this form shall be filed in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 240.13a-10 or § 240.15d-10 of this chapter applicable when the registrant changes its fiscal year end.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, all schedules required by Article 12 of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.12-01-210.12-29 of this chapter) may, at the option of the registrant, be filed as an amendment to the report not later than 30 days after the applicable due date of the report.
[70 FR 76642, Dec. 27, 2005]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 10-K, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 249.310b-249.310c
[Reserved]
§ 249.311
Form 11-K, for annual reports of employee stock purchase, savings and similar plans pursuant to section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This form shall be used for annual reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to employee stock purchase, savings and similar plans, interests in which constitute securities which have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Such a report is required to be filed even though the issuer of the securities offered to employees pursuant to the plan also files annual reports pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. However, attention is directed to Rule 15d-21 (§ 240.15d-21 of this chapter) which provides that in certain cases the information required by this form may be furnished with respect to the plan as a part of the annual report of such issuer. Reports on this form shall be filed within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year of the plan, or, in the case of a plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, within 180 days after the plan's fiscal year end.
[43 FR 21663, May 19, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 11-K, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.312
Form 10-D, periodic distribution reports by asset-backed issuers.
This form shall be used by asset-backed issuers to file periodic distribution reports pursuant to § 240.13a-17 or § 240.15d-17 of this chapter. A distribution report on this form pursuant to § 240.13a-17 or § 240.15d-17 of this chapter shall be filed within 15 days after each required distribution date on the asset-backed securities, as specified in the governing documents for such securities.
[70 FR 1626, Jan. 7, 2005]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 10-D, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.318
Form 18-K, annual report for foreign governments and political subdivisions thereof.
This form shall be used for the annual reports of foreign governments or political subdivisions thereof.
[47 FR 54790, Dec. 6, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 18-K, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.322
Form 12b-25—Notification of late filing.
(a) This form shall be filed pursuant to § 240.12b-25 of this chapter by issuers who are unable to file timely all or any required portion of an annual or transition report on Form 10-K and Form 10-KSB, 20-F, or 11-K (§ 249.310, 249.310b, 249.220f or 249.311), a quarterly or transition report on Form 10-Q and Form 10-QSB (§§ 249.308a and 249.308b), or a distribution report on Form 10-D (§ 249.312) pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) or an annual report on Form N-CEN (§§ 249.330; 274.101) or a semi-annual or annual report on Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331; 274.128) pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act or section 30 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29). The filing shall consist of a signed original and three conformed copies, and shall be filed with the Commission at Washington, DC 20549, no later than one business day after the due date for the periodic report in question. Copies of this form may be obtained from “Publications,” Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 and at our Web site at
http://www.sec.gov.
(b) This form shall not be used by electronic filers unable to timely file a report solely due to electronic difficulties. Filers unable to submit a report within the time period prescribed due to electronic difficulties should comply with either Rule 201 or Rule 202 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201 or § 232.202 of this chapter), or apply for an adjustment in filing date pursuant to Rule 13(b) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.13(b) of this chapter).
(c)
Interactive data submissions.
This form shall not be used by electronic filers with respect to the submission or posting of an Interactive Data File (§ 232.11 of this chapter). Electronic filers unable to submit or post an Interactive Data File within the time period prescribed should comply with either Rule 201 or 202 of Regulation S-T (§§ 232.201 and 232.202 of this chapter).
[50 FR 1449, Jan. 11, 1985, as amended at 70 FR 1630, Jan. 7, 2005; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008; 74 FR 6821, Feb. 10, 2009; 81 FR 82020, June 1, 2018]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 12b-25, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.323
Form 15, certification of termination of registration of a class of security under section 12(g) or notice of suspension of duty to file reports pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d) of the Act.
(a) This form shall be filed by each issuer to certify that the number of holders of record of a class of security registered under section 12(g) of the Act is reduced to less than 300 persons, or that the number of holders of record of a class of security registered under section 12(g) of the Act is reduced to less than 500 persons and the total assets of the issuer have not exceeded $10 million on the last day of each of the issuer's most recent three fiscal years. Registration terminates 90 days after the filing of the certificate or within such shorter time as the Commission may direct.
(b) This form shall also be filed by each issuer required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act, as a notification that the duty to file such reports is suspended pursuant to section 15(d) of the Act because all securities of each class of such issuer registered under the Securities Act of 1933 are held of record by less than 300 persons at the beginning of its fiscal year,
or otherwise pursuant to the provisions of Rule 12h-3 (17 CFR 240.12h-3).
(Secs. 12(g)(4), 12(h), 13(a), 15(d), 23(a), 48 Stat. 892, 894, 895, 901; sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; secs. 3, 8, 49 Stat. 1377, 1379; secs. 3, 4, 6, 78 Stat. 565-568, 569, 570-574; sec. 18, 89 Stat. 155; sec. 204, 91 Stat. 1500; 15 U.S.C. 78
l
(g)(4), 78
l
(h), 78m(a), 78o(d), 78w(a))
[49 FR 12690, Mar. 30, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 25362, July 14, 1986; 61 FR 21356, May 9, 1996]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 15, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.324
Form 15F, certification by a foreign private issuer regarding the termination of registration of a class of securities under section 12(g) or the duty to file reports under section 13(a) or section 15(d).
This form shall be filed by a foreign private issuer to disclose and certify the information on the basis of which it meets the requirements specified in Rule 12h-6 (§ 240.12h-6 of this chapter) to terminate the registration of a class of securities under section 12(g) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(g)) or the duty to file reports under section 13(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a)) or section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78(o)(d)). In each instance, unless the Commission objects, termination occurs 90 days, or such shorter time as the Commission may direct, after the filing of Form 15F.
[72 FR 16958, Apr. 5, 2007]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 15F, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.325
Form 13F, report of institutional investment manager pursuant to section 13(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This form shall be used by institutional investment managers which are required to furnish reports pursuant to section 13(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) and Rule 13f-1 thereunder (§ 240.13f-1 of this chapter).
[43 FR 26705, June 22, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 13F, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.326
Form N-PX, annual report of proxy voting record.
This form shall be used by institutional investment managers to file an annual report pursuant to § 240.14Ad-1 of this chapter containing the manager's proxy voting record.
[87 FR 78808, Dec. 22, 2022]
§ 249.327
Form 13H, Information required on large traders pursuant to Section 13(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rules thereunder.
This form shall be used by persons that are large traders required to furnish identifying information to the Commission pursuant to Section 13(h)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78m(h)(1)] and § 240.13h-1(b) of this chapter.
[76 FR 47004, Aug. 3, 2011]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 13H, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.328T
Form 17-H, Risk assessment report for brokers and dealers pursuant to section 17(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rules thereunder.
This form shall be used by brokers and dealers in reporting information to the Commission concerning certain of their associated persons pursuant to section 17(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78q(h)] and Rules 17h-1T and 17h-2T thereunder [§§ 240.17h-1T and 240.17h-2T of this chapter].
[57 FR 32171, July 21, 1992]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 17-H, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.330
Form N-CEN, annual report of registered investment companies.
This form shall be used by registered unit investment trusts and small business investment companies for annual reports to be filed pursuant to § 270.30a-
1 of this chapter in satisfaction of the requirement of section 30(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(a)) that every registered investment company must file annually with the Commission such information, documents, and reports as investment companies having securities registered on a national securities exchange are required to file annually pursuant to section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(a)) and the rules and regulations thereunder.

# Note:
The text of Form N-CEN will not appear in the
Code of Federal Regulations.
[81 FR 82020, Nov. 18, 2016]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-CEN, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.331
Form N-CSR, certified shareholder report.
This form shall be used by registered management investment companies to file reports pursuant to § 270.30b2-1(a) of this chapter not later than 10 days after the transmission to stockholders of any report that is required to be transmitted to stockholders under § 270.30e-1 of this chapter.
[68 FR 5365, Feb. 3, 2003]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-CSR, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.332
Form SHO, report of institutional investment managers pursuant to section 13(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This form shall be used by institutional investment managers that are required to furnish reports pursuant to section 13(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)(2)) and 17 CFR 240.13f-2 (Rule 13f-2).
[88 FR 75185, Nov. 1, 2023]
§ 249.333
[Reserved]
§ 249.444
Form SE, form for submission of paper format exhibits by electronic filers.
This form shall be used by an electronic filer for the submission of any paper format document relating to an otherwise electronic filing, as provided in Rule 311 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.311 of this chapter).
[58 FR 14686, Mar. 18, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SE, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.445
[Reserved]
§ 249.446
Form ID, application for EDGAR access.
Form ID must be filed by electronic filers, or by their account administrators, to request EDGAR access and to authorize account administrators to manage the electronic filer's EDGAR account.
[89 FR 106223, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 249.447
Form TH—Notification of reliance on temporary hardship exemption.
Form TH shall be filed by any electronic filer who submits to the Commission, pursuant to a temporary hardship exemption, a document in paper format that otherwise would be required to be submitted electronically, as prescribed by Rule 201(a) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201(a) of this chapter).
[58 FR 14686, Mar. 18, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form TH, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart E—Forms for Statements Made in Connection With Exempt Tender Offers

# Source:
64 FR 61406, Nov. 10, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 249.480
Form CB, tender offer statement in connection with a tender offer for a foreign private issuer.
This form is used to report an issuer tender offer conducted in compliance with § 240.13e-4(h)(8) of this chapter and a third-party tender offer conducted in compliance with § 240.14d-1(c) of this chapter. This report also is used by a
subject company pursuant to § 240.14e-2(d) of this chapter.
[64 FR 61406, Nov. 10, 1999]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form CB, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart F—Forms for Registration of Brokers and Dealers Transacting Business on Over-the-Counter Markets
§ 249.501
Form BD, for application for registration as a broker and dealer or to amend or supplement such an application.
(a) This form shall be used for application for registration as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or to amend such application.
(b) Interim Form BD shall be used for application for registration as broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or to amend such application, only by order of the Commission. In the event broker-dealers are required to comply with their filing obligations on Interim Form BD, the form will be made available at the Commission's Publication Office at (202) 942-4040.
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form BD, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.501a
Form BDW, notice of withdrawal from registration as broker-dealer pursuant to § 240.15b6-1, § 240.15Bc3-1, or § 240.15Cc1-1 of this chapter.
(a) This form shall be used for filing a notice of withdrawal as broker-dealer pursuant to Rule 15b6-1 (§ 240.15b6-1 of this chapter), Rule 15Bc3-1 § 240.15B3-1 of this chapter), or Rule 15Cc1-1 (§ 240.15Cc1-1 of this chapter). Under sections 15(b), 15B, 15C, 17(a), and 23(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (17 CFR part 240), and the rules and regulations thereunder, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this form from registrants desiring to withdraw their registration as a broker-dealer. Disclosure of the information specified in this form is mandatory prior to processing of applications for withdrawal, except for social security account numbers, disclosure of which is voluntary. The information will be used for the primary purpose of determining whether it is in the public interest to permit a broker-dealer to withdraw his registration. This notice will be made a matter of public record. Therefore, any information, given will be available for inspection by any member of the public. Because of the public nature of the information the Commission can utilize it for a variety of purposes, including referral to other governmental authorities or securities self-regulatory organizations for investigatory purposes or in connection with litigation involving the Federal securities laws and other civil, criminal or regulatory statutes or provisions. Social security account numbers, if furnished, will assist the Commission in identifying registrants and, therefore, in promptly processing applications for withdrawal. Failure to disclose the information requested by Form BDW, except for social security account numbers, may result in the registrant not being permitted to withdraw his registration.
(b) Interim Form BDW shall be used for application for registration as broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or to amend such application, only by order of the Commission. In the event broker-dealers are required to comply with their filing obligations on Interim Form BD, the form will be made available at the Commission's Publication Office at (202) 942-4040.
[52 FR 16844, May 6, 1987]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form BDW, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.501b
Form BD-N for notice registration as a broker-dealer.
This form shall be used for notice of registration as a broker-dealer pursuant to Section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)) for the limited
purpose of trading security futures products, or to amend such notice.
[66 FR 45147, Aug. 27, 2001]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form BD-N, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.507
Form 7-M, consent to service of process by an individual nonresident broker-dealer.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 15b1-5 (§ 240.15b1-5 of this chapter) by each individual nonresident broker-dealer registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 7-M, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.508
Form 8-M, consent to service of process by a corporation which is a nonresident broker-dealer.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 15b1-5 (§ 240.15b1-5 of this chapter) by each corporate nonresident broker-dealer registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 8-M, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.509
Form 9-M, consent to service of process by a partnership nonresident broker-dealer.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 15b1-5 (§ 240.15b1-5 of this chapter) by each partnership nonresident broker-dealer registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 9-M, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.510
Form 10-M, consent to service of process by a nonresident general partner of a broker-dealer firm.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 15b1-5 (§ 240.15b1-5 of this chapter) by each nonresident general partner of a broker-dealer firm registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15 of the Act.
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 10-M, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart G—Forms for Reports To Be Made by Certain Exchange Members, Brokers, Dealers, Security-Based Swap Dealers, and Major Security-Based Swap Participants
§ 249.617
Form X-17A-5, information required of certain brokers, dealers, security-based swap dealers, and major security-based swap participants pursuant to sections 15F and 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and §§ 240.17a-5, 240.17a-10, 240.17a-11, 240.17a-12, and 240.18a-79 of this chapter, as applicable.
Appropriate parts of Form X-17A-5, as applicable, shall be used by brokers, dealers, security-based swap dealers, and major security-based swap participants required to file reports under §§ 240.17a-5, 240.17a-10, 240.17a-11, 240.17a-12, and 240.18a-7 of this chapter, as applicable.
[84 FR 68669, Dec. 16, 2019]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form X-17A-5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.618
Form BD-Y2K, information required of broker-dealers pursuant to section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 240.17a-5 of this chapter.
This form shall be used by every broker-dealer required to file reports under § 240.17a-5(e) of this chapter.
[63 FR 37674, July 13, 1998]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form BD-Y2K, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.619
Form TA-Y2K, information required of transfer agents pursuant to section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 240.17Ad-18 of this chapter.
This form shall be used by every registered transfer agent required to file reports under § 240.17Ad-18 of this chapter.
[63 FR 37694, July 13, 1998]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form TA-Y2K, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 249.620-249.634
[Reserved]
§ 249.635
Form X-17A-19, report by national securities exchanges and registered national securities associations of changes in the membership status of any of their members.
This form shall be completed and filed by each national securities exchange or registered national securities association as required by § 240.17a-19 of this chapter within 5 business days of the occurrence of the initiation of the membership of any person or the suspension or termination of the membership of any of its members.
[45 FR 39841, June 12, 1980]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form X-17A-19, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.636
[Reserved]
§ 249.637
Form ATS, information required of alternative trading systems pursuant to § 242.301(b)(2) of this chapter.
This form shall be used by every alternative trading system to file required notices, reports and amendments under § 242.301(b)(2) of this chapter.
[63 FR 70933, Dec. 22, 1998]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ATS, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.638
Form ATS-R, information required of alternative trading systems pursuant to § 242.301(b)(8) of this chapter.
This form shall be used by every alternative trading system to file required reports under § 242.301(b)(8) of this chapter.
[63 FR 70943, Dec. 22, 1998]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ATS-R, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.639
Form custody.
This form shall be used for reports of information required by § 240.17a-5 of this chapter.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form Custody, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
[78 FR 51994, Aug. 21, 2013]
§ 249.640
Form ATS-N, information required of NMS Stock ATSs pursuant to § 242.304(a) of this chapter.
This form shall be used by every NMS Stock ATS to file requiredreports under § 242.304(a) of this chapter.
[83 FR 38913, Aug. 7, 2018]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ATS-N, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.641
Form CRS, Relationship Summary for Brokers and Dealers Providing Services to Retail Investors, pursuant to § 240.17a-14 of this chapter.
This form shall be prepared and filed by brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 15 of the Act that offer services to a retail investor pursuant to § 240.17a-14 of this chapter.
[84 FR 33630, July 12, 2019]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form CRS, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart H—Forms For Reports as to Stabilization
§ 249.709
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Forms for Self-Regulatory Organization Rule Changes and Forms for Registration of and Reporting by National Securities Associations and Affiliated Securities Associations
§ 249.801
Form 15A, for application for registration as a national securities association or affiliated securities association.
This form shall be filed as an application for registration as a national securities association or as an affiliated securities association pursuant to § 240.15aa-1 of this chapter (Rule 15aa-1).
[33 FR 18995, Dec. 20, 1968]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form X-15AA-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 249.802-249.803
[Reserved]
§ 249.819
Form 19b-4, for electronic filings with respect to proposed rule changes, advance notices and security-based swap submissions by all self-regulatory organizations.
This form shall be used by all self-regulatory organizations, as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)), to file electronically proposed rule changes with the Commission pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)) and § 240.19b-4 of this chapter, advance notices with the Commission pursuant to Section 806(e) of the Payment, Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act (12 U.S.C. 5465(e)) and § 240.19b-4 of this chapter and security-based swap submissions with the Commission pursuant to Section 3C(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(b)(2)) and § 240.19b-4 of this chapter.
[77 FR 41650, July 13, 2012]

# Editorial Note:
Copies of Form 19b-4 have been filed with the Office of the Federal Register and will be forwarded to the self-regulatory organizations. Copies may be requested from the Commission.
§ 249.820
Form 19b-4(e) for the listing and trading of new derivative securities products by self-regulatory organizations that are not deemed proposed rule changes pursuant to Rule 19b-4(e)(§ 240.19b-4(e)).
This form shall be used by all self-regulatory organizations, as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Act, to notify the Commission of a self-regulatory organization's listing and trading of a new derivative securities product that is not deemed a proposed rule change, pursuant to Rule 19b-4(e) under the Act (17 CFR 240.19b-4(e)).
[63 FR 70967, Dec. 22, 1998]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 19b-4(e), see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.821
Form PILOT, information required of self-regulatory organizations operating pilot trading systems pursuant to § 240.19b-5 of this chapter.
This form shall be used by all self-regulatory organizations, as defined in section 3(a)(26) of the Act, (15 U.S.C 78c(a)(26)), to file required information and reports with regard to pilot trading systems pursuant to § 240.19b-5 of this chapter.
[63 FR 70946, Dec. 22, 1998]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form PILOT, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.822
Form 19b-7, for electronic filing with respect to proposed rule changes by self-regulatory organizations under Section 19(b)(7)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This form shall be used by self-regulatory organizations, as defined in section 3(a)(25) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(25)), to file electronically proposed rule changes with the Commission pursuant to section 19(b)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(7)) and § 240.19b-7 of this chapter.
[73 FR 16190, Mar. 27, 2008]
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Form for Registration of, and Reporting by Securities Information Processors
§ 249.1001
Form SIP, for application for registration as a securities information processor or to amend such an application or registration.
This form shall be used for application for registration as a securities information processor, pursuant to section 11A(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78k-1(b)) and § 242.609 of this chapter, or to amend such an application or registration.
[70 FR 37632, June 29, 2005]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SIP, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1002
Form CC, for application for registration as a competing consolidator or to amend such an application or registration.
This form shall be used for application for registration as a competing consolidator, pursuant to section 11A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78k-1) and § 242.614 of this chapter, or to amend such an application or registration.
[86 FR 18814, Apr. 9, 2021]

# Subpart L—Forms for Registration of Municipal Securities Dealers
§ 249.1100
Form MSD, application for registration as a municipal securities dealer pursuant to rule 15Ba2-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or amendment to such application.
This Form is to be used by a bank or a separately identifiable department or division of a bank (as defined by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board) to apply for registration as a municipal securities dealer with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to section 15B(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Act”), or to amend such application.

# Note:
Copies of Form MSD have been filed with the Office of the Federal Register as part of this document. Copies of Forms BD and MSD may be obtained from the Office of Reports and Information Services; Securities and Exchange Commission, 500 North Capitol Street, Washington, DC, 20549. Only printed copies of Form MSD should be used to apply for registration with the Commission.
[40 FR 49777, Oct. 24, 1975; 40 FR 54425, Nov. 24, 1975]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form MSD, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1110
Form MSDW, notice of withdrawal from registration as a municipal securities dealer pursuant to Rule 15Bc3-1 (17 CFR 240.15Bc3-1).
This form is to be used by a bank or a separately identifiable department or division of a bank (as defined by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board) to withdraw from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a municipal securities dealer pursuant to section 15B(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

# Note:
Copies of Form MSDW have been filed with the Office of the Federal Register as part of this document. Copies of Form MSDW may be obtained from the Publications Section, Securities and Exchange Commission, 500 North Capitol Street, Washington, DC 20549.
[41 FR 28949, July 14, 1976]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form MSDW, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart M—Forms for Reporting and Inquiry With Respect to Missing, Lost, Stolen, or Counterfeit Securities
§ 249.1200
Form X-17F-1A—Report for missing, lost, stolen or counterfeit securities.
This form is to be filed with the Commission or its designee pursuant to paragraph (c) of § 240.17f-1 of this chapter by all reporting institutions subject to section 17(f)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
[44 FR 31504, May 31, 1979]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form X-17F-1A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart N—Forms for Registration of Municipal Advisors and for Providing Information Regarding Certain Natural Persons

# Source:
78 FR 67639, Nov. 12, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 249.1300
Form MA, for registration as a municipal advisor, and for amendments to registration.
The form shall be used for registration as a municipal advisor pursuant to section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4) and for amendments to registrations.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form MA-T, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1300T
Form MA-T, for temporary registration as a municipal advisor, and for amendments to, and withdrawals from, temporary registration.
The form shall be used for temporary registration as a municipal advisor, and for amendments to, and withdrawals from, temporary registration pursuant to Section 15B of the Exchange Act, (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4).

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form MA-T, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1310
Form MA-I, for providing information regarding natural person municipal advisors, and for amendments to such information.
The form shall be used for providing information regarding natural person municipal advisors, and for amendments to such information.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form MA-I, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1320
Form MA-W, for withdrawal from registration as a municipal advisor.
The form shall be used for filing a notice of withdrawal from registration as a municipal advisor pursuant to section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4).

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form MA-W, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1330
Form MA-NR, for appointment of agent for service of process by non-resident municipal advisor, non-resident general partner or managing agent of a municipal advisor, and non-resident natural person associated with a municipal advisor.
The form shall be used to furnish information pertaining to the appointment of agent for service of process by a non-resident municipal advisor and by registered municipal advisors to furnish the same for each of its non-resident general partner or managing agent, or non-resident natural person associated with a municipal advisor pursuant to section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-4).

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form MA-NR, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart O—Forms for Asset-Backed Securities
§ 249.1400
Form ABS-15G, Asset-backed securitizer report pursuant to Section 15G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This form shall be used for reports of information required by Rule 15Ga-1 (§ 240.15Ga-1 of this chapter).
[76 FR 4515, Jan. 26, 2011]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ABS-15G, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1401
Form ABS-EE, for submission of the asset-data file exhibits and related documents.
This Form shall be used by an electronic filer for the submission of information required by Item 1111(h) (§ 229.1111(h) of this chapter).
[79 FR 57346, Sept. 24, 2014]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form ABS-EE, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart P—Forms for Registration of Security-Based Swap Data Repositories
§ 249.1500
Form SDR, for application for registration as a security-based swap data repository, amendments thereto, or withdrawal from registration.
The form shall be used for registration as a security-based swap data repository, and for the amendments to and withdrawal from such registration pursuant to section 13(n) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)).
[80 FR 14557, Mar. 19, 2015]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SDR, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart Q—Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants

# Source:
80 FR 49017 Aug. 14, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 249.1600
Form SBSE, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration.
This form shall be used for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant by firms that are not registered with the Commission as a broker or dealer and that are not registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant, pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) and to amend such an application for registration.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SBSE, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1600a
Form SBSE-A, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration by firms registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant that are not also registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer.
This form shall be used instead of Form SBSE (§ 249.1600) to apply for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant by firms that are not registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer but that are registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant, pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) and to amend such an application for registration. An entity that is registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer and is also registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant shall apply for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant on Form SBSE-BD (§ 249.1600b) and not on this Form SBSE-A.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SBSE-A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1600b
Form SBSE-BD, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration by firms registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer.
This form shall be used instead of either Form SBSE (§ 249.1600) or SBSE-A (§ 249.1600a) to apply for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant solely by firms registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer, pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) and to amend such an application for registration. An entity that is registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer and is also registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant, shall apply for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant on this Form SBSE-BD and not on Form SBSE-A.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SBSE-BD, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1600c
Form SBSE-C, for certification by security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
This form shall be used to file required certifications on Form SBSE-C pursuant to § 240.15Fb2-1(a) of this chapter.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SBSE-C, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249.1601
Form SBSE-W, for withdrawal from registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration.
This form shall be used to withdraw from registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)).

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SBSE-W, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart R—Forms for Registration of, and Filings by, Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities

# Source:
88 FR 87316, Dec. 15, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 249.1701
Form SBSEF, for application for registration as a security-based swap execution facility or to amend such application or registration.
This form shall be used for application for registration as a security-based swap execution facility, pursuant to section 3D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-4) and § 242.803 of this chapter, or to amend such application or registration.
§ 249.1702
Submission cover sheet, for rule and product submissions.
This submission cover sheet shall be used by registered security-based swap execution facilities for making submissions pursuant to §§ 242.804 through 242.807, 242.809, and 242.816).
Subpart S [Reserved]

# Subpart T—Form SCI, for filing notices and reports as required by Regulation SCI.
§ 249.1900.
Form SCI, for filing notices and reports as required by Regulation SCI.
Form SCI shall be used to file notices and reports as required by Regulation SCI (§§ 242.1000 through 242.1007).
[79 FR 72440, Dec. 5, 2014]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SCI, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart U—Forms for Registration of Funding Portals
§ 249.2000
Form Funding Portal.
This form shall be used for filings by funding portals under Regulation Crowdfunding (part 227 of this chapter).
[80 FR 71570, Nov. 16, 2015]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form Funding Portal, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
PART 249a—FORMS, SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970 [RESERVED]
Pt. 249b

# PART 249b—FURTHER FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Sec.
249b.1-249b.99
[Reserved]
249b.100
Form TA-1, uniform form for registration as a transfer agent pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249b.101
Form TA-W, notice of withdrawal from registration as transfer agent.
249b.102
Form TA-2, form to be used by transfer agents registered pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the annual report of transfer agent activities.
249b.200
Form CA-1, form for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency and for amendment to registration as a clearing agency pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
249b.300
FORM NRSRO, application for registration as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization pursuant to section 15E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 240.17g-1 of this chapter.
249b.400
Form SD, specialized disclosure report.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.,
unless otherwise noted;
Sections 249b.100 and 249b.102 also issued under secs. 17, 17A and 23(a); 48 Stat. 897, as amended, 89 Stat. 137, 141 and 48 Stat. 901 (15 U.S.C. 78q, 78q-1, 78w(a)).
Section 249b.400 is also issued under secs. 1502 and 1504, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 2213 and 2220.
§§ 249b.1-249b.99
[Reserved]
§ 249b.100
Form TA-1,
1
uniform form for registration as a transfer agent pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
1
Copies of the form may be obtained from the Publications Section, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 and from each of the Commission's regional offices.
This form shall be used for application for registration as a transfer agent and for amendment to registration as a transfer agent pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
[40 FR 51184, Nov. 4, 1975, as amended at 51 FR 12127, Apr. 9, 1986; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form TA-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249b.101
Form TA-W, notice of withdrawal from registration as transfer agent.
This form shall be used for withdrawing, pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registration of transfer agents registered with the Commission.
(Secs. 2, 17, 17A and 23(a); (15 U.S.C. 78b, 78a, 78a-1 and 78w(a)))
[42 FR 44984, Sept. 8, 1977]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form TA-W, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249b.102
Form TA-2,
1
form to be used by transfer agents registered pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the annual report of transfer agent activities.
1
Copies of the form may be obtained from the Publication Section, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 and from each of the Commission's regional offices.
This form shall be used on an annual basis for registered transfer agents for reporting their business activities.
[51 FR 12134, Apr. 9, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form TA-2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249b.200
Form CA-1,
1
form for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency and for amendment to registration as a clearing agency pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
1
Copies of the form may be obtained from the Publication Section, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549 and from each of the Commission's regional offices.
This form shall be used for application for registration or for exemption from registration as a clearing agency and for amendment to registration as a clearing agency pursuant to section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
[40 FR 52359, Nov. 10, 1975, as amended at 51 FR 12134, Apr. 9, 1986; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form CA-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249b.300
FORM NRSRO, application for registration as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization pursuant to section 15E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 240.17g-1 of this chapter.
This Form shall be used for an initial application for and an application to add a class of credit ratings to, a supplement to an initial application for and an application to add a class of credit ratings to, an update and amendment to an application for, and a withdrawal from a registration as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization pursuant to section 15E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-7) and § 240.17g-1 of this chapter.
[72 FR 33624, June 18, 2007]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form NRSRO, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 249b.400
Form SD, specialized disclosure report.
(a) This Form shall be filed pursuant to § 240.13p-1 of this chapter by registrants that file reports with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are required to disclose the information required by Section 13(p) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 13p-1 (§ 240.13p-1) of this chapter.
(b) This Form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 13q-1 (§ 240.13q-1) of this chapter by resource extraction issuers that are required to disclose the information required by Section 13(q) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(q)) and Rule 13q-1 of this chapter.
[77 FR 56362, Sept. 12, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 56418, Sept. 12, 2012]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SD, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 250

# PART 250—CROSS-BORDER ANTIFRAUD LAW-ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77s, 77v(c), 78w, 78aa(b), 80b-11, and 80b-14(b).

# Source:
79 FR 47372, Aug. 12, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 250.1
Cross-border antifraud law-enforcement authority.
(a) Notwithstanding any other Commission rule or regulation, the antifraud provisions of the securities laws apply to:
(1) Conduct within the United States that constitutes significant steps in furtherance of the violation; or
(2) Conduct occurring outside the United States that has a foreseeable substantial effect within the United States.
(b) The antifraud provisions of the securities laws apply to conduct described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section even if:
(1) The violation relates to a securities transaction or securities transactions occurring outside the United
States that involves only foreign investors; or
(2) The violation is committed by a foreign adviser and involves only foreign investors.
(c) Violations of the antifraud provisions of the securities laws described in this section may be pursued in judicial proceedings brought by the Commission or the United States.
PARTS 251-254 [RESERVED]
Pt. 255

# PART 255—PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDS

# Subpart A—Authority and Definitions
Sec.
255.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities
255.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Proprietary Trading
255.3
Prohibition on proprietary trading.
255.4
Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
255.5
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
255.6
Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
255.7
Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
255.8-255.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Covered Fund Activities and Investments
255.10
Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain relationships with a covered fund.
255.11
Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect to a covered fund.
255.12
Permitted investment in a covered fund.
255.13
Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
255.14
Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
255.15
Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities and investments.
255.16
Ownership of interests in and sponsorship of issuers of certain collateralized debt obligations backed by trust-preferred securities.
255.17-255.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
255.20
Program for compliance; reporting.
255.21
Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
Appendix A to Part 255—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1851.

# Source:
79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority and Definitions
§ 255.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the SEC under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(b)
Purpose.
Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or relationships with covered funds by certain banking entities, including registered broker-dealers, registered investment advisers, and registered security-based swap dealers, among others identified in section 2(12)(B) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5301(12)(B)). This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act by defining terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and investments in or relationships with covered funds, and explaining the statute's requirements.
(c)
Scope.
This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act with respect to banking entities for which the SEC is the primary financial regulatory agency, as defined in this part, but does not include such entities to the extent they are not within the definition of banking entity in § 255.2(c).
(d)
Relationship to other authorities.
Except as otherwise provided under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of Bank Holding Company Act shall apply
to the activities and investments of a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section, even if such activities and investments are authorized for the banking entity under other applicable provisions of law.
(e)
Preservation of authority.
Nothing in this part limits in any way the authority of the SEC to impose on a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section additional requirements or restrictions with respect to any activity, investment, or relationship covered under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, or additional penalties for violation of this part provided under any other applicable provision of law.
[79 FR 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35022, July 22, 2019]
§ 255.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(k)).
(b)
Bank holding company
has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
(c)
Banking entity.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section,
banking entity
means:
(i) Any insured depository institution;
(ii) Any company that controls an insured depository institution;
(iii) Any company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(iv) Any affiliate or subsidiary of any entity described in paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2) Banking entity does not include:
(i) A covered fund that is not itself a banking entity under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(ii) A portfolio company held under the authority contained in section 4(k)(4)(H) or (I) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H), (I)), or any portfolio concern, as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), so long as the portfolio company or portfolio concern is not itself a banking entity under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; or
(iii) The FDIC acting in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(d)
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(e)
CFTC
means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(f)
Dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(5) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(g)
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
(h)
Derivative.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section,
derivative
means:
(i) Any swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68));
(ii) Any purchase or sale of a commodity, that is not an excluded commodity, for deferred shipment or delivery that is intended to be physically settled;
(iii) Any foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)) or foreign exchange swap (as that term is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25));
(iv) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(C)(i));
(v) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in a commodity other than foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(D)(i)); and
(vi) Any transaction authorized under section 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 23(a) or (b));
(2) A derivative does not include:
(i) Any consumer, commercial, or other agreement, contract, or transaction that the CFTC and SEC have
further defined by joint regulation, interpretation, or other action as not within the definition of swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)); or
(ii) Any identified banking product, as defined in section 402(b) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)), that is subject to section 403(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 27a(a)).
(i)
Employee
includes a member of the immediate family of the employee.
(j)
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
(k)
Excluded commodity
has the same meaning as in section 1a(19) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(19)).
(l)
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(m)
Federal banking agencies
means the Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC.
(n)
Foreign banking organization
has the same meaning as in § 211.21(o) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(o)), but does not include a foreign bank, as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)), that is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(o)
Foreign insurance regulator
means the insurance commissioner, or a similar official or agency, of any country other than the United States that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies under foreign insurance law.
(p)
General account
means all of the assets of an insurance company except those allocated to one or more separate accounts.
(q)
Insurance company
means a company that is organized as an insurance company, primarily and predominantly engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, subject to supervision as such by a state insurance regulator or a foreign insurance regulator, and not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of section 13 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(r)
Insured depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)), but does not include:
(1) An insured depository institution that is described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); or
(2) An insured depository institution if it has, and if every company that controls it has, total consolidated assets of $10 billion or less and total trading assets and trading liabilities, on a consolidated basis, that are 5 percent or less of total consolidated assets.
(s)
Limited trading assets and liabilities
means with respect to a banking entity that:
(1)(i) The banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 255.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four previous calendar quarters, is less than $1 billion; and
(ii) The SEC has not determined pursuant to § 255.20(g) or (h) of this part that the banking entity should not be treated as having limited trading assets and liabilities.
(2) With respect to a banking entity other than a banking entity described in paragraph (s)(3) of this section, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (s) means trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 255.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) on a worldwide consolidated basis.
(3)(i) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization or a subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (s) means the trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 255.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) of the combined U.S. operations of the top-tier foreign banking organization (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, and
agencies of the foreign banking organization operating, located, or organized in the United States).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (s)(3)(i) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. For purposes of paragraph (s)(3)(i) of this section, all foreign operations of a U.S. agency, branch, or subsidiary of a foreign banking organization are considered to be located in the United States, including branches outside the United States that are managed or controlled by a U.S. branch or agency of the foreign banking organization, for purposes of calculating the banking entity's U.S. trading assets and liabilities.
(t)
Loan
means any loan, lease, extension of credit, or secured or unsecured receivable that is not a security or derivative.
(u)
Moderate trading assets and liabilities
means, with respect to a banking entity, that the banking entity does not have significant trading assets and liabilities or limited trading assets and liabilities.
(v)
Primary financial regulatory agency
has the same meaning as in section 2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301(12)).
(w)
Purchase
includes any contract to buy, purchase, or otherwise acquire. For security futures products, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, purchase includes the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(x)
Qualifying foreign banking organization
means a foreign banking organization that qualifies as such under § 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), or (e)).
(y)
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(z)
Sale
and
sell
each include any contract to sell or otherwise dispose of. For security futures products, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, such terms include the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(aa)
Security
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)).
(bb)
Security-based swap dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(71) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)).
(cc)
Security future
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(55) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(55)).
(dd)
Separate account
means an account established and maintained by an insurance company in connection with one or more insurance contracts to hold assets that are legally segregated from the insurance company's other assets, under which income, gains, and losses, whether or not realized, from assets allocated to such account, are, in accordance with the applicable contract, credited to or charged against such account without regard to other income, gains, or losses of the insurance company.
(ee)
Significant trading assets and liabilities
means with respect to a banking entity that: (1)(i) The banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four previous calendar quarters, equals or exceeds $20 billion; or
(ii) The SEC has determined pursuant to § 255.20(h) of this part that the banking entity should be treated as having significant trading assets and liabilities.
(2) With respect to a banking entity, other than a banking entity described in paragraph (ee)(3) of this section, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (ee) means trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 255.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) on a worldwide consolidated basis.
(3)(i) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization or a subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (ee) means the trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 255.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) of the combined U.S. operations of the top-tier foreign banking organization (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, and agencies of the foreign banking organization operating, located, or organized in the United States as well as branches outside the United States that are managed or controlled by a branch or agency of the foreign banking entity operating, located or organized in the United States).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (ee)(3)(i) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. For purposes of paragraph (ee)(3)(i) of this section, all foreign operations of a U.S. agency, branch, or subsidiary of a foreign banking organization are considered to be located in the United States for purposes of calculating the banking entity's U.S. trading assets and liabilities.
(ff)
State
means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(gg)
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 2(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)).
(hh)
State insurance regulator
means the insurance commissioner, or a similar official or agency, of a State that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies under State insurance law.
(ii)
Swap dealer
has the same meaning as in section 1(a)(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(49)).
[84 FR 62237, Nov. 14, 2019]

# Subpart B—Proprietary Trading
§ 255.3
Prohibition on proprietary trading.
(a)
Prohibition.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity may not engage in proprietary trading.
Proprietary trading
means engaging as principal for the trading account of the banking entity in any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments.
(b)
Definition of trading account.
(1)
Trading account.
Trading account means:
(i) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments principally for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging one or more of the positions resulting from the purchases or sales of financial instruments described in this paragraph;
(ii) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments that are both market risk capital rule covered positions and trading positions (or hedges of other market risk capital rule covered positions), if the banking entity, or any affiliate with which the banking entity is consolidated for regulatory reporting purposes, calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule; or
(iii) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments, if the banking entity:
(A) Is licensed or registered, or is required to be licensed or registered, to engage in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer,
to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities that require the banking entity to be licensed or registered as such; or
(B) Is engaged in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer outside of the United States, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities of such business.
(2)
Trading account application for certain banking entities.
(i) A banking entity that is subject to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account is not subject to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) A banking entity that does not calculate risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule and is not a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes of a banking entity that calculates risk based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule may elect to apply paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account as if it were subject to that paragraph. A banking entity that elects under this section to apply paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account as if it were subject to that paragraph is not required to apply paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(3)
Consistency of account election for certain banking entities.
(i) Any election or change to an election under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must apply to the electing banking entity and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The primary financial regulatory agency of a banking entity that is affiliated with but is not a wholly owned subsidiary of such electing banking entity may require that the banking entity be subject to this uniform application requirement if the primary financial regulatory agency determines that it is necessary to prevent evasion of the requirements of this part after notice and opportunity for response as provided in subpart D.
(ii) A banking entity that does not elect under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to be subject to the trading account definition in (b)(1)(ii) may continue to apply the trading account definition in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for one year from the date on which it becomes, or becomes a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes with, a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule.
(4)
Rebuttable presumption for certain purchases and sales.
The purchase (or sale) of a financial instrument by a banking entity shall be presumed not to be for the trading account of the banking entity under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if the banking entity holds the financial instrument for sixty days or longer and does not transfer substantially all of the risk of the financial instrument within sixty days of the purchase (or sale).
(c)
Financial instrument.
(1)
Financial instrument
means:
(i) A security, including an option on a security;
(ii) A derivative, including an option on a derivative; or
(iii) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery.
(2) A financial instrument does not include:
(i) A loan;
(ii) A commodity that is not:
(A) An excluded commodity (other than foreign exchange or currency);
(B) A derivative;
(C) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or
(D) An option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or
(iii) Foreign exchange or currency.
(d)
Proprietary trading.
Proprietary trading does not include:
(1) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that arises under a repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement pursuant to which the banking entity has simultaneously agreed, in writing, to both purchase and sell a stated asset, at stated prices, and on stated dates or on demand with the same counterparty;
(2) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that arises under a transaction in which the banking entity
lends or borrows a security temporarily to or from another party pursuant to a written securities lending agreement under which the lender retains the economic interests of an owner of such security, and has the right to terminate the transaction and to recall the loaned security on terms agreed by the parties;
(3) Any purchase or sale of a security, foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)), foreign exchange swap (as that term is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25)), or cross-currency swap by a banking entity for the purpose of liquidity management in accordance with a documented liquidity management plan of the banking entity that:
(i) Specifically contemplates and authorizes the particular financial instruments to be used for liquidity management purposes, the amount, types, and risks of these financial instruments that are consistent with liquidity management, and the liquidity circumstances in which the particular financial instruments may or must be used;
(ii) Requires that any purchase or sale of financial instruments contemplated and authorized by the plan be principally for the purpose of managing the liquidity of the banking entity, and not for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging a position taken for such short-term purposes;
(iii) Requires that any financial instruments purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes be highly liquid and limited to financial instruments the market, credit, and other risks of which the banking entity does not reasonably expect to give rise to appreciable profits or losses as a result of short-term price movements;
(iv) Limits any financial instruments purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes, together with any other financial instruments purchased or sold for such purposes, to an amount that is consistent with the banking entity's near-term funding needs, including deviations from normal operations of the banking entity or any affiliate thereof, as estimated and documented pursuant to methods specified in the plan;
(v) Includes written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing to ensure that the purchase and sale of financial instruments that are not permitted under § 255.6(a) or (b) of this subpart are for the purpose of liquidity management and in accordance with the liquidity management plan described in this paragraph (d)(3); and
(vi) Is consistent with the SEC's regulatory requirements regarding liquidity management;
(4) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that is a derivatives clearing organization or a clearing agency in connection with clearing financial instruments;
(5) Any excluded clearing activities by a banking entity that is a member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(6) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity, so long as:
(i) The purchase (or sale) satisfies an existing delivery obligation of the banking entity or its customers, including to prevent or close out a failure to deliver, in connection with delivery, clearing, or settlement activity; or
(ii) The purchase (or sale) satisfies an obligation of the banking entity in connection with a judicial, administrative, self-regulatory organization, or arbitration proceeding;
(7) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that is acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian;
(8) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the
purchase or sale is made directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity;
(9) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity in the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the financial instrument as soon as practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such instrument for longer than such period permitted by the SEC;
(10) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that was made in error by a banking entity in the course of conducting a permitted or excluded activity or is a subsequent transaction to correct such an error;
(11) Contemporaneously entering into a customer-driven swap or customer-driven security-based swap and a matched swap or security-based swap if:
(i) The banking entity retains no more than minimal price risk; and
(ii) The banking entity is not a registered dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer;
(12) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that the banking entity uses to hedge mortgage servicing rights or mortgage servicing assets in accordance with a documented hedging strategy; or
(13) Any purchase or sale of a financial instrument that does not meet the definition of trading asset or trading liability under the applicable reporting form for a banking entity as of January 1, 2020.
(e)
Definition of other terms related to proprietary trading.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Anonymous
means that each party to a purchase or sale is unaware of the identity of the other party(ies) to the purchase or sale.
(2)
Clearing agency
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(23) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)).
(3)
Commodity
has the same meaning as in section 1a(9) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(9)), except that a commodity does not include any security;
(4)
Contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery
means a contract of sale (as that term is defined in section 1a(13) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(13)) for future delivery (as that term is defined in section 1a(27) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(27))).
(5)
Cross-currency swap
means a swap in which one party exchanges with another party principal and interest rate payments in one currency for principal and interest rate payments in another currency, and the exchange of principal occurs on the date the swap is entered into, with a reversal of the exchange of principal at a later date that is agreed upon when the swap is entered into.
(6)
Derivatives clearing organization
means:
(i) A derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1);
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is exempt from the registration requirements under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1); or
(iii) A foreign derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is permitted to clear for a foreign board of trade that is registered with the CFTC.
(7)
Exchange,
unless the context otherwise requires, means any designated contract market, swap execution facility, or foreign board of trade registered with the CFTC, or, for purposes of securities or security-based swaps, an exchange, as defined under section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1)), or security-based swap execution facility, as defined under section 3(a)(77) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77)).
(8)
Excluded clearing activities
means:
(i) With respect to customer transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, a clearing agency, or a designated financial market utility, any purchase or sale necessary to correct trading errors made by or on behalf of a customer provided that such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC
regulations, and the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial market utility;
(ii) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of a default or threatened imminent default of a customer provided that such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial market utility;
(iii) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of a default or threatened imminent default of a member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(iv) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of the default or threatened default of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market utility; and
(v) Any purchase or sale that is required by the rules or procedures of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market utility to mitigate the risk to the clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or designated financial market utility that would result from the clearing by a member of security-based swaps that reference the member or an affiliate of the member.
(9)
Designated financial market utility
has the same meaning as in section 803(4) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5462(4)).
(10)
Issuer
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(4) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(4)).
(11)
Market risk capital rule covered position and trading position
means a financial instrument that meets the criteria to be a covered position and a trading position, as those terms are respectively defined, without regard to whether the financial instrument is reported as a covered position or trading position on any applicable regulatory reporting forms:
(i) In the case of a banking entity that is a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or insured depository institution, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable to the banking entity; and
(ii) In the case of a banking entity that is affiliated with a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, other than a banking entity to which a market risk capital rule is applicable, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable to the affiliated bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
(12)
Market risk capital rule
means the market risk capital rule that is contained in 12 CFR part 3, subpart F, with respect to a banking entity for which the OCC is the primary financial regulatory agency, 12 CFR part 217 with respect to a banking entity for which the Board is the primary financial regulatory agency, or 12 CFR part 324 with respect to a banking entity for which the FDIC is the primary financial regulatory agency.
(13)
Municipal security
means a security that is a direct obligation of or issued by, or an obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by, a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any municipal corporate instrumentality of one or more States or political subdivisions thereof.
(14)
Trading desk
means a unit of organization of a banking entity that purchases or sells financial instruments for the trading account of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that is:
(i)(A) Structured by the banking entity to implement a well-defined business strategy;
(B) Organized to ensure appropriate setting, monitoring, and management review of the desk's trading and hedging limits, current and potential future loss exposures, and strategies; and
(C) Characterized by a clearly defined unit that:
(
1
) Engages in coordinated trading activity with a unified approach to its key elements;
(
2
) Operates subject to a common and calibrated set of risk metrics, risk levels, and joint trading limits;
(
3
) Submits compliance reports and other information as a unit for monitoring by management; and
(
4
) Books its trades together; or
(ii) For a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule, or a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes of a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule, established by the banking entity or its affiliate for purposes of market risk capital calculations under the market risk capital rule.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62239, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 255.4
Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
(a)
Underwriting activities
—(1)
Permitted underwriting activities.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity's underwriting activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (a).
(2)
Requirements.
The underwriting activities of a banking entity are permitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity is acting as an underwriter for a distribution of securities and the trading desk's underwriting position is related to such distribution;
(ii)(A) The amount and type of the securities in the trading desk's underwriting position are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities; and
(B) Reasonable efforts are made to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position within a reasonable period, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities;
(iii) In the case of a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and addressing:
(A) The products, instruments or exposures each trading desk may purchase, sell, or manage as part of its underwriting activities;
(B) Limits for each trading desk, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section;
(C) Written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval; and
(D) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk's compliance with its limits.
(iv) A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(B) and (C) of this section by complying with the requirements set forth below in paragraph (c) of this section;
(v) The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities described in this paragraph (a) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading; and
(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in the activity described in this paragraph (a) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)
Definition of distribution.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), a distribution of securities means:
(i) An offering of securities, whether or not subject to registration under the
Securities Act of 1933, that is distinguished from ordinary trading transactions by the presence of special selling efforts and selling methods; or
(ii) An offering of securities made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933.
(4)
Definition of underwriter.
For purposes of this paragraph (a),
underwriter
means:
(i) A person who has agreed with an issuer or selling security holder to:
(A) Purchase securities from the issuer or selling security holder for distribution;
(B) Engage in a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or
(C) Manage a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or
(ii) A person who has agreed to participate or is participating in a distribution of such securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder.
(5)
Definition of selling security holder.
For purposes of this paragraph (a),
selling security holder
means any person, other than an issuer, on whose behalf a distribution is made.
(6)
Definition of underwriting position.
For purposes of this section,
underwriting position
means the long or short positions in one or more securities held by a banking entity or its affiliate, and managed by a particular trading desk, in connection with a particular distribution of securities for which such banking entity or affiliate is acting as an underwriter.
(7)
Definition of client, customer, and counterparty.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), the terms
client, customer, and counterparty,
on a collective or individual basis, refer to market participants that may transact with the banking entity in connection with a particular distribution for which the banking entity is acting as underwriter.
(b)
Market making-related activities
—(1)
Permitted market making-related activities.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity's market making-related activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (b).
(2)
Requirements.
The market making-related activities of a banking entity are permitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The trading desk that establishes and manages the financial exposure, routinely stands ready to purchase and sell one or more types of financial instruments related to its financial exposure, and is willing and available to quote, purchase and sell, or otherwise enter into long and short positions in those types of financial instruments for its own account, in commercially reasonable amounts and throughout market cycles on a basis appropriate for the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments;
(ii) The trading desk's market-making related activities are designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments;
(iii) In the case of a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and addressing:
(A) The financial instruments each trading desk stands ready to purchase and sell in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) The actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate promptly the risks of its financial exposure consistent with the limits required under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(C) of this section; the products, instruments, and exposures each trading desk may use for risk management purposes; the techniques and strategies each trading desk may use to manage the risks of its market making-related activities and positions; and the process, strategies,
and personnel responsible for ensuring that the actions taken by the trading desk to mitigate these risks are and continue to be effective;
(C) Limits for each trading desk, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(D) Written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval; and
(E) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk's compliance with its limits.
(iv) A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(C) and (D) of this section by complying with the requirements set forth below in paragraph (c) of this section;
(v) The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities described in this paragraph (b) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading; and
(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in activity described in this paragraph (b) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)
Definition of client, customer, and counterparty.
For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the terms
client, customer, and counterparty,
on a collective or individual basis refer to market participants that make use of the banking entity's market making-related services by obtaining such services, responding to quotations, or entering into a continuing relationship with respect to such services, provided that:
(i) A trading desk or other organizational unit of another banking entity is not a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk if that other entity has trading assets and liabilities of $50 billion or more as measured in accordance with the methodology described in § 255.2(ee) of this part, unless:
(A) The trading desk documents how and why a particular trading desk or other organizational unit of the entity should be treated as a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk for purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(B) The purchase or sale by the trading desk is conducted anonymously on an exchange or similar trading facility that permits trading on behalf of a broad range of market participants.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4)
Definition of financial exposure.
For purposes of this section,
financial exposure
means the aggregate risks of one or more financial instruments and any associated loans, commodities, or foreign exchange or currency, held by a banking entity or its affiliate and managed by a particular trading desk as part of the trading desk's market making-related activities.
(5)
Definition of market-maker positions.
For the purposes of this section,
market-maker positions
means all of the positions in the financial instruments for which the trading desk stands ready to make a market in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, that are managed by the trading desk, including the trading desk's open positions or exposures arising from open transactions.
(c)
Rebuttable presumption of compliance
—(1)
Internal limits.
(i) A banking entity shall be presumed to meet the requirement in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section with respect to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument if the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces the internal limits for the relevant trading desk as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)(A) With respect to underwriting activities conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be available to each trading desk that establishes, implements, maintains, and enforces internal limits that should take into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities and are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk's underwriting activities, on the:
(
1
) Amount, types, and risk of its underwriting position;
(
2
) Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its underwriting position; and
(
3
) Period of time a security may be held.
(B) With respect to market making-related activities conducted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be available to each trading desk that establishes, implements, maintains, and enforces internal limits that should take into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments and are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk's market-making related activities, that address the:
(
1
) Amount, types, and risks of its market-maker positions;
(
2
) Amount, types, and risks of the products, instruments, and exposures the trading desk may use for risk management purposes;
(
3
) Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its financial exposure; and
(
4
) Period of time a financial instrument may be held.
(2)
Supervisory review and oversight.
The limits described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be subject to supervisory review and oversight by the SEC on an ongoing basis.
(3)
Limit breaches and increases.
(i) With respect to any limit set pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, a banking entity shall maintain and make available to the SEC upon request records regarding any limit that is exceeded and any temporary or permanent increase to any limit(s), in each case in the form and manner as directed by the SEC.
(ii) In the event of a breach or increase of any limit set pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall continue to be available only if the banking entity:
(A) Takes action as promptly as possible after a breach to bring the trading desk into compliance; and
(B) Follows established written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that exceeds a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval.
(4)
Rebutting the presumption.
The presumption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may be rebutted by the SEC if the SEC determines, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments and based on all relevant facts and circumstances, that a trading desk is engaging in activity that is not based on the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. The SEC's rebuttal of the presumption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in subpart D of this part.
[84 FR 62241, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 255.5
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(a)
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity in connection with and related to individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity and designed to reduce the specific risks to the banking entity in connection with and related to such positions, contracts, or other holdings.
(b)
Requirements.
(1) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this section, including:
(A) Reasonably designed written policies and procedures regarding the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging, including documentation indicating what positions, contracts or other holdings a particular trading desk may use in its risk-mitigating hedging activities, as well as position and aging limits with respect to such positions, contracts or other holdings;
(B) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(C) The conduct of analysis and independent testing designed to ensure that the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging may reasonably be expected to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risk(s) being hedged;
(ii) The risk-mitigating hedging activity:
(A) Is conducted in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and internal controls required under this section;
(B) At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the identified underlying and hedging positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and liquidity thereof;
(C) Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this section;
(D) Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the banking entity that:
(
1
) Is consistent with the written hedging policies and procedures required under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(
2
) Is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks that develop over time from the risk-mitigating hedging activities undertaken under this section and the underlying positions, contracts, and other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the underlying and hedging positions, contracts and other holdings of the banking entity and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(
3
) Requires ongoing recalibration of the hedging activity by the banking entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading; and
(iii) The compensation arrangements of persons performing risk-mitigating hedging activities are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading.
(2) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity that does not have significant trading assets and liabilities are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if the risk-mitigating hedging activity:
(i) At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the identified underlying and hedging positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(ii) Is subject, as appropriate, to ongoing recalibration by the banking entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading.
(c)
Documentation requirement.
(1) A banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, unless the requirements of paragraph
(c)(4) of this section are met, with respect to any purchase or sale of financial instruments made in reliance on this section for risk-mitigating hedging purposes that is:
(i) Not established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the hedging activity is designed to reduce;
(ii) Established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the purchases or sales are designed to reduce, but that is effected through a financial instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy that is not specifically identified in the trading desk's written policies and procedures established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or under § 255.4(b)(2)(iii)(B) of this subpart as a product, instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy such trading desk may use for hedging; or
(iii) Established to hedge aggregated positions across two or more trading desks.
(2) In connection with any purchase or sale identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a banking entity must, at a minimum, and contemporaneously with the purchase or sale, document:
(i) The specific, identifiable risk(s) of the identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity that the purchase or sale is designed to reduce;
(ii) The specific risk-mitigating strategy that the purchase or sale is designed to fulfill; and
(iii) The trading desk or other business unit that is establishing and responsible for the hedge.
(3) A banking entity must create and retain records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (c) for a period that is no less than five years in a form that allows the banking entity to promptly produce such records to the SEC on request, or such longer period as required under other law or this part.
(4) The requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section do not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if:
(i) The financial instrument purchased or sold is identified on a written list of pre-approved financial instruments that are commonly used by the trading desk for the specific type of hedging activity for which the financial instrument is being purchased or sold; and
(ii) At the time the financial instrument is purchased or sold, the hedging activity (including the purchase or sale of the financial instrument) complies with written, pre-approved limits for the trading desk purchasing or selling the financial instrument for hedging activities undertaken for one or more other trading desks. The limits shall be appropriate for the:
(A) Size, types, and risks of the hedging activities commonly undertaken by the trading desk;
(B) Financial instruments purchased and sold for hedging activities by the trading desk; and
(C) Levels and duration of the risk exposures being hedged.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62243, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 255.6
Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a)
Permitted trading in domestic government obligations.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale by a banking entity of a financial instrument that is:
(1) An obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the United States;
(2) An obligation, participation, or other instrument of, or issued or guaranteed by, an agency of the United States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation or a Farm Credit System institution chartered under and subject to the provisions of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
);
(3) An obligation of any State or any political subdivision thereof, including any municipal security; or
(4) An obligation of the FDIC, or any entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for purpose of facilitating the
disposal of assets acquired or held by the FDIC in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(b)
Permitted trading in foreign government obligations
—(1)
Affiliates of foreign banking entities in the United States.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of such foreign sovereign, by a banking entity, so long as:
(i) The banking entity is organized under or is directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of a foreign sovereign and is not directly or indirectly controlled by a top-tier banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States;
(ii) The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign banking entity referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is organized (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii) The purchase or sale as principal is not made by an insured depository institution.
(2)
Foreign affiliates of a U.S. banking entity.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign, by a foreign entity that is owned or controlled by a banking entity organized or established under the laws of the United States or any State, so long as:
(i) The foreign entity is a foreign bank, as defined in section 211.2(j) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.2(j)), or is regulated by the foreign sovereign as a securities dealer;
(ii) The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign entity is organized (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii) The financial instrument is owned by the foreign entity and is not financed by an affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(c)
Permitted trading on behalf of customers
—(1)
Fiduciary transactions.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, so long as:
(i) The transaction is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer; and
(ii) The banking entity does not have or retain beneficial ownership of the financial instruments.
(2)
Riskless principal transactions.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting as riskless principal in a transaction in which the banking entity, after receiving an order to purchase (or sell) a financial instrument from a customer, purchases (or sells) the financial instrument for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
(d)
Permitted trading by a regulated insurance company.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity that is an insurance company or an affiliate of an insurance company if:
(1) The insurance company or its affiliate purchases or sells the financial instruments solely for:
(i) The general account of the insurance company; or
(ii) A separate account established by the insurance company;
(2) The purchase or sale is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of
the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law, regulation, or written guidance described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the covered banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(e)
Permitted trading activities of foreign banking entities.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity if:
(i) The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The purchase or sale by the banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act; and
(iii) The purchase or sale meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) A purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i) The purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of section 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following requirements:
(
1
) Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(
2
) Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States; or
(
3
) Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States.
(3) A purchase or sale by a banking entity is permitted for purposes of this paragraph (e) if:
(i) The banking entity engaging as principal in the purchase or sale (including relevant personnel) is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision to purchase or sell as principal is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iii) The purchase or sale, including any transaction arising from risk-mitigating hedging related to the instruments purchased or sold, is not accounted for as principal directly or on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is considered to be located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)
Permitted trading activities of qualifying foreign excluded funds.
The prohibition contained in § 255.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument by a qualifying foreign excluded fund. For purposes of this paragraph (f), a qualifying foreign excluded fund means a banking entity that:
(1) Is organized or established outside the United States, and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(2)(i) Would be a covered fund if the entity were organized or established in the United States, or
(ii) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in financial instruments for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in financial instruments;
(3) Would not otherwise be a banking entity except by virtue of the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, sponsorship of, or relationship with the entity, by another banking entity that meets the following:
(i) The banking entity is not organized, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized, under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(ii) The banking entity's acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of the fund meets the requirements for permitted covered fund activities and investments solely outside the United States, as provided in § 255.13(b);
(4) Is established and operated as part of a bona fide asset management business; and
(5) Is not operated in a manner that enables the banking entity that sponsors or controls the qualifying foreign excluded fund, or any of its affiliates, to evade the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62244, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46522, July 31, 2020]
§ 255.7
Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a) No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed permissible under §§ 255.4 through 255.6 if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would:
(1) Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2) Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3) Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Definition of material conflict of interest.
(1) For purposes of this section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity's interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)
Timely and effective disclosure.
(A) Has made clear, timely, and effective disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)
Information barriers.
Has established, maintained, and enforced information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity's business, to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions or activity, the banking entity
knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the banking entity's establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)
Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
High-risk asset
means an asset or group of related assets that would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2)
High-risk trading strategy
means a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
§§ 255.8-255.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Covered Funds Activities and Investments
§ 255.10
Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain relationships with a covered fund.
(a)
Prohibition.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity may not, as principal, directly or indirectly, acquire or retain any ownership interest in or sponsor a covered fund.
(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not include acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in a covered fund by a banking entity:
(i) Acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian, so long as;
(A) The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer; and
(B) The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest;
(ii) Through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the ownership interest is held or controlled directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(iii) In the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the ownership interest as soon as practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such ownership interest for longer than such period permitted by the SEC; or
(iv) On behalf of customers as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity for a customer that is not a covered fund, so long as:
(A) The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, the customer; and
(B) The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest.
(b)
Definition of covered fund.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, covered fund means:
(i) An issuer that would be an investment company, as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
),
but for
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) or (7));
(ii) Any commodity pool under section 1a(10) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(10)) for which:
(A) The commodity pool operator has claimed an exemption under 17 CFR 4.7; or
(B)(
1
) A commodity pool operator is registered with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator in connection with the operation of the commodity pool;
(
2
) Substantially all participation units of the commodity pool are owned by qualified eligible persons under 17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (3); and
(
3
) Participation units of the commodity pool have not been publicly offered to persons who are not qualified eligible persons under 17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (3); or
(iii) For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, an entity that:
(A) Is organized or established outside the United States and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(B) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities; and
(C)(
1
) Has as its sponsor that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof); or
(
2
) Has issued an ownership interest that is owned directly or indirectly by that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof).
(2) An issuer shall not be deemed to be a covered fund under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section if, were the issuer subject to U.S. securities laws, the issuer could rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, unless the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine otherwise, a covered fund does not include:
(1)
Foreign public funds.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, an issuer that:
(A) Is organized or established outside of the United States; and
(B) Is authorized to offer and sell ownership interests, and such interests are offered and sold, through one or more public offerings.
(ii) With respect to a banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and any issuer for which such banking entity acts as sponsor, the sponsoring banking entity may not rely on the exemption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for such issuer unless more than 75 percent of the ownership interests in the issuer are sold to persons other than:
(A) Such sponsoring banking entity;
(B) Such issuer;
(C) Affiliates of such sponsoring banking entity or such issuer; and
(D) Directors and senior executive officers as defined in § 225.71(c) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.71(c)) of such entities.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the term “public offering” means a distribution (as defined in § 255.4(a)(3)) of securities in any jurisdiction outside the United States to investors, including retail investors, provided that:
(A) The distribution is subject to substantive disclosure and retail investor protection laws or regulations;
(B) With respect to an issuer for which the banking entity serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, or sponsor, the distribution complies with all applicable requirements in the jurisdiction in which such distribution is being made;
(C) The distribution does not restrict availability to investors having a minimum level of net worth or net investment assets; and
(D) The issuer has filed or submitted, with the appropriate regulatory authority in such jurisdiction, offering disclosure documents that are publicly available.
(2)
Wholly-owned subsidiaries.
An entity, all of the outstanding ownership interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), except that:
(i) Up to five percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests, less any amounts outstanding under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, may be held by employees or directors of the banking entity or such affiliate (including former employees or directors if their ownership interest was acquired while employed by or in the service of the banking entity); and
(ii) Up to 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be held by a third party if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by
the third party for the purpose of establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.
(3)
Joint ventures.
A joint venture between a banking entity or any of its affiliates and one or more unaffiliated persons, provided that the joint venture:
(i) Is composed of no more than 10 unaffiliated co-venturers;
(ii) Is in the business of engaging in activities that are permissible for the banking entity or affiliate, other than investing in securities for resale or other disposition; and
(iii) Is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities.
(4)
Acquisition vehicles.
An issuer:
(i) Formed solely for the purpose of engaging in a
bona fide
merger or acquisition transaction; and
(ii) That exists only for such period as necessary to effectuate the transaction.
(5)
Foreign pension or retirement funds.
A plan, fund, or program providing pension, retirement, or similar benefits that is:
(i) Organized and administered outside the United States;
(ii) A broad-based plan for employees or citizens that is subject to regulation as a pension, retirement, or similar plan under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the plan, fund, or program is organized and administered; and
(iii) Established for the benefit of citizens or residents of one or more foreign sovereigns or any political subdivision thereof.
(6)
Insurance company separate accounts.
A separate account, provided that no banking entity other than the insurance company participates in the account's profits and losses.
(7)
Bank owned life insurance.
A separate account that is used solely for the purpose of allowing one or more banking entities to purchase a life insurance policy for which the banking entity or entities is beneficiary, provided that no banking entity that purchases the policy:
(i) Controls the investment decisions regarding the underlying assets or holdings of the separate account; or
(ii) Participates in the profits and losses of the separate account other than in compliance with applicable requirements regarding bank owned life insurance.
(8)
Loan securitizations.
(i)
Scope.
An issuing entity for asset-backed securities that satisfies all the conditions of this paragraph (c)(8) and the assets or holdings of which are composed solely of:
(A) Loans as defined in § 255.2(t);
(B) Rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to holders of such securities and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the loans, provided that each asset that is a security (other than special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section) meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iii) of this section;
(C) Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section;
(D) Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section; and
(E) Debt securities, other than asset-backed securities and convertible securities, provided that:
(
1
) The aggregate value of such debt securities does not exceed five percent of the aggregate value of loans held under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(A) of this section, cash and cash equivalents held under paragraph (c)(8)(iii)(A) of this section, and debt securities held under this paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E); and
(
2
) The aggregate value of the loans, cash and cash equivalents, and debt securities for purposes of this paragraph is calculated at par value at the most recent time any such debt security is acquired, except that the issuing entity may instead determine the value of any such loan, cash equivalent, or debt security based on its fair market value if:
(
i
) The issuing entity is required to use the fair market value of such assets for purposes of calculating compliance with concentration limitations or other similar calculations under its transaction agreements, and
(
ii
) The issuing entity's valuation methodology values similarly situated assets consistently.
(ii)
Impermissible assets.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(8), except as permitted under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section, the assets or holdings of the issuing entity shall not include any of the following:
(A) A security, including an asset-backed security, or an interest in an equity or debt security other than as permitted in paragraphs (c)(8)(iii), (iv), or (v) of this section;
(B) A derivative, other than a derivative that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section; or
(C) A commodity forward contract.
(iii)
Permitted securities.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(8)(ii)(A) of this section, the issuing entity may hold securities, other than debt securities permitted under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section, if those securities are:
(A) Cash equivalents—which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the securitization's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the asset-backed securities—for purposes of the rights and assets in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section; or
(B) Securities received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to the loans supporting the asset-backed securities.
(iv)
Derivatives.
The holdings of derivatives by the issuing entity shall be limited to interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that satisfy all of the following conditions:
(A) The written terms of the derivatives directly relate to the loans, the asset-backed securities, the contractual rights or other assets described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section, or the debt securities described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section; and
(B) The derivatives reduce the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks related to the loans, the asset-backed securities, the contractual rights or other assets described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section, or the debt securities described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section.
(v)
Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates.
The assets or holdings of the issuing entity may include collateral certificates and special units of beneficial interest issued by a special purpose vehicle, provided that:
(A) The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate meets the requirements in this paragraph (c)(8);
(B) The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is used for the sole purpose of transferring to the issuing entity for the loan securitization the economic risks and benefits of the assets that are permissible for loan securitizations under this paragraph (c)(8) and does not directly or indirectly transfer any interest in any other economic or financial exposure;
(C) The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is created solely to satisfy legal requirements or otherwise facilitate the structuring of the loan securitization; and
(D) The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate and the issuing entity are established under the direction of the same entity that initiated the loan securitization.
(9)
Qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduits.
(i) An issuing entity for asset-backed commercial paper that satisfies all of the following requirements:
(A) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit holds only:
(
1
) Loans and other assets permissible for a loan securitization under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section; and
(
2
) Asset-backed securities supported solely by assets that are permissible for loan securitizations under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section and acquired by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit as part of an initial issuance either directly from the issuing entity of the asset-backed securities or directly from an underwriter in the distribution of the asset-backed securities;
(B) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit issues only asset-backed securities, comprised of a residual interest and securities with a legal maturity of 397 days or less; and
(C) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment to provide full and unconditional liquidity coverage with respect to all of the outstanding asset-backed securities issued by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit (other than any residual interest) in the event that funds are required to redeem maturing asset-backed securities.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(9), a regulated liquidity provider means:
(A) A depository institution, as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c));
(B) A bank holding company, as defined in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(C) A savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10a of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the holding company's activities are permissible for a financial holding company under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(D) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor, as defined in § 211.21(q) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(q)), has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord for the Basel Committee on banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof; or
(E) The United States or a foreign sovereign.
(10)
Qualifying covered bonds
—(i)
Scope.
An entity owning or holding a dynamic or fixed pool of loans or other assets as provided in paragraph (c)(8) of this section for the benefit of the holders of covered bonds, provided that the assets in the pool are composed solely of assets that meet the conditions in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section.
(ii)
Covered bond.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(10), a covered bond means:
(A) A debt obligation issued by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking organization, the payment obligations of which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section; or
(B) A debt obligation of an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, provided that the payment obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking organization and the entity is a wholly-owned subsidiary, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of such foreign banking organization.
(11)
SBICs and public welfare investment funds.
An issuer:
(i) That is a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), or that has received from the Small Business Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a license as a small business investment company, which notice or license has not been revoked, or that has voluntarily surrendered its license to operate as a small business investment company in accordance with 13 CFR 107.1900 and does not make any new investments (other than investments in cash equivalents, which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to the issuer's assets) after such voluntary surrender;
(ii) The business of which is to make investments that are:
(A) Designed primarily to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24), including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families (such as providing housing, services, or jobs) and including investments that qualify for consideration under the regulations implementing the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.
); or
(B) Qualified rehabilitation expenditures with respect to a qualified rehabilitated building or certified historic structure, as such terms are defined in
section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or a similar State historic tax credit program;
(iii) That has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a rural business investment company, as described in 15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(8)(A) or (B), or that has terminated its participation as a rural business investment company in accordance with 7 CFR 4290.1900 and does not make any new investments (other than investments in cash equivalents, which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to the issuer's assets) after such termination; or
(iv) That is a qualified opportunity fund, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1400Z-2(d).
(12)
Registered investment companies and excluded entities.
An issuer:
(i) That is registered as an investment company under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a registered investment company as described in § 255.20(e)(3) of subpart D and that complies with the requirements of section 18 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-18);
(ii) That may rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act; or
(iii) That has elected to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54(a) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-53) and has not withdrawn its election, or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a business development company as described in § 255.20(e)(3) of subpart D and that complies with the requirements of section 61 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-60).
(13)
Issuers in conjunction with the FDIC's receivership or conservatorship operations.
An issuer that is an entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for the purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired in the FDIC's capacity as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(14)
Other excluded issuers.
(i) Any issuer that the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine the exclusion of which is consistent with the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act.
(ii) A determination made under paragraph (c)(14)(i) of this section will be promptly made public.
(15)
Credit funds.
Subject to paragraphs (c)(15)(iii), (iv), and (v) of this section, an issuer that satisfies the asset and activity requirements of paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Asset requirements.
The issuer's assets must be composed solely of:
(A) Loans as defined in § 255.2(t);
(B) Debt instruments, subject to paragraph (c)(15)(iv) of this section;
(C) Rights and other assets that are related or incidental to acquiring, holding, servicing, or selling such loans or debt instruments, provided that:
(
1
) Each right or asset held under this paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) that is a security is either:
(
i
) A cash equivalent (which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the debt instruments);
(
ii
) A security received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to such loans or debt instruments; or
(
iii
) An equity security (or right to acquire an equity security) received on customary terms in connection with such loans or debt instruments; and
(
2
) Rights or other assets held under this paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section may not include commodity forward contracts or any derivative; and
(D) Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives, if:
(
1
) The written terms of the derivative directly relate to the loans, debt instruments, or other rights or assets described in paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section; and
(
2
) The derivative reduces the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks
related to the loans, debt instruments, or other rights or assets described in paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Activity requirements.
To be eligible for the exclusion of paragraph (c)(15) of this section, an issuer must:
(A) Not engage in any activity that would constitute proprietary trading under § 255.3(b)(l)(i), as if the issuer were a banking entity; and
(B) Not issue asset-backed securities.
(iii)
Requirements for a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor.
A banking entity that acts as a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section may not rely on this exclusion unless the banking entity:
(A) Provides in writing to any prospective and actual investor in the issuer the disclosures required under § 255.11(a)(8) of this subpart, as if the issuer were a covered fund;
(B) Ensures that the activities of the issuer are consistent with safety and soundness standards that are substantially similar to those that would apply if the banking entity engaged in the activities directly; and
(C) Complies with the limitations imposed in § 255.14, as if the issuer were a covered fund, except the banking entity may acquire and retain any ownership interest in the issuer.
(iv)
Additional Banking Entity Requirements.
A banking entity may not rely on this exclusion with respect to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section unless:
(A) The banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the issuer or of any entity to which such issuer extends credit or in which such issuer invests; and
(B) Any assets the issuer holds pursuant to paragraphs (c)(15)(i)(B) or (i)(C)(
1
)(
iii
) of this section would be permissible for the banking entity to acquire and hold directly under applicable federal banking laws and regulations.
(v)
Investment and Relationship Limits.
A banking entity's investment in, and relationship with, the issuer must:
(A) Comply with the limitations imposed in § 255.15, as if the issuer were a covered fund; and
(B) Be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, applicable banking laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(16)
Qualifying venture capital funds.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (c)(16)(ii) through (iv) of this section, an issuer that:
(A) Is a venture capital fund as defined in 17 CFR 275.203(l)-1; and
(B) Does not engage in any activity that would constitute proprietary trading under § 255.3(b)(1)(i), as if the issuer were a banking entity.
(ii) A banking entity that acts as a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraph (c)(16)(i) of this section may not rely on this exclusion unless the banking entity:
(A) Provides in writing to any prospective and actual investor in the issuer the disclosures required under § 255.11(a)(8), as if the issuer were a covered fund;
(B) Ensures that the activities of the issuer are consistent with safety and soundness standards that are substantially similar to those that would apply if the banking entity engaged in the activities directly; and
(C) Complies with the restrictions in § 255.14 as if the issuer were a covered fund (except the banking entity may acquire and retain any ownership interest in the issuer).
(iii) The banking entity must not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the issuer.
(iv) A banking entity's ownership interest in or relationship with the issuer must:
(A) Comply with the limitations imposed in § 255.15, as if the issuer were a covered fund; and
(B) Be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, applicable banking laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(17)
Family wealth management vehicles.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(17)(ii) of this section, any entity that is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises
money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities, and:
(A) If the entity is a trust, the grantor(s) of the entity are all family customers; and
(B) If the entity is not a trust:
(
1
) A majority of the voting interests in the entity are owned (directly or indirectly) by family customers;
(
2
) A majority of the interests in the entity are owned (directly or indirectly) by family customers;
(
3
) The entity is owned only by family customers and up to 5 closely related persons of the family customers; and
(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(17)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, up to an aggregate 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be acquired or retained by one or more entities that are not family customers or closely related persons if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by such parties for the purpose of and to the extent necessary for establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.
(ii) A banking entity may rely on the exclusion in paragraph (c)(17)(i) of this section with respect to an entity provided that the banking entity (or an affiliate):
(A) Provides bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services to the entity;
(B) Does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of such entity;
(C) Complies with the disclosure obligations under § 255.11(a)(8), as if such entity were a covered fund, provided that the content may be modified to prevent the disclosure from being misleading and the manner of disclosure may be modified to accommodate the specific circumstances of the entity;
(D) Does not acquire or retain, as principal, an ownership interest in the entity, other than as described in paragraph (c)(17)(i)(C) of this section;
(E) Complies with the requirements of §§ 255.14(b) and 255.15, as if such entity were a covered fund; and
(F) Except for riskless principal transactions as defined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, complies with the requirements of 12 CFR 223.15(a), as if such banking entity and its affiliates were a member bank and the entity were an affiliate thereof.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(17) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(A)
Closely related person
means a natural person (including the estate and estate planning vehicles of such person) who has longstanding business or personal relationships with any family customer.
(B)
Family customer
means:
(
1
) A family client, as defined in Rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(4) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(4)); or
(
2
) Any natural person who is a father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law of a family client, or a spouse or a spousal equivalent of any of the foregoing.
(18)
Customer facilitation vehicles.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(18)(ii) of this section, an issuer that is formed by or at the request of a customer of the banking entity for the purpose of providing such customer (which may include one or more affiliates of such customer) with exposure to a transaction, investment strategy, or other service provided by the banking entity.
(ii) A banking entity may rely on the exclusion in paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section with respect to an issuer provided that:
(A) All of the ownership interests of the issuer are owned by the customer (which may include one or more of its affiliates) for whom the issuer was created;
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(18)(ii)(A) of this section, up to an aggregate 0.5 percent of the issuer's outstanding ownership interests may be acquired or retained by one or more entities that are not customers if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by such parties for the purpose of and to the extent necessary for establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns; and
(C) The banking entity and its affiliates:
(
1
) Maintain documentation outlining how the banking entity intends to facilitate the customer's exposure to such transaction, investment strategy, or service;
(
2
) Do not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of such issuer;
(
3
) Comply with the disclosure obligations under § 255.11(a)(8), as if such issuer were a covered fund, provided that the content may be modified to prevent the disclosure from being misleading and the manner of disclosure may be modified to accommodate the specific circumstances of the issuer;
(
4
) Do not acquire or retain, as principal, an ownership interest in the issuer, other than as described in paragraph (c)(18)(ii)(B) of this section;
(
5
) Comply with the requirements of §§ 255.14(b) and 255.15, as if such issuer were a covered fund; and
(
6
) Except for riskless principal transactions as defined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, comply with the requirements of 12 CFR 223.15(a), as if such banking entity and its affiliates were a member bank and the issuer were an affiliate thereof.
(d)
Definition of other terms related to covered funds.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Applicable accounting standards
means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or such other accounting standards applicable to a banking entity that the SEC determines are appropriate and that the banking entity uses in the ordinary course of its business in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
(2)
Asset-backed security
has the meaning specified in Section 3(a)(79) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79).
(3)
Director
has the same meaning as provided in section 215.2(d)(1) of the Board's Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(d)(1)).
(4)
Issuer
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(22) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(22)).
(5)
Issuing entity
means with respect to asset-backed securities the special purpose vehicle that owns or holds the pool assets underlying asset-backed securities and in whose name the asset-backed securities supported or serviced by the pool assets are issued.
(6)
Ownership interest.
(i)
Ownership interest
means any equity, partnership, or other similar interest. An “other similar interest” means an interest that:
(A) Has the right to participate in the selection or removal of a general partner, managing member, member of the board of directors or trustees, investment manager, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor of the covered fund, excluding:
(
1
) The rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event; and
(
2
) The right to participate in the removal of an investment manager for “cause” or participate in the selection of a replacement manager upon an investment manager's resignation or removal. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A)(
2
), “cause” for removal of an investment manager means one or more of the following events:
(i)
The bankruptcy, insolvency, conservatorship or receivership of the investment manager;
(ii)
The breach by the investment manager of any material provision of the covered fund's transaction agreements applicable to the investment manager;
(iii)
The breach by the investment manager of material representations or warranties;
(iv)
The occurrence of an act that constitutes fraud or criminal activity in the performance of the investment manager's obligations under the covered fund's transaction agreements;
(v)
The indictment of the investment manager for a criminal offense, or the indictment of any officer, member, partner or other principal of the investment manager for a criminal offense materially related to his or her investment management activities;
(vi)
A change in control with respect to the investment manager;
(vii)
The loss, separation or incapacitation of an individual critical to the operation of the investment manager or primarily responsible for the management of the covered fund's assets; or
(viii)
Other similar events that constitute “cause” for removal of an investment manager, provided that such events are not solely related to the performance of the covered fund or the investment manager's exercise of investment discretion under the covered fund's transaction agreements;
(B) Has the right under the terms of the interest to receive a share of the income, gains or profits of the covered fund;
(C) Has the right to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all other interests have been redeemed and/or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event);
(D) Has the right to receive all or a portion of excess spread (the positive difference, if any, between the aggregate interest payments received from the underlying assets of the covered fund and the aggregate interest paid to the holders of other outstanding interests);
(E) Provides under the terms of the interest that the amounts payable by the covered fund with respect to the interest could be reduced based on losses arising from the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest due and payable on the interest;
(F) Receives income on a pass-through basis from the covered fund, or has a rate of return that is determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets of the covered fund; or
(G) Any synthetic right to have, receive, or be allocated any of the rights in paragraphs (d)(6)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.
(ii) Ownership interest does not include:
(A) Restricted profit interest, which is an interest held by an entity (or an employee or former employee thereof) in a covered fund for which the entity (or employee thereof) serves as investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or other service provider, so long as:
(
1
) The sole purpose and effect of the interest is to allow the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to share in the profits of the covered fund as performance compensation for the investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services provided to the covered fund by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof), provided that the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) may be obligated under the terms of such interest to return profits previously received;
(
2
) All such profit, once allocated, is distributed to the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) promptly after being earned or, if not so distributed, is retained by the covered fund for the sole purpose of establishing a reserve amount to satisfy contractual obligations with respect to subsequent losses of the covered fund and such undistributed profit of the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) does not share in the subsequent investment gains of the covered fund;
(
3
) Any amounts invested in the covered fund, including any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining the restricted profit interest, are within the limits of § 255.12 of this subpart; and
(
4
) The interest is not transferable by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) except to an affiliate thereof (or an employee of the banking entity or affiliate), to immediate family members, or through the intestacy, of the employee or former employee, or in connection with a sale of the business that gave rise to the restricted profit interest by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to an unaffiliated party that provides investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the fund.
(B) Any senior loan or senior debt interest that has the following characteristics:
(
1
) Under the terms of the interest the holders of such interest do not have the right to receive a share of the income, gains, or profits of the covered fund, but are entitled to receive only:
(
i
) Interest at a stated interest rate, as well as commitment fees or other fees, which are not determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets of the covered fund; and
(
ii
) Repayment of a fixed principal amount, on or before a maturity date, in a contractually-determined manner (which may include prepayment premiums intended solely to reflect, and compensate holders of the interest for, forgone income resulting from an early prepayment);
(
2
) The entitlement to payments under the terms of the interest are absolute and could not be reduced based on losses arising from the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest due and payable on the interest; and
(
3
) The holders of the interest are not entitled to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all other interests have been redeemed or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event).
(7)
Prime brokerage transaction
means any transaction that would be a covered transaction, as defined in section 23A(b)(7) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), that is provided in connection with custody, clearance and settlement, securities borrowing or lending services, trade execution, financing, or data, operational, and administrative support.
(8)
Resident of the United States
means a person that is a “U.S. person” as defined in rule 902(k) of the SEC's Regulation S (17 CFR 230.902(k)).
(9)
Sponsor
means, with respect to a covered fund:
(i) To serve as a general partner, managing member, or trustee of a covered fund, or to serve as a commodity pool operator with respect to a covered fund as defined in (b)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) In any manner to select or to control (or to have employees, officers, or directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of a covered fund; or
(iii) To share with a covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, the same name or a variation of the same name, except as permitted under § 255.11(a)(6).
(10)
Trustee.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (d)(9) of this section and § 255.11 of subpart C, a trustee does not include:
(A) A trustee that does not exercise investment discretion with respect to a covered fund, including a trustee that is subject to the direction of an unaffiliated named fiduciary who is not a trustee pursuant to section 403(a)(1) of the Employee's Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1103(a)(1)); or
(B) A trustee that is subject to fiduciary standards imposed under foreign law that are substantially equivalent to those described in paragraph (d)(10)(i)(A) of this section;
(ii) Any entity that directs a person described in paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, or that possesses authority and discretion to manage and control the investment decisions of a covered fund for which such person serves as trustee, shall be considered to be a trustee of such covered fund.
(11)
Riskless principal transaction.
Riskless principal transaction means a transaction in which a banking entity, after receiving an order from a customer to buy (or sell) a security, purchases (or sells) the security in the secondary market for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35022, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 62244, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46523, July 31, 2020]
§ 255.11
Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect to a covered fund.
(a)
Organizing and offering a covered fund in general.
Notwithstanding § 255.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund in connection with, directly or indirectly, organizing and offering a covered fund, including serving as a general partner, managing member, trustee, or commodity pool operator of the covered fund and in any manner selecting or controlling (or having employees, officers, directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of the covered
fund, including any necessary expenses for the foregoing, only if:
(1) The banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) provides
bona fide
trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services;
(2) The covered fund is organized and offered only in connection with the provision of
bona fide
trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services and only to persons that are customers of such services of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), pursuant to a written plan or similar documentation outlining how the banking entity or such affiliate intends to provide advisory or similar services to its customers through organizing and offering such fund;
(3) The banking entity and its affiliates do not acquire or retain an ownership interest in the covered fund except as permitted under § 255.12 of this subpart;
(4) The banking entity and its affiliates comply with the requirements of § 255.14 of this subpart;
(5) The banking entity and its affiliates do not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests;
(6) The covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes:
(i) Does not share the same name or a variation of the same name with the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) except that a covered fund may share the same name or a variation of the same name with a banking entity that is an investment adviser to the covered fund if:
(A) The investment adviser is not an insured depository institution, a company that controls an insured depository institution, or a company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(B) The investment adviser does not share the same name or a variation of the same name as an insured depository institution, a company that controls an insured depository institution, or a company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(ii) Does not use the word “bank” in its name;
(7) No director or employee of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) takes or retains an ownership interest in the covered fund, except for any director or employee of the banking entity or such affiliate who is directly engaged in providing investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund at the time the director or employee takes the ownership interest; and
(8) The banking entity:
(i) Clearly and conspicuously discloses, in writing, to any prospective and actual investor in the covered fund (such as through disclosure in the covered fund's offering documents):
(A) That “any losses in [such covered fund] will be borne solely by investors in [the covered fund] and not by [the banking entity] or its affiliates; therefore, [the banking entity's] losses in [such covered fund] will be limited to losses attributable to the ownership interests in the covered fund held by [the banking entity] and any affiliate in its capacity as investor in the [covered fund] or as beneficiary of a restricted profit interest held by [the banking entity] or any affiliate”;
(B) That such investor should read the fund offering documents before investing in the covered fund;
(C) That the “ownership interests in the covered fund are not insured by the FDIC, and are not deposits, obligations of, or endorsed or guaranteed in any way, by any banking entity” (unless that happens to be the case); and
(D) The role of the banking entity and its affiliates and employees in sponsoring or providing any services to the covered fund; and
(ii) Complies with any additional rules of the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, or the CFTC, as provided in section 13(b)(2) of the BHC Act, designed to ensure that losses in such covered fund are borne solely by investors in the covered fund and not by the covered banking entity and its affiliates.
(b)
Organizing and offering an issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(1) Notwithstanding § 255.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities in connection with, directly or indirectly, organizing and offering that issuing entity, so long as the banking entity and its affiliates comply with all of the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) through (8) of this section.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (b), organizing and offering a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities means acting as the securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11(a)(3)) of the issuing entity, or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in the issuing entity as required by section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C.78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.
(c)
Underwriting and market making in ownership interests of a covered fund.
The prohibition contained in § 255.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to a banking entity's underwriting activities or market making-related activities involving a covered fund so long as:
(1) Those activities are conducted in accordance with the requirements of § 255.4(a) or § 255.4(b) of subpart B, respectively; and
(2) With respect to any banking entity (or any affiliate thereof) that: Acts as a sponsor, investment adviser or commodity trading advisor to a particular covered fund or otherwise acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section; or acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund and is either a securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11(a)(3)), or is acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in such covered fund in compliance with section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C.78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder each as permitted by paragraph (b) of this section, then in each such case any ownership interests acquired or retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in connection with underwriting and market making related activities for that particular covered fund are included in the calculation of ownership interests permitted to be held by the banking entity and its affiliates under the limitations of § 255.12(a)(2)(ii); § 255.12(a)(2)(iii), and § 255.12(d) of this subpart.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35022, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 62244, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 255.12
Permitted investment in a covered fund.
(a)
Authority and limitations on permitted investments in covered funds.
(1) Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in § 255.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity may acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that the banking entity or an affiliate thereof organizes and offers pursuant to § 255.11, for the purposes of:
(i)
Establishment.
Establishing the fund and providing the fund with sufficient initial equity for investment to permit the fund to attract unaffiliated investors, subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section; or
(ii)
De minimis investment.
Making and retaining an investment in the covered fund subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(2)
Investment limits
—(i)
Seeding period.
With respect to an investment in any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the banking entity and its affiliates:
(A) Must actively seek unaffiliated investors to reduce, through redemption, sale, dilution, or other methods, the aggregate amount of all ownership interests of the banking entity in the covered fund to the amount permitted in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section; and
(B) Must, no later than 1 year after the date of establishment of the fund (or such longer period as may be provided by the Board pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section), conform its ownership interest in the covered fund to the limits in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii)
Per-fund limits.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, an investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may not exceed 3 percent of the total number or value of the outstanding ownership interests of the fund.
(B) An investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities may not exceed 3 percent of the total fair market value of the ownership interests of the fund measured in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless a greater percentage is retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in compliance with the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder, in which case the investment by the banking entity and its affiliates in the covered fund may not exceed the amount, number, or value of ownership interests of the fund required under section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.
(iii)
Aggregate limit.
The aggregate value of all ownership interests of the banking entity and its affiliates in all covered funds acquired or retained under this section may not exceed 3 percent of the tier 1 capital of the banking entity, as provided under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall be calculated as of the last day of each calendar quarter.
(iv)
Date of establishment.
For purposes of this section, the date of establishment of a covered fund shall be:
(A)
In general.
The date on which the investment adviser or similar entity to the covered fund begins making investments pursuant to the written investment strategy for the fund;
(B)
Issuing entities of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, the date on which the assets are initially transferred into the issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(b)
Rules of construction
—(1)
Attribution of ownership interests to a covered banking entity.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the amount and value of a banking entity's permitted investment in any single covered fund shall include any ownership interest held under § 255.12 directly by the banking entity, including any affiliate of the banking entity.
(ii)
Treatment of registered investment companies, SEC-regulated business development companies, and foreign public funds.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a registered investment company, SEC-regulated business development companies, or foreign public fund as described in § 255.10(c)(1) will not be considered to be an affiliate of the banking entity so long as:
(A) The banking entity, together with its affiliates, does not own, control, or hold with the power to vote 25 percent or more of the voting shares of the company or fund; and
(B) The banking entity, or an affiliate of the banking entity, provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, administrative, and other services to the company or fund in compliance with the limitations under applicable regulation, order, or other authority.
(iii)
Covered funds.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a covered fund will not be considered to be an affiliate of a banking entity so long as the covered fund is held in compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(iv)
Treatment of employee and director investments financed by the banking entity.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires an ownership interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the ownership interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)
Calculation of permitted ownership interests in a single covered fund.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) or (4), for purposes of determining whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests under paragraphs
(a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section:
(i) The aggregate number of the outstanding ownership interests held by the banking entity shall be the total number of ownership interests held under this section by the banking entity in a covered fund divided by the total number of ownership interests held by all entities in that covered fund, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (both measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment);
(ii) The aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests held by the banking entity shall be the aggregate fair market value of all investments in and capital contributions made to the covered fund by the banking entity, divided by the value of all investments in and capital contributions made to that covered fund by all entities, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (all measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment). If fair market value cannot be determined, then the value shall be the historical cost basis of all investments in and contributions made by the banking entity to the covered fund;
(iii) For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, once a valuation methodology is chosen, the banking entity must calculate the value of its investment and the investments of all others in the covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards.
(3)
Issuing entities of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an ownership interest in an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, for purposes of determining whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section:
(i) For securitizations subject to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), the calculations shall be made as of the date and according to the valuation methodology applicable pursuant to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder; or
(ii) For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not apply), the calculations shall be made as of the date of establishment as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(B) of this section or such earlier date on which the transferred assets have been valued for purposes of transfer to the covered fund, and thereafter only upon the date on which additional securities of the issuing entity of asset-backed securities are priced for purposes of the sales of ownership interests to unaffiliated investors.
(iii) For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not apply), the aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests in the covered fund shall be the fair market value of the assets transferred to the issuing entity of the securitization and any other assets otherwise held by the issuing entity at such time, determined in a manner that is consistent with its determination of the fair market value of those assets for financial statement purposes.
(iv) For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair market value of the ownership interests must be the same for both the ownership interests held by a banking entity and the ownership interests held by all others in the covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards.
(4)
Multi-tier fund investments
—(i)
Master-feeder fund investments.
If the principal investment strategy of a covered fund (the “feeder fund”) is to invest substantially all of its assets in another single covered fund (the “master fund”), then for purposes of the investment limitations in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the banking entity's permitted investment in such funds shall be measured only by reference to the value of the master fund. The banking entity's permitted investment in the master fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in the master fund, as well as the banking entity's pro-rata
share of any ownership interest in the master fund that is held through the feeder fund; and
(ii)
Fund-of-funds investments.
If a banking entity organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 255.11 for the purpose of investing in other covered funds (a “fund of funds”) and that fund of funds itself invests in another covered fund that the banking entity is permitted to own, then the banking entity's permitted investment in that other fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in that other fund, as well as the banking entity's pro-rata share of any ownership interest in the fund that is held through the fund of funds. The investment of the banking entity may not represent more than 3 percent of the amount or value of any single covered fund.
(5)
Parallel Investments and Co-Investments.
(i) A banking entity shall not be required to include in the calculation of the investment limits under paragraph (a)(2) of this section any investment the banking entity makes alongside a covered fund as long as the investment is made in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(ii) A banking entity shall not be restricted under this section in the amount of any investment the banking entity makes alongside a covered fund as long as the investment is made in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(c)
Aggregate permitted investments in all covered funds.
(1)(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the aggregate value of all ownership interests held by a banking entity shall be the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in covered funds (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 255.10(d)(6)(ii)), on a historical cost basis;
(ii) Treatment of employee and director restricted profit interests financed by the banking entity. For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires a restricted profit interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the restricted profit interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)
Calculation of tier 1 capital.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section:
(i)
Entities that are required to hold and report tier 1 capital.
If a banking entity is required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital of the banking entity as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter, as reported to its primary financial regulatory agency; and
(ii) If a banking entity is not required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be determined to be equal to:
(A) In the case of a banking entity that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital, be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by such controlling depository institution in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) In the case of a banking entity that is not controlled, directly or indirectly, by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital:
(
1
)
Bank holding company subsidiaries.
If the banking entity is a subsidiary of a bank holding company or company that is treated as a bank holding company, be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by the top-tier affiliate of such covered banking entity that calculates and reports tier 1 capital in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section; and
(
2
)
Other holding companies and any subsidiary or affiliate thereof.
If the banking entity is not a subsidiary of a bank holding company or a company that is treated as a bank holding company, be equal to the total amount of shareholders' equity of the top-tier affiliate within such organization as of
the last day of the most recent calendar quarter that has ended, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(iii)
Treatment of foreign banking entities
—(A)
Foreign banking entities.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, with respect to a banking entity that is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, the tier 1 capital of the banking entity shall be the consolidated tier 1 capital of the entity as calculated under applicable home country standards.
(B)
U.S. affiliates of foreign banking entities.
With respect to a banking entity that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and is controlled by a foreign banking entity identified under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be as calculated under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(d)
Capital treatment for a permitted investment in a covered fund.
For purposes of calculating compliance with the applicable regulatory capital requirements, a banking entity shall deduct from the banking entity's tier 1 capital (as determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section) the greater of:
(1)(i) The sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 255.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C of this part), on a historical cost basis, plus any earnings received; and
(ii) The fair market value of the banking entity's ownership interests in the covered fund as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) or (b)(3) of this section (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 255.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C of this part), if the banking entity accounts for the profits (or losses) of the fund investment in its financial statements.
(2) Treatment of employee and director restricted profit interests financed by the banking entity. For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires a restricted profit interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the restricted profit interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(e)
Extension of time to divest an ownership interest.
(1)
Extension period.
Upon application by a banking entity, the Board may extend the period under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for up to 2 additional years if the Board finds that an extension would be consistent with safety and soundness and not detrimental to the public interest.
(2)
Application requirements.
An application for extension must:
(i) Be submitted to the Board at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the applicable time period;
(ii) Provide the reasons for application, including information that addresses the factors in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and
(iii) Explain the banking entity's plan for reducing the permitted investment in a covered fund through redemption, sale, dilution or other methods as required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3)
Factors governing the Board determinations.
In reviewing any application under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Board may consider all the facts and circumstances related to the permitted investment in a covered fund, including:
(i) Whether the investment would result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(ii) The contractual terms governing the banking entity's interest in the covered fund;
(iii) The date on which the covered fund is expected to have attracted sufficient investments from investors unaffiliated with the banking entity to enable the banking entity to comply
with the limitations in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(iv) The total exposure of the covered banking entity to the investment and the risks that disposing of, or maintaining, the investment in the covered fund may pose to the banking entity and the financial stability of the United States;
(v) The cost to the banking entity of divesting or disposing of the investment within the applicable period;
(vi) Whether the investment or the divestiture or conformance of the investment would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and unaffiliated parties, including clients, customers, or counterparties to which it owes a duty;
(vii) The banking entity's prior efforts to reduce through redemption, sale, dilution, or other methods its ownership interests in the covered fund, including activities related to the marketing of interests in such covered fund;
(viii) Market conditions; and
(ix) Any other factor that the Board believes appropriate.
(4)
Authority to impose restrictions on activities or investment during any extension period.
The Board may impose such conditions on any extension approved under paragraph (e)(1) of this section as the Board determines are necessary or appropriate to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity or the financial stability of the United States, address material conflicts of interest or other unsound banking practices, or otherwise further the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part.
(5)
Consultation.
In the case of a banking entity that is primarily regulated by another Federal banking agency, the SEC, or the CFTC, the Board will consult with such agency prior to acting on an application by the banking entity for an extension under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62244, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46527, July 31, 2020]
§ 255.13
Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
(a)
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 255.10(a) of this subpart does not apply with respect to an ownership interest in a covered fund acquired or retained by a banking entity that is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks to the banking entity in connection with:
(i) A compensation arrangement with an employee of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that directly provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory or other services to the covered fund; or
(ii) A position taken by the banking entity when acting as intermediary on behalf of a customer that is not itself a banking entity to facilitate the exposure by the customer to the profits and losses of the covered fund.
(2) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity are permitted under this paragraph (a) only if:
(i) The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an internal compliance program in accordance with subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this section, including:
(A) Reasonably designed written policies and procedures; and
(B) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(ii) The acquisition or retention of the ownership interest:
(A) Is made in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and internal controls required under this section;
(B) At the inception of the hedge, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks arising:
(
1
) Out of a transaction conducted solely to accommodate a specific customer request with respect to the covered fund; or
(
2
) In connection with the compensation arrangement with the employee that directly provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund;
(C) Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or additional risk that is not itself
hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this section; and
(D) Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the banking entity.
(iii) With respect to risk-mitigating hedging activity conducted pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the compensation arrangement relates solely to the covered fund in which the banking entity or any affiliate has acquired an ownership interest pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) and such compensation arrangement provides that any losses incurred by the banking entity on such ownership interest will be offset by corresponding decreases in amounts payable under such compensation arrangement.
(b)
Certain permitted covered fund activities and investments outside of the United States.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 255.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to the acquisition or retention of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund by a banking entity only if:
(i) The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States;
(ii) The activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act;
(iii) No ownership interest in the covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States; and
(iv) The activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States.
(2) An activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i) The activity or investment is conducted in accordance with the requirements of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of section 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following requirements:
(
1
) Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(
2
) Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States; or
(
3
) Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States.
(3) An ownership interest in a covered fund is not offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section only if it is not sold and has not been sold pursuant to an offering that targets residents of the United States in which the banking entity or any affiliate of the banking entity participates. If the banking entity or an affiliate sponsors or serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor to a covered fund, then the banking entity or affiliate will be deemed for purposes of this paragraph (b)(3) to participate in any offer or sale by the covered fund of ownership interests in the covered fund.
(4) An activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity acting as sponsor, or engaging as principal in the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in the covered fund, is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision to acquire or retain the ownership interest or act as sponsor to the covered fund is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iii) The investment or sponsorship, including any transaction arising from risk-mitigating hedging related to an ownership interest, is not accounted for as principal directly or indirectly on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(5) For purposes of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank, or any subsidiary thereof, is located in the United States; however, a foreign bank of which that branch, agency, or subsidiary is a part is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operation of the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c) Permitted covered fund interests and activities by a regulated insurance company. The prohibition contained in § 255.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to the acquisition or retention by an insurance company, or an affiliate thereof, of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund only if:
(1) The insurance company or its affiliate acquires and retains the ownership interest solely for the general account of the insurance company or for one or more separate accounts established by the insurance company;
(2) The acquisition and retention of the ownership interest is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws and regulations of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law or regulation described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(d)
Permitted covered fund activities and investments of qualifying foreign excluded funds.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 255.10(a) does not apply to a qualifying foreign excluded fund.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (d), a qualifying foreign excluded fund means a banking entity that:
(i) Is organized or established outside the United States, and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(ii)(A) Would be a covered fund if the entity were organized or established in the United States, or
(B) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in financial instruments for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in financial instruments;
(iii) Would not otherwise be a banking entity except by virtue of the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, sponsorship of, or relationship with the entity, by another banking entity that meets the following:
(A) The banking entity is not organized, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized, under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(B) The banking entity's acquisition of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of the fund by the foreign banking entity meets the requirements for permitted covered fund activities and investments solely outside the United States, as provided in § 255.13(b);
(iv) Is established and operated as part of a bona fide asset management business; and
(v) Is not operated in a manner that enables the banking entity that sponsors or controls the qualifying foreign excluded fund, or any of its affiliates, to evade the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62244, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46528, July 31, 2020]
§ 255.14
Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
(a)
Relationships with a covered fund.
(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 255.11 of this subpart, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § 255.11(b) of this subpart, and no affiliate of such entity, may enter into a transaction with the covered fund, or with any other covered fund that is controlled by such covered fund, that would be a covered transaction as defined in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), as if such banking entity and the affiliate thereof were a member bank and the covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a banking entity may:
(i) Acquire and retain any ownership interest in a covered fund in accordance with the requirements of §§ 255.11, 255.12, or 255.13;
(ii) Enter into any prime brokerage transaction with any covered fund in which a covered fund managed, sponsored, or advised by such banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) has taken an ownership interest, if:
(A) The banking entity is in compliance with each of the limitations set forth in § 255.11 of this subpart with respect to a covered fund organized and offered by such banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(B) The chief executive officer (or equivalent officer) of the banking entity certifies in writing annually no later than March 31 to the SEC (with a duty to update the certification if the information in the certification materially changes) that the banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests; and
(C) The Board has not determined that such transaction is inconsistent with the safe and sound operation and condition of the banking entity; and
(iii) Enter into a transaction with a covered fund that would be an exempt covered transaction under 12 U.S.C. 371c(d) or § 223.42 of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42) subject to the limitations specified under 12 U.S.C. 371c(d) or § 223.42 of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42), as applicable,
(iv) Enter into a riskless principal transaction with a covered fund; and
(v) Extend credit to or purchase assets from a covered fund, provided:
(A) Each extension of credit or purchase of assets is in the ordinary course of business in connection with payment transactions; settlement services; or futures, derivatives, and securities clearing;
(B) Each extension of credit is repaid, sold, or terminated by the end of five business days; and
(C) The banking entity making each extension of credit meets the requirements of § 223.42(l)(1)(i) and (ii) of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42(l)(1)(i) and(ii)), as if the extension of credit was an intraday extension of credit, regardless of the duration of the extension of credit.
(3) Any transaction or activity permitted under paragraphs (a)(2)(iii), (iv) or (v) must comply with the limitations in § 255.15.
(b)
Restrictions on transactions with covered funds.
A banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, or that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 255.11 of this subpart, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § 255.11(b) of this subpart, shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1), as if such banking entity were a member bank and such covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(c)
Restrictions on other permitted transactions.
Any transaction permitted under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1) as if the counterparty were an affiliate of the banking entity under section 23B.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62245, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46528, Oct. 1, 2020]
§ 255.15
Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities.
(a) No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed permissible under §§ 255.11 through 255.13 of this subpart if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would:
(1) Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2) Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3) Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Definition of material conflict of interest.
(1) For purposes of this section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity's interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)
Timely and effective disclosure.
(A) Has made clear, timely, and effective disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)
Information barriers.
Has established, maintained, and enforced information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity's business, to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the banking entity's establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)
Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
High-risk asset
means an asset or group of related assets that would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2)
High-risk trading strategy
means a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
§ 255.16
Ownership of interests in and sponsorship of issuers of certain collateralized debt obligations backed by trust-preferred securities.
(a) The prohibition contained in § 255.10(a)(1) does not apply to the ownership by a banking entity of an interest in, or sponsorship of, any issuer if:
(1) The issuer was established, and the interest was issued, before May 19, 2010;
(2) The banking entity reasonably believes that the offering proceeds received by the issuer were invested primarily in Qualifying TruPS Collateral; and
(3) The banking entity acquired such interest on or before December 10, 2013 (or acquired such interest in connection with a merger with or acquisition
of a banking entity that acquired the interest on or before December 10, 2013).
(b) For purposes of this § 255.16,
Qualifying TruPS Collateral
shall mean any trust preferred security or subordinated debt instrument issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a depository institution holding company that, as of the end of any reporting period within 12 months immediately preceding the issuance of such trust preferred security or subordinated debt instrument, had total consolidated assets of less than $15,000,000,000 or issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a mutual holding company.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a banking entity may act as a market maker with respect to the interests of an issuer described in paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with the applicable provisions of §§ 255.4 and 255.11.
(d) Without limiting the applicability of paragraph (a) of this section, the Board, the FDIC and the OCC will make public a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the requirements of paragraph (a). A banking entity may rely on the list published by the Board, the FDIC and the OCC.
[79 FR 5228, Jan. 31, 2014]
§§ 255.17-255.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
§ 255.20
Program for compliance; reporting.
(a)
Program requirement.
Each banking entity (other than a banking entity with limited trading assets and liabilities or a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 255.6(f) or 255.13(d)) shall develop and provide for the continued administration of a compliance program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and covered fund activities and investments set forth in section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. The terms, scope, and detail of the compliance program shall be appropriate for the types, size, scope, and complexity of activities and business structure of the banking entity.
(b)
Banking entities with significant trading assets and liabilities.
With respect to a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the compliance program required by paragraph (a) of this section, at a minimum, shall include:
(1) Written policies and procedures reasonably designed to document, describe, monitor and limit trading activities subject to subpart B (including those permitted under §§ 255.3 to 255.6 of subpart B), including setting, monitoring and managing required limits set out in § 2554 and § 2555, and activities and investments with respect to a covered fund subject to subpart C (including those permitted under §§ 255.11 through 255.14 of subpart C) conducted by the banking entity to ensure that all activities and investments conducted by the banking entity that are subject to section 13 of the BHC Act and this part comply with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(2) A system of internal controls reasonably designed to monitor compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to prevent the occurrence of activities or investments that are prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(3) A management framework that clearly delineates responsibility and accountability for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and includes appropriate management review of trading limits, strategies, hedging activities, investments, incentive compensation and other matters identified in this part or by management as requiring attention;
(4) Independent testing and audit of the effectiveness of the compliance program conducted periodically by qualified personnel of the banking entity or by a qualified outside party;
(5) Training for trading personnel and managers, as well as other appropriate personnel, to effectively implement and enforce the compliance program; and
(6) Records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, which a banking entity must promptly provide to the SEC upon request and retain for a period of no less than 5 years or such longer period as required by the SEC.
(c)
CEO attestation.
The CEO of a banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities must, based on a review by the CEO of the banking entity, attest in writing to the SEC, each year no later than March 31, that the banking entity has in place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify the compliance program required by paragraph (b) of this section in a manner reasonably designed to achieve compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. In the case of a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign banking entity, the attestation may be provided for the entire U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity by the senior management officer of the U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity who is located in the United States.
(d)
Reporting requirements under appendix A to this part.
(1) A banking entity (other than a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 255.6(f) or 255.13(d)) engaged in proprietary trading activity permitted under subpart B shall comply with the reporting requirements described in appendix A to this part, if:
(i) The banking entity has significant trading assets and liabilities; or
(ii) The SEC notifies the banking entity in writing that it must satisfy the reporting requirements contained in appendix A to this part.
(2) Frequency of reporting: Unless the SEC notifies the banking entity in writing that it must report on a different basis, a banking entity subject to appendix A to this part shall report the information required by appendix A for each quarter within 30 days of the end of the quarter.
(e)
Additional documentation for covered funds.
A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities (other than a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 255.6(f) or 255.13(d)) shall maintain records that include:
(1) Documentation of the exclusions or exemptions other than sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 relied on by each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) in determining that such fund is not a covered fund;
(2) For each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) for which the banking entity relies on one or more of the exclusions from the definition of covered fund provided by §§ 255.10(c)(1),255.10(c)(5), 255.10(c)(8), 255.10(c)(9), or 255.10(c)(10) of subpart C, documentation supporting the banking entity's determination that the fund is not a covered fund pursuant to one or more of those exclusions;
(3) For each seeding vehicle described in § 255.10(c)(12)(i) or (iii) of subpart C that will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company, a written plan documenting the banking entity's determination that the seeding vehicle will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company; the period of time during which the vehicle will operate as a seeding vehicle; and the banking entity's plan to market the vehicle to third-party investors and convert it into a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company within the time period specified in § 255.12(a)(2)(i)(B) of subpart C;
(4) For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, if the aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds that are described in § 255.10(c)(1) of subpart C owned by such banking entity (including ownership interests owned by any affiliate that is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State) exceeds $50 million at the end of two or more consecutive calendar quarters, beginning with the next succeeding calendar quarter, documentation of the value of the ownership interests owned by the banking entity (and such affiliates) in each foreign public fund and each jurisdiction in which any such foreign public fund is organized, calculated as of the end of each calendar quarter, which documentation must continue until the banking entity's aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds is below $50 million for two consecutive calendar quarters; and
(5) For purposes of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)
Simplified programs for less active banking entities
—(1)
Banking entities with no covered activities.
A banking entity that does not engage in activities or investments pursuant to subpart B or subpart C (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to § 255.6(a) of subpart B) may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing the required compliance program prior to becoming engaged in such activities or making such investments (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to § 255.6(a) of subpart B).
(2)
Banking entities with moderate trading assets and liabilities.
A banking entity with moderate trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements of this section by including in its existing compliance policies and procedures appropriate references to the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and adjustments as appropriate given the activities, size, scope, and complexity of the banking entity.
(g)
Rebuttable presumption of compliance for banking entities with limited trading assets and liabilities
—(1)
Rebuttable presumption.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, a banking entity with limited trading assets and liabilities shall be presumed to be compliant with subpart B and subpart C of this part and shall have no obligation to demonstrate compliance with this part on an ongoing basis.
(2)
Rebuttal of presumption.
If upon examination or audit, the SEC determines that the banking entity has engaged in proprietary trading or covered fund activities that are otherwise prohibited under subpart B or subpart C of this part, the SEC may require the banking entity to be treated under this part as if it did not have limited trading assets and liabilities. The SEC's rebuttal of the presumption in this paragraph must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(h)
Reservation of authority.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the SEC retains its authority to require a banking entity without significant trading assets and liabilities to apply any requirements of this part that would otherwise apply if the banking entity had significant or moderate trading assets and liabilities if the SEC determines that the size or complexity of the banking entity's trading or investment activities, or the risk of evasion of subpart B or subpart C of this part, does not warrant a presumption of compliance under paragraph (g) of this section or treatment as a banking entity with moderate trading assets and liabilities, as applicable. The SEC's exercise of this reservation of authority must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i)
Notice and response procedures
—(1)
Notice.
The SEC will notify the banking entity in writing of any determination requiring notice under this part and will provide an explanation of the determination.
(2)
Response.
The banking entity may respond to any or all items in the notice described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section. The response should include any matters that the banking entity would have the SEC consider in deciding whether to make the determination. The response must be in writing and delivered to the designated SEC official within 30 days after the date on which the banking entity received the notice. The SEC may shorten the time period when, in the opinion of the SEC, the activities or condition of the banking entity so requires, provided that the banking entity is informed of the time period at the time of notice, or with the consent of the banking entity. In its discretion, the SEC may extend the time period for good cause.
(3)
Waiver.
Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by the SEC shall constitute a waiver of any objections to the SEC's determination.
(4)
Decision.
The SEC will notify the banking entity of the decision in writing. The notice will include an explanation of the decision.
[79 FR 5779, 5805, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62245, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46529, July 31, 2020]
§ 255.21
Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
(a) Any banking entity that engages in an activity or makes an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or acts in a manner that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, including through an abuse of any activity or investment permitted under subparts B or C, or otherwise violates the restrictions and requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, shall, upon discovery, promptly terminate the activity and, as relevant, dispose of the investment.
(b) Whenever the SEC finds reasonable cause to believe any banking entity has engaged in an activity or made an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or engaged in any activity or made any investment that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, the SEC may take any action permitted by law to enforce compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, including directing the banking entity to restrict, limit, or terminate any or all activities under this part and dispose of any investment.
Pt. 255, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 255—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

# I. Purpose
a. This appendix sets forth reporting and recordkeeping requirements that certain banking entities must satisfy in connection with the restrictions on proprietary trading set forth in subpart B (“proprietary trading restrictions”). Pursuant to § 255.20(d), this appendix applies to a banking entity that, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, has significant trading assets and liabilities. These entities are required to (i) furnish periodic reports to the SEC regarding a variety of quantitative measurements of their covered trading activities, which vary depending on the scope and size of covered trading activities, and (ii) create and maintain records documenting the preparation and content of these reports. The requirements of this appendix must be incorporated into the banking entity's internal compliance program under § 255.20.
b. The purpose of this appendix is to assist banking entities and the SEC in:
(1) Better understanding and evaluating the scope, type, and profile of the banking entity's covered trading activities;
(2) Monitoring the banking entity's covered trading activities;
(3) Identifying covered trading activities that warrant further review or examination by the banking entity to verify compliance with the proprietary trading restrictions;
(4) Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks engaged in market making-related activities subject to § 255.4(b) are consistent with the requirements governing permitted market making-related activities;
(5) Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks that are engaged in permitted trading activity subject to § 255.4, § 255.5, or § 255.6(a) and (b) (
i.e.,
underwriting and market making-related activity, risk-mitigating hedging, or trading in certain government obligations) are consistent with the requirement that such activity not result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(6) Identifying the profile of particular covered trading activities of the banking entity, and the individual trading desks of the banking entity, to help establish the appropriate frequency and scope of examination by SEC of such activities; and
(7) Assessing and addressing the risks associated with the banking entity's covered trading activities.
c. Information that must be furnished pursuant to this appendix is not intended to serve as a dispositive tool for the identification of permissible or impermissible activities.
d. In addition to the quantitative measurements required in this appendix, a banking entity may need to develop and implement other quantitative measurements in order to effectively monitor its covered trading activities for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to have an effective compliance program, as required by § 255.20. The effectiveness of particular quantitative measurements may differ based on the profile of the banking entity's businesses in general and, more specifically, of the particular trading desk, including types of instruments traded, trading activities and strategies, and history and experience (e.g., whether the trading desk is an established, successful market maker or a new entrant to
a competitive market). In all cases, banking entities must ensure that they have robust measures in place to identify and monitor the risks taken in their trading activities, to ensure that the activities are within risk tolerances established by the banking entity, and to monitor and examine for compliance with the proprietary trading restrictions in this part.
e. On an ongoing basis, banking entities must carefully monitor, review, and evaluate all furnished quantitative measurements, as well as any others that they choose to utilize in order to maintain compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. All measurement results that indicate a heightened risk of impermissible proprietary trading, including with respect to otherwise-permitted activities under §§ 255.4 through 255.6(a) and (b), or that result in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies, must be escalated within the banking entity for review, further analysis, explanation to SEC, and remediation, where appropriate. The quantitative measurements discussed in this appendix should be helpful to banking entities in identifying and managing the risks related to their covered trading activities.

# II. Definitions
The terms used in this appendix have the same meanings as set forth in §§ 255.2 and 255.3. In addition, for purposes of this appendix, the following definitions apply:
Applicability
identifies the trading desks for which a banking entity is required to calculate and report a particular quantitative measurement based on the type of covered trading activity conducted by the trading desk.
Calculation period
means the period of time for which a particular quantitative measurement must be calculated.
Comprehensive profit
and loss means the net profit or loss of a trading desk's material sources of trading revenue over a specific period of time, including, for example, any increase or decrease in the market value of a trading desk's holdings, dividend income, and interest income and expense.
Covered trading activity
means trading conducted by a trading desk under § 255.4, § 255.5, § 255.6(a), or § 255.6(b). A banking entity may include in its covered trading activity trading conducted under § 255.3(d), § 255.6(c), § 255.6(d), or § 255.6(e).
Measurement frequency
means the frequency with which a particular quantitative metric must be calculated and recorded.
Trading day
means a calendar day on which a trading desk is open for trading.

# III. Reporting and Recordkeeping

# a. Scope of Required Reporting
1. Quantitative measurements. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 255.20 must furnish the following quantitative measurements, as applicable, for each trading desk of the banking entity engaged in covered trading activities and calculate these quantitative measurements in accordance with this appendix:
i. Internal Limits and Usage;
ii. Value-at-Risk;
iii. Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution;
iv. Positions; and
v. Transaction Volumes.
2. Trading desk information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 255.20 must provide certain descriptive information, as further described in this appendix, regarding each trading desk engaged in covered trading activities.
3. Quantitative measurements identifying information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 255.20 must provide certain identifying and descriptive information, as further described in this appendix, regarding its quantitative measurements.
4. Narrative statement. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 255.20 may provide an optional narrative statement, as further described in this appendix.
5. File identifying information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 255.20 must provide file identifying information in each submission to the SEC pursuant to this appendix, including the name of the banking entity, the RSSD ID assigned to the top-tier banking entity by the Board, and identification of the reporting period and creation date and time.

# b. Trading Desk Information
1. Each banking entity must provide descriptive information regarding each trading desk engaged in covered trading activities, including:
i. Name of the trading desk used internally by the banking entity and a unique identification label for the trading desk;
ii. Identification of each type of covered trading activity in which the trading desk is engaged;
iii. Brief description of the general strategy of the trading desk;
v. A list identifying each Agency receiving the submission of the trading desk;
2. Indication of whether each calendar date is a trading day or not a trading day for the trading desk; and
3. Currency reported and daily currency conversion rate.

# c. Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information
Each banking entity must provide the following information regarding the quantitative measurements:
1. An Internal Limits Information Schedule that provides identifying and descriptive information for each limit reported pursuant to the Internal Limits and Usage quantitative measurement, including the name of the limit, a unique identification label for the limit, a description of the limit, the unit of measurement for the limit, the type of limit, and identification of the corresponding risk factor attribution in the particular case that the limit type is a limit on a risk factor sensitivity and profit and loss attribution to the same risk factor is reported; and
2. A Risk Factor Attribution Information Schedule that provides identifying and descriptive information for each risk factor attribution reported pursuant to the Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution quantitative measurement, including the name of the risk factor or other factor, a unique identification label for the risk factor or other factor, a description of the risk factor or other factor, and the risk factor or other factor's change unit.

# d. Narrative Statement
Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 255.20 may submit in a separate electronic document a Narrative Statement to the SEC with any information the banking entity views as relevant for assessing the information reported. The Narrative Statement may include further description of or changes to calculation methods, identification of material events, description of and reasons for changes in the banking entity's trading desk structure or trading desk strategies, and when any such changes occurred.

# e. Frequency and Method of Required Calculation and Reporting
A banking entity must calculate any applicable quantitative measurement for each trading day. A banking entity must report the Trading Desk Information, the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information, and each applicable quantitative measurement electronically to the SEC on the reporting schedule established in § 255.20 unless otherwise requested by the SEC. A banking entity must report the Trading Desk Information, the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information, and each applicable quantitative measurement to the SEC in accordance with the XML Schema specified and published on the SEC's website.

# f. Recordkeeping
A banking entity must, for any quantitative measurement furnished to the SEC pursuant to this appendix and § 255.20(d), create and maintain records documenting the preparation and content of these reports, as well as such information as is necessary to permit the SEC to verify the accuracy of such reports, for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year for which the measurement was taken. A banking entity must retain the Narrative Statement, the Trading Desk Information, and the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year for which the information was reported to the SEC.

# IV. Quantitative Measurements

# a. Risk-Management Measurements

# 1. Internal Limits and Usage
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Internal Limits are the constraints that define the amount of risk and the positions that a trading desk is permitted to take at a point in time, as defined by the banking entity for a specific trading desk. Usage represents the value of the trading desk's risk or positions that are accounted for by the current activity of the desk. Internal limits and their usage are key compliance and risk management tools used to control and monitor risk taking and include, but are not limited to, the limits set out in §§ 255.4 and 255.5. A trading desk's risk limits, commonly including a limit on “Value-at-Risk,” are useful in the broader context of the trading desk's overall activities, particularly for the market making activities under § 255.4(b) and hedging activity under § 255.5. Accordingly, the limits required under §§ 255.4(b)(2)(iii)(C) and 255.5(b)(1)(i)(A) must meet the applicable requirements under §§ 255.4(b)(2)(iii)(C) and 255.5(b)(1)(i)(A) and also must include appropriate metrics for the trading desk limits including, at a minimum, “Value-at-Risk” except to the extent the “Value-at-Risk” metric is demonstrably ineffective for measuring and monitoring the risks of a trading desk based on the types of positions traded by, and risk exposures of, that desk.
A. A banking entity must provide the following information for each limit reported pursuant to this quantitative measurement: The unique identification label for the limit reported in the Internal Limits Information Schedule, the limit size (distinguishing between an upper and a lower limit), and the value of usage of the limit.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# 2. Value-at-Risk
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) is the measurement of the risk of future financial loss in
the value of a trading desk's aggregated positions at the ninety-nine percent confidence level over a one-day period, based on current market conditions.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# b. Source-of-Revenue Measurements

# 1. Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution is an analysis that attributes the daily fluctuation in the value of a trading desk's positions to various sources. First, the daily profit and loss of the aggregated positions is divided into two categories: (i) Profit and loss attributable to a trading desk's existing positions that were also positions held by the trading desk as of the end of the prior day (“existing positions”); and (ii) profit and loss attributable to new positions resulting from the current day's trading activity (“new positions”).
A. The comprehensive profit and loss associated with existing positions must reflect changes in the value of these positions on the applicable day. The comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions must be further attributed, as applicable, to (i) changes in the specific risk factors and other factors that are monitored and managed as part of the trading desk's overall risk management policies and procedures; and (ii) any other applicable elements, such as cash flows, carry, changes in reserves, and the correction, cancellation, or exercise of a trade.
B. For the attribution of comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions to specific risk factors and other factors, a banking entity must provide the following information for the factors that explain the preponderance of the profit or loss changes due to risk factor changes: The unique identification label for the risk factor or other factor listed in the Risk Factor Attribution Information Schedule, and the profit or loss due to the risk factor or other factor change.
C. The comprehensive profit and loss attributed to new positions must reflect commissions and fee income or expense and market gains or losses associated with transactions executed on the applicable day. New positions include purchases and sales of financial instruments and other assets/liabilities and negotiated amendments to existing positions. The comprehensive profit and loss from new positions may be reported in the aggregate and does not need to be further attributed to specific sources.
D. The portion of comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions that is not attributed to changes in specific risk factors and other factors must be allocated to a residual category. Significant unexplained profit and loss must be escalated for further investigation and analysis.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# c. Positions and Transaction Volumes Measurements

# 1. Positions
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Positions is the value of securities and derivatives positions managed by the trading desk. For purposes of the Positions quantitative measurement, do not include in the Positions calculation for “securities” those securities that are also “derivatives,” as those terms are defined under subpart A; instead, report those securities that are also derivatives as “derivatives.”
1
A banking entity must separately report the trading desk's market value of long securities positions, short securities positions, derivatives receivables, and derivatives payables.
1
See
§ 255.2(h), (aa). For example, under this part, a security-based swap is both a “security” and a “derivative.” For purposes of the Positions quantitative measurement, security-based swaps are reported as derivatives rather than securities.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks that rely on § 255.4(a) or (b) to conduct underwriting activity or market-making-related activity, respectively.

# 2. Transaction Volumes
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Transaction Volumes measures three exclusive categories of covered trading activity conducted by a trading desk. A banking entity is required to report the value and number of security and derivative transactions conducted by the trading desk with: (i) Customers, excluding internal transactions; (ii) non-customers, excluding internal transactions; and (iii) trading desks and other organizational units where the transaction is booked into either the same banking entity or an affiliated banking entity. For securities, value means gross market value. For derivatives, value means gross notional value. For purposes of calculating the Transaction Volumes quantitative measurement, do not include in the Transaction Volumes calculation for “securities” those securities that are also “derivatives,” as those terms are defined under subpart A; instead, report those securities that are also derivatives as “derivatives.”
2
Further, for purposes of the
Transaction Volumes quantitative measurement, a customer of a trading desk that relies on § 255.4(a) to conduct underwriting activity is a market participant identified in § 255.4(a)(7), and a customer of a trading desk that relies on § 255.4(b) to conduct market making-related activity is a market participant identified in § 255.4(b)(3).
2
See
§ 255.2(h), (aa).
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks that rely on § 255.4(a) or (b) to conduct underwriting activity or market-making-related activity, respectively.
[84 FR 62246, Nov. 14, 2019]
PARTS 256-259 [RESERVED]
Pt. 260

# PART 260—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939

# Terms Used in the Rules and Regulations
Sec.
260.0-1
Application of definitions contained in the act.
260.0-2
Definitions of terms used in the rules and regulations.
260.0-3
Definition of “rules and regulations” as used in certain sections of the Act.
260.0-4
Sequential numbering of documents filed with the Commission.

# Office of the Commission
260.0-5
Business hours of the Commission.
260.0-6
Nondisclosure of information obtained in the course of examinations and investigations.
260.0-7
Small entities for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
260.0-11
Liability for certain statements by issuers.

# Rules Under Section 303
260.3(4)-1
Definition of “commission from an underwriter or dealer not in excess of the usual and customary distributors' or sellers' commissions” in section 303(4), for certain transactions.
260.3(4)-2
Definition of “distribution” in section 303(4) for certain transactions.
260.3(4)-3
Definitions of “participates” and “participation” as used in section 303(4), in relation to certain transactions.

# Rules Under Section 304
260.4a-1
Exempted securities under section 304(a)(8).
260.4a-2
Exempted securities under section 304(d).
260.4a-3
Exempted securities under section 304(a)(9).
260.4c-1
Form for applications under section 304(c).
260.4c-2
General requirements as to form and content of applications.
260.4c-3
Number of copies; filing; signatures; binding.
260.4c-4
Applications under section 304(c)(1).
260.4c-5
Applications under section 304(c)(2).
260.4d-7
Application for exemption from one or more provisions of the Act.
260.4d-8
Content.
260.4d-9
Exemption for Canadian Trust Indentures from Specified Provisions of the Act.
260.4d-10
Exemption for securities issued pursuant to § 230.802 of this chapter.
260.4d-11
Exemption for security-based swaps offered and sold in reliance on Rule 239 under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230.239).
260.4d-12
Exemption for security-based swaps offered and sold in reliance on Securities Act of 1933 Rule 240 (§ 230.240).

# Rules Under Section 305
260.5a-1
Forms for statements of eligibility and qualification.
260.5a-2
General requirements as to form and content of statements of eligibility and qualification.
260.5a-3
Number of copies; filing; signatures; binding.
260.5b-1
Application pursuant to section 305(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act for determining eligibility of a person designated as trustee for offerings on a delayed basis.
260.5b-2
General requirements as to form and content of applications.
260.5b-3
Number of copies—Filing—Signatures.

# Rules Under Section 307

# Applications for Qualification of Indentures
260.7a-1
Form for application.
260.7a-2
Powers of agent for service named in application.
260.7a-3
Number of copies; filing; signatures; binding.
260.7a-4
Calculation of time.
260.7a-5
Filing of amendments; number of copies.
260.7a-6
Telegraphic delaying amendments.
260.7a-7
Effective date of amendment filed under section 8(a) of the Securities Act with the consent of the Commission.
260.7a-8
Effective date of amendment filed under section 8(a) of the Securities Act pursuant to order of Commission.
260.7a-9
Delaying amendments.

# General Requirements as to Form and Content of Applications, Statements and Reports

# General
260.7a-15
Scope of §§ 260.7a-15 to 260.7a-37.

# Formal Requirements
260.7a-16
Inclusion of items, differentiation between items and answers, omission of instructions.
260.7a-17
Quality, color and size of paper.
260.7a-18
Legibility.
260.7a-19
Margin for binding.
260.7a-20
Riders; inserts.

# General Requirements as to Contents
260.7a-21
Clarity.
260.7a-22
Information unknown or not reasonably available.
260.7a-23
Statements required where item is inapplicable or where answer is “none”.
260.7a-24
Words relating to periods of time in the past.
260.7a-25
Words relating to the future.
260.7a-26
Disclaimer of control.
260.7a-27
Title of securities.

# Incorporation by Reference
260.7a-28
Incorporation of matter in application, statement or report, other than exhibits, as answer to item.
260.7a-29
Incorporation of exhibits as such.
260.7a-30
Identification of material incorporated; form of incorporation.
260.7a-31
Incorporation by reference of contested material.
260.7a-32
Incorporation by reference rendering document incomplete, unclear, or confusing.

# Exhibits
260.7a-33
Additional exhibits.
260.7a-34
Omission of substantially identical documents.

# Amendments
260.7a-35
Formal requirements as to amendments.
260.7a-36
Signatures to amendments.

# Inspection and Publication of Applications, Statements and Reports
260.7a-37
Inspection of applications, statements and reports.

# Rules Under Section 310
260.10a-1
Application for determining eligibility of a foreign person to act as sole trustee pursuant to section 310(a)(1) of the Act.
260.10a-2
General requirements as to form and content of applications.
260.10a-3
Number of copies—Filing—Signatures.
260.10a-4
Consent of trustee to service of process.
260.10a-5
Eligibility of Canadian Trustees.
260.10b-1
Calculation of percentages.
260.10b-2
Applications under section 310(b)(1)(ii).
260.10b-3
Applications relative to affiliations between trustees and underwriters.
260.10b-4
Application for stay of trustee's duty to resign pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act.
260.10b-5
Content.
260.10b-6
Notices—Exemptive Application Procedure.

# Rules Under Section 311
260.11b-4
Definition of “cash transaction” in section 311(b)(4).
260.11b-6
Definition of “self-liquidating paper” in section 311(b)(6).

# Rules Under Section 314

# Periodic Reports
260.14a-1
Application of §§ 260.7a-15 to 260.7a-38.
260.19a-1
Compliance with Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act for certain eligible indenture obligors.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77c, 77ddd, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss, 78
ll
(d), 80b-3, 80b-4, and 80b-11, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
5 FR 293, Jan. 25, 1940, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 260 appear at 57 FR 36501, Aug. 13, 1992, and 57 FR 47409, Oct. 16, 1992.

# Note:
In §§ 260.0-1 to 260.14a-1 the numbers to the right of the decimal point correspond with the respective rule number of the general rules and regulations under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.

# ATTENTION ELECTRONIC FILERS
THIS REGULATION SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH REGULATION S-T (PART 232 OF THIS CHAPTER), WHICH GOVERNS THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT. MANY PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN PAPER FORMAT CONTAINED IN THIS REGULATION ARE SUPERSEDED BY THE PROVISIONS OF REGULATION S-T FOR DOCUMENTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT.

# Terms Used in the Rules and Regulations
§ 260.0-1
Application of definitions contained in the act.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in the act shall, when used in the rules and regulations, have the respective meanings given in the act.
§ 260.0-2
Definitions of terms used in the rules and regulations.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, when used in this part, shall have the respective meanings indicated in this section:
(a)
Act.
The term “act” means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. (53 Stat. 1149; 15 U.S.C. 77aaa)
(b)
Affiliate.
The term “affiliate” means a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, another person. The terms “affiliated” and “affiliation” have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
(c)
Agent for service.
The term “agent for service” means the person authorized to receive notices and communications from the Commission.
(d)
Amount.
The term “amount” when used in regard to securities, shall have the meaning given in § 260.10b-1(c).
(e)
Class.
The term “class”, when used in regard to securities, shall have the meaning given in § 260.10b-1(e).
(f)
Control.
The term “control” means the power to direct the management and policies of a person, directly or through one or more intermediaries, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. The terms “controlling” and “controlled” have meanings correlative to the foregoing. (See § 260.a-26.)
(g)
Electronic filer.
The term
electronic filer
means a person or an entity that submits filings electronically pursuant to Rules 100 and 101 of Regulation S-T (§§ 232.100 and 232.101 of this chapter, respectively).
(h)
Electronic filing.
The term
electronic filing
means a document under the federal securities laws that is transmitted or delivered to the Commission in electronic format.
(i)
Outstanding.
The term “outstanding”, when used in regard to securities, shall have the meaning given in § 260.10b-1(d).
(j)
Parent.
The term “parent” means a person controlling one or more other persons.
(k)
Rules and regulations.
The term “rules and regulations” means all rules and regulations adopted by the Commission pursuant to the act, including the forms and instructions thereto.
(l)
Section.
The term “section” means a section of the act.
1
1
References to “this section” or to section number preceded by a section symbol are to sections in the Code of Federal Regulations.
(m)
Subsidiary.
The term “subsidiary” means a person controlled by another person.
[5 FR 293, Jan. 25, 1940, as amended at 58 FR 14686, Mar. 18, 1993; 62 FR 36459, July 8, 1997]
§ 260.0-3
Definition of “rules and regulations” as used in certain sections of the Act.
(a) The term
rules and regulations
as used in section 305 of the Act shall include the forms for registration of securities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the related instructions thereto, and the forms for information, documents and statements under section 305 of the Act.
(b) The term
rules and regulations
as used in section 307 of the Act shall include the forms for applications under section 307 of the Act and the related instructions thereto.
[21 FR 1046, Feb. 15, 1956]
§ 260.0-4
Sequential numbering of documents filed with the Commission.
The manually signed original (or in the case of duplicate originals, one duplicate original) of all registrations, applications, statements, reports, or other documents filed under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 shall be numbered sequentially (in addition to any internal numbering which otherwise may be present) by handwritten, typed, printed, or other legible form of notation from the facing page of the document through the last page of that document and any exhibits or attachments thereto. Further, the total number of pages contained in a numbered original
shall be set forth on the first page of the document.
[44 FR 4666, Jan. 23, 1979, as amended at 76 FR 71877, Nov. 21, 2011]

# Office of the Commission
§ 260.0-5
Business hours of the Commission.
(a)
General.
The principal office of the Commission, at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, is open each day, except Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays, from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect,
provided that
the hours for the filing of documents with the Commission are as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Submissions made in paper.
Paper documents filed with or otherwise furnished to the Commission may be submitted to the Commission each day, except Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays, from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect.
(c)
Electronic filings.
Filings made by direct transmission may be submitted to the Commission each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect.
[58 FR 14687, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 24802, Apr. 27, 2000; 68 FR 25800, May 13, 2003; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008; 88 FR 12209, Feb. 27, 2023]
§ 260.0-6
Nondisclosure of information obtained in the course of examinations and investigations.
Information or documents obtained by officers or employees of the Commission in the course of any examination or investigation under section 8(e) of the Securities Act of 1933 (48 Stat. 79; 15 U.S.C. 77h), pursuant to section 307(c) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (53 Stat. 1156; 15 U.S.C. 77ggg), or any examination or investigation under section 20(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (48 Stat. 86; 15 U.S.C. 77t), pursuant to section 321(a) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (53 Stat. 1174; 15 U.S.C. 77uuu), shall, unless made a matter of public record, be deemed confidential. Except as provided by 17 CFR 203.2, officers and employees are hereby prohibited from making such confidential information or documents or any other non-public records of the Commission available to anyone other than a member, officer or employee of the Commission, unless the Commission or the General Counsel, pursuant to delegated authority, authorizes the disclosure of such information or the production of such documents as not being contrary to the public interest. Any officer or employee who is served with a subpoena requiring the disclosure of such information or the production of such documents shall appear in court and, unless the authorization described in the preceding sentence shall have been given, shall respectfully decline to disclose the information or produce the documents called for, basing his or her refusal upon this section. Any officer or employee who is served with such a subpoena shall promptly advise the General Counsel of the service of such subpoena, the nature of the information or documents sought, and any circumstances which may bear upon the desirability of making available such information or documents.
[44 FR 50836, Aug. 30, 1979, as amended at 53 FR 17459, May 17, 1988; 54 FR 33501, Aug. 15, 1989; 76 FR 71877, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 260.0-7
Small entities for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
For purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with the provisions of Chapter Six of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), and unless otherwise defined for purposes of a particular rulemaking proceeding, the term “small business” or “small organization,” for purposes of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 shall mean an issuer whose total assets on the last day of its most recent fiscal year were $5 million or less that is engaged or proposing to engage in small business financing. An issuer is considered to be engaged or proposing to be engaged in small business financing under this section if it is conducting or
proposing to conduct an offering of securities which does not exceed the dollar limitation prescribed by § 260.4a-2.
[47 FR 5223, Feb. 4, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 25362, July 14, 1986]
§ 260.0-11
Liability for certain statements by issuers.
(a) A statement within the coverage of paragraph (b) below which is made by or on behalf of an issuer or by an outside reviewer retained by the issuer shall be deemed not to be a fraudulent statement (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section), unless it is shown that such statement was made or reaffirmed without a reasonable basis or was disclosed other than in good faith.
(b) This rule applies to the following statements:
(1) A forward-looking statement (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) made in a document filed with the Commission, in Part I of a quarterly report on Form 10-Q, § 249.308a of this chapter, or in an annual report to security holders meeting the requirements of Rules 14a-3(b) and (c) or 14c-3(a) and (b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.14a-3(b) and (c) or § 240.14c-3(a) and (b) of this chapter), a statement reaffirming such forward-looking statement after the date the document was filed or the annual report was made publicly available, or a forward-looking statement made before the date the document was filed or the date the annual report was made publicly available if such statement is reaffirmed in a filed document, in Part I of a quarterly report on Form 10-Q, or in an annual report made publicly available within a reasonable time after the making of such forward-looking statement;
Provided, that:
(i) At the time such statements are made or reaffirmed, either the issuer is subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and has complied with the requirements of Rule 13a-1 or 15d-1 (§ 240.13a-1 or § 240.15d-1 of this chapter) thereunder, if applicable, to file its most recent annual report on Form 10-K, Form 20-F, or Form 40-F; or if the issuer is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the statements are made in a registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or pursuant to section 12(b) or (g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(ii) The statements are not made by or on behalf of an issuer that is an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940; and
(2) Information relating to the effects of changing prices on the business enterprise presented voluntarily or pursuant to Item 303 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.303 of this chapter), Item 5 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” Item 302 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.302 of this chapter), “Supplementary Financial Information,” or Rule 3-20(c) of Regulation S-X (§ 210.3-20(c) of this chapter), and disclosed in a document filed with the Commission, in Part I of a quarterly report on Form 10-Q, or in an annual report to shareholders meeting the requirements of Rules 14a-3(b) and (c) or 14c-3(a) and (b) (§ 240.14a-3(b) and (c) or § 240.14c-3(a) and (b)) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(c) For the purpose of this rule, the term
forward-looking statement
shall mean and shall be limited to:
(1) A statement containing a projection of revenues, income (loss), earnings (loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items;
(2) A statement of management's plans and objectives for future operations;
(3) A statement of future economic performance contained in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included pursuant to Item 303 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.303 of this chapter) or Item 5 of Form 20-F; or
(4) Disclosed statements of the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the statements described in paragraphs (c) (1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(d) For the purpose of this rule the term
fraudulent statement
shall mean a statement which is an untrue statement of a material fact, a statement false or misleading with respect to any material fact, an omission to state a material fact necessary to make a
statement not misleading, or which constitutes the employment of a manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent device, contrivance, scheme, transaction, act, practice, course of business, or an artifice to defraud, as those terms are used in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and other acts referred to in section 323(b) thereof or the rules or regulations promulgated thereunder.
[46 FR 19458, Mar. 31, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 54790, Dec. 26, 1982; 56 FR 30077, July 1, 1991; 64 FR 53925, Oct. 5, 1999; 73 FR 982, Jan. 4, 2008]

# Rules Under Section 303
§ 260.3(4)-1
Definition of “commission from an underwriter or dealer not in excess of the usual and customary distributors' or sellers' commissions” in section 303(4), for certain transactions.
(a) The term
commission
in section 303(4) shall include such remuneration, commonly known as a spread, as may be received by a distributor or dealer as a consequence of reselling securities bought from an underwriter or dealer at a price below the offering price of such securities, where such resales afford the distributor or dealer a margin of profit not in excess of what is usual and customary in such transactions.
(b) The term
commission from an underwriter or dealer
in section 303(4) shall include commissions paid by an underwriter or dealer affiliated with the issuer.
(c) The term
usual and customary distributors' or sellers' commission
in section 303(4) shall mean a commission or remuneration, commonly known as a spread, paid to or received by any person selling securities either for his own account or for the account of others, which is not in excess of the amount usual and customary in the distribution and sale of issues of similar type and size, and not in excess of the amount allowed to other persons, if any, for comparable service in the distribution of the particular issue; but such term shall not include amounts paid to any person whose function is the management of the distribution of all of a substantial part of the particular issue, or who performs the functions normally performed by an underwriter or underwriting syndicate.
§ 260.3(4)-2
Definition of “distribution” in section 303(4) for certain transactions.
A person, the chief part of the business of which consists in the purchase of the securities of any one issuer and/or its affiliate and in the sale of its own securities to furnish the proceeds with which to acquire the securities of such issuer and/or affiliate, is to be regarded as engaged in the distribution of the securities of such issuer and/or affiliate within the meaning of section 303(4).
§ 260.3(4)-3
Definitions of “participates” and “participation” as used in section 303(4), in relation to certain transactions.
(a) The terms
participates
and
participation
in section 303(4) shall not include the interest of a person (1) who is neither in privity of contract with the issuer nor affiliated with the issuer, and (2) who has no association with any principal underwriter of the securities being distributed, and (3) whose function in the distribution is confined to an undertaking to purchase all or some specified proportion of the securities remaining unsold after the lapse of some specified period of time, and (4) who purchases such securities for investment and not with a view to distribution.
(b) As used in this section:
(1) The term
association
shall include a relationship between two persons under which one (i) is affiliated with the other, or (ii) has, in common with the other, one or more partners, directors, officers, trustees, branch managers, or other persons occupying a similar status or performing similar functions or (iii) has a participation, direct or indirect, in the profits of the other, or has a financial stake, by debtor-creditor relationship, stock ownership, contract or otherwise, in the income or business of the other.
(2) The term
principal underwriter
means an underwriter in privity of contract with the issuer of the securities as to which he is underwriter.

# Rules Under Section 304
§ 260.4a-1
Exempted securities under section 304(a)(8).
The provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 shall not apply to any security that has been or will be issued otherwise than under an indenture. The same issuer may not claim this exemption within a period of twelve consecutive months for more than $50,000,000 aggregate principal amount of any securities.
[80 FR 21925, Apr. 20, 2015]
§ 260.4a-2
Exempted securities under section 304(d).
The provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 shall not apply to any security that has been issued or will be issued in accordance with the provisions of Regulation A (17 CFR 230.251
et seq.
) under the Securities Act of 1933.
[57 FR 36501, Aug. 13, 1992]
§ 260.4a-3
Exempted securities under section 304(a)(9).
The provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 shall not apply to any security which has been or is to be issued under an indenture which limits the aggregate principal amount of securities at any time outstanding thereunder to $10,000,000 or less, but this exemption shall not be applied within a period of thirty-six consecutive months to more than $10,000,000 aggregate principal amount of securities of the same issuer.
(Secs. 304(a)(8) and 304(a)(9) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, (sec. 302, Pub. L. 96-477; secs. 304(a)(8), 304(a)(9), 53 Stat. 1153; 15 U.S.C. 77ddd(a)(8), 77ddd(a)(9)))
[46 FR 63256, Dec. 31, 1981. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 36501, Aug. 13, 1992]
§ 260.4c-1
Form for applications under section 304(c).
Form T-4 shall be used for applications for exemption filed pursuant to section 304(c) of the act.
[6 FR 981, Feb. 15, 1941]
§ 260.4c-2
General requirements as to form and content of applications.
Sections 260.7a-15 to 260.7a-38 shall be applicable to applications on Form T-4.
[6 FR 981, Feb. 15, 1941]
§ 260.4c-3
Number of copies; filing; signatures; binding.
(a) Three copies of every application and of every amendment thereto shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office.
(b) At least the original of each application or amendment filed with the Commission shall be signed in the manner prescribed by Form T-4 (§ 269.4 of this chapter).
(c) The application proper and the exhibits thereto shall be bound on the left side in one or more parts, but without stiff covers.
[16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951]
§ 260.4c-4
Applications under section 304(c)(1).
(a) An applicant under section 304(c)(1) may, if it so desires, waive a hearing and request the Commission to decide the application without a formal hearing on the basis of the application and such other information and documents as the Commission shall designate as a part of the record. However, a hearing may be called upon order of the Commission notwithstanding that the applicant shall have filed such a waiver and request whenever, in the judgment of the Commission, such a hearing is necessary or appropriate in the public interest.
(b) If the applicant waives a hearing and requests the Commission to decide the application without a hearing and if no hearing has been ordered by the Commission:
(1) The applicant shall, at the request of the Commission, furnish such additional information or documents as the Commission may deem necessary to decide the application.
(2) The Commission may, with the consent of the applicant, make a part of the record any pertinent information or documents filed with the Commission by the applicant or by any other person.
(3) The Commission shall, in its order deciding the application, designate and
describe the information and documents comprising the record on which the decision is based.
[6 FR 981, Feb. 15, 1941]
§ 260.4c-5
Applications under section 304(c)(2).
A hearing shall be held upon every application filed pursuant to section 304(c)(2).
[6 FR 981, Feb. 15, 1941]
§ 260.4d-7
Application for exemption from one or more provisions of the Act.
(a) Three copies of every application for an order under section 304(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77ddd(d)) and of every amendment thereto shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office.
(b) One copy shall be manually signed by a duly authorized officer of the applicant (or individual customarily performing similar functions with respect to an organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated), or by a natural person seeking exemption under section 304(d) of the Act.
(c) Such applications shall be on paper no larger 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size. If reduction of large documents would render them illegible, such documents may be filed on paper larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size. The left margin shall be at least 1
1/2
inches wide and if the application is bound, it shall be bound on the left side.
(d) The application shall be typed, printed, copied, or prepared by a process which produces copies suitable for repeated photocopying and microfilming. All typewritten or printed matter shall be set forth in black ink to permit photocopying. If printed, the application shall be in type not smaller than 10-point, roman type, at least two points leaded.
(e) Rules 7a-28 through 7a-32 (§§ 260.7a-28 through 260.7a-32 of this chapter) relating to incorporation by reference shall be applicable to applications for exemption pursuant to section 304(d) of the Act.
[56 FR 22319, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.4d-8
Content.
(a) Each application for an order under section 304(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77ddd(d)) shall contain the name, address, and telephone number of each applicant and the name, address, and telephone number of any person to which such applicant wishes any questions regarding the application to be directed.
(b) Each application shall contain a statement of the relevant facts on which the request for relief is based, including a justification for the exemption(s) requested and a discussion of any benefit expected for security holders, trustees and/or obligors.
[56 FR 22319, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.4d-9
Exemption for Canadian Trust Indentures from Specified Provisions of the Act.
Any trust indenture filed in connection with offerings on a registration statement on Form S-1, (§ 239.1 of this chapter) F-7, F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80 (§§ 239.37 through 239.41 of this chapter) shall be exempt from the operation of sections 310(a)(3) and 310(a)(4), sections 310(b) through 316(a), and sections 316(c) through 318(a) of the Act; provided that the trust indenture is subject to:
(a) The Canada Business Corporations Act, R. S. C. 1985;
(b) The Bank Act, R. S. C. 1985;
(c) The Business Corporations Act, 1982 (Ontario), S. O. 1982; or
(d) The Company Act, R.S.B.C. 1979, C. 59.
[56 FR 30077, July 1, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 36501, Aug. 13, 1992; 58 FR 33190, June 16, 1993; 73 FR 983, Jan. 4, 2008]
§ 260.4d-10
Exemption for securities issued pursuant to § 230.802 of this chapter.
Any debt security, whether or not issued under an indenture, is exempt from the Act if made in compliance with § 230.802 of this chapter.
[64 FR 61406, Nov. 10, 1999]
§ 260.4d-11
Exemption for security-based swaps offered and sold in reliance on Rule 239 under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230.239).
Any security-based swap offered and sold in reliance on Rule 239 under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230.239),
whether or not issued under an indenture, is exempt from the Act.
[77 FR 20549, Apr. 5, 2012]
§ 260.4d-12
Exemption for security-based swaps offered and sold in reliance on Securities Act of 1933 Rule 240 (§ 230.240).
Any security-based swap offered and sold in reliance on § 230.240 of this chapter, whether or not issued under an indenture, is exempt from the Act. This section will expire on February 11, 2018.
[82 FR 10707, Feb. 15, 2017]

# Rules Under Section 305
§ 260.5a-1
Forms for statements of eligibility and qualification.
(a) Form T-1 shall be used for statements of eligibility and qualification of corporations designated to act as trustees under trust indentures to be qualified pursuant to section 305 or 307 of the Act.
(b) Form T-2 shall be used for statements of eligibility and qualification of individuals designated to act as trustees under trust indentures to be qualified pursuant to section 305 or 307 of the Act.
§ 260.5a-2
General requirements as to form and content of statements of eligibility and qualification.
Rules 7a-15 through 7a-37 (§§ 260.7a-15 through 260.7a-37 of this chapter) under section 307 under the Trust Indenture Act shall be applicable to statements filed on Forms T-1, T-2, and T-6.
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.5a-3
Number of copies; filing; signatures; binding.
(a) Three copies of each statement of eligibility and qualification shall be filed with the registration statement or application for qualification.
(b) At least the original of each statement of eligibility and qualification filed with the Commission shall be signed in the manner prescribed by the particular form.
(c) Each statement of eligibility and qualification and the exhibits thereto shall be bound on the left-hand side in one or more parts, without stiff covers. The binding shall be made in such manner as to leave the reading matter legible.
(d) The statement or statements shall be filed by the obligor upon the indenture securities as a separate part of the registration statement or application for qualification, as the case may be.
[6 FR 667, Jan. 30, 1941, as amended at 16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951]
§ 260.5b-1
Application pursuant to section 305(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act for determining eligibility of a person designated as trustee for offerings on a delayed basis.
Forms T-1 and T-2 (17 CFR 269.1 and 269.2) shall be used for applications filed for the purpose of determining the eligibility under section 310(a) of the Act of a person designated as trustee for debt securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933 which are eligible to be issued, offered, or sold on a delayed basis by or on behalf of the registrant.
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.5b-2
General requirements as to form and content of applications.
Rule 5a-2 (§ 260.5a-2 of this chapter) and rules 7a-15 through 7a-37 [§§ 260.7a-15 through 260.7a-37 of this chapter] shall be applicable to applications pursuant to rule 5b-1 (§ 260.56b-1 of this chapter).
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.5b-3
Number of copies—Filing—Signatures.
(a) Three copies of every application pursuant to rule 5b-1 (§ 260.5b-1 of this chapter) and of every amendment thereto shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office by the issuer upon the indenture securities. Such application shall be filed no later than the second business day following the initial date of public offering or sales after effectiveness of the registration statement with respect to such securities, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(b) One copy shall be manually signed by the applicant's duly authorized officer (or individual customarily performing similar functions with respect
to any organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated), or by the individual trustee, as applicable.
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]

# Rules Under Section 307

# Applications for Qualification of Indentures
§ 260.7a-1
Form for application.
Form T-3 shall be used for applications for qualification of indentures pursuant to section 307(a).
§ 260.7a-2
Powers of agent for service named in application.
Every applicant shall be deemed, in the absence of a statement to the contrary, to confer upon the agent for service the following powers:
(a) A power to amend the application for qualification by altering the date of the proposed offering of the indenture securities.
(b) A power to make application pursuant to § 260.7 for the Commission's consent to the filing of an amendment.
(c) A power to withdraw the application for qualification or any amendment thereto.
(d) A power to consent to the entry of an order under section 8(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (48 Stat. 79; 15 U.S.C. 77
l
), waiving notice and hearing, such order being entered without prejudice to the right of the applicant thereafter to have the order vacated upon a showing to the Commission that the application for qualification, as amended, is no longer incomplete or inaccurate on its face in any material respect.
§ 260.7a-3
Number of copies; filing; signatures; binding.
(a) Three copies of the complete application shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office.
(b) At least the original of each application filed with the Commission shall be signed in the manner prescribed by Form T-3 (§ 269.3 of this chapter).
(c) The application proper and the exhibits thereto shall be bound on the left side in one or more parts, but without stiff covers. The binding shall be made in such manner as to leave the reading matter legible.
[16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951]
§ 260.7a-4
Calculation of time.
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be counted in computing the effective date of applications for qualification filed under section 307(a) of the Act. The twentieth day shall be deemed to begin at the expiration of nineteen periods of twenty-four hours each from 5:30 p.m., eastern standard time or eastern daylight-saving time, whichever is in effect at the principal office of the Commission on the date of filing.
[12 FR 2941, May 2, 1947]
§ 260.7a-5
Filing of amendments; number of copies.
Except as provided in § 260.7a-6, three copies of every amendment to an application shall be filed with the Commission.
[16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951]
§ 260.7a-6
Telegraphic delaying amendments.
An amendment altering the proposed date of the public offering may be made by the agent for service by telegram. In each case, such telegraphic amendment shall be confirmed within a reasonable time by the filing of three copies, one of which shall be signed by the agent for service. Such confirmation shall not be deemed an amendment.
§ 260.7a-7
Effective date of amendment filed under section 8(a) of the Securities Act with the consent of the Commission.
An applicant desiring the Commission's consent to the filing of an amendment with the effect provided in section 8(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 may apply for such consent at or before the time of filing the amendment. The application shall be signed by the applicant or the agent for service and shall state fully the grounds upon which made. The Commission's consent shall be deemed to be given and the amendment shall be treated as a part of the application for qualification upon the sending of written or telegraphic notice to that effect.
§ 260.7a-8
Effective date of amendment filed under section 8(a) of the Securities Act pursuant to order of Commission.
An amendment made prior to the effective date of the application of qualification shall be deemed to be made pursuant to an order of the Commission within the meaning of section 8(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 so as to be treated as part of the application for qualification only when the Commission shall, after the filing of such amendment, find that it has been filed pursuant to its order.
§ 260.7a-9
Delaying amendments.
(a) An amendment in the following form filed with an application for qualification, or as an amendment to such an application which has not become effective, shall be deemed to be filed on such date or dates as may be necessary to delay the effective date of such application for the period specified in such amendment:
The obligor hereby amends this application for qualification on such date or dates as may be necessary to delay its effectiveness until (i) the 20th day after the filing of a further amendment which specifically states that it shall supersede this amendment, or (ii) such date as the Commission, acting pursuant to section 307(c) of the Act, may determine upon the written request of the obligor.
(b) An amendment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section which is filed with an application for qualification shall be set forth on the facing page thereof. Any such amendment filed after the filing of the application may be made by letter or telegram and may be signed by the agent for service. Any amendment filed to supersede an amendment filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may also be made by letter or telegram. Every such telegraphic amendment shall be confirmed in writing within a reasonable time by filing a signed copy of the amendment. Such confirmation shall not be deemed an amendment.
[30 FR 12387, Sept. 29, 1965]

# General Requirements as to Form and Content of Applications, Statements and Reports

# General
§ 260.7a-15
Scope of §§ 260.7a-15 to 260.7a-37.
The rules contained in §§ 260.7a-15 to 260.7a-37 shall govern applications for exemption filed pursuant to section 304(c) or 304(d) of the Act, applications for qualification of indentures filed pursuant to section 307, statements of eligibility and qualifications of trustees filed pursuant to section 305, 307, or 310(a) of the Act, applications for the stay of the trustee's duty to resign filed pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act, and reports filed pursuant to section 314(a) of the Act.
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]

# Formal Requirements
§ 260.7a-16
Inclusion of items, differentiation between items and answers, omission of instructions.
Except as expressly provided otherwise in the particular form, the application, statement, or report shall contain all of the items of the form as well as the answers thereto. The items shall be made to stand out from the answers by variation in margin or type or by other means. All instructions shall be omitted.
[6 FR 981, Feb. 15, 1941]
§ 260.7a-17
Quality, color and size of paper.
The application, statement or report, including all amendments and, where practicable, all papers and documents filed as a part thereof, shall be on good quality, unglazed, white paper, no larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size. To the extent that the reduction of larger documents would render them illegible, such documents may be filed on paper larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size.
[47 FR 58239, Dec. 30, 1982]
§ 260.7a-18
Legibility.
(a) The application, statement or report, including all amendments and, where practicable, all papers and documents filed as a part thereof, shall be
clear, easily readable and shall be typewritten, mimeographed, printed or prepared by any similar process which, in the opinion of the Commission, produces copies suitable for repeated photocopying and microfilming.
(b) If printed, the application, statement or report shall be in type not smaller than 10-point, roman type, at least two points leaded.
(c) All printing, mimeographing, typing or other markings shall be in black ink, except that debits in credit categories and credits in debit categories may be set forth in red or black ink, but shall in all cases be designated in such manner as to be clearly distinguishable as such on photocopies.
[5 FR 293, Jan. 25, 1940, as amended at 47 FR 58239, Dec. 30, 1982]
§ 260.7a-19
Margin for binding.
The application, statement or report, including all amendments and, where practicable, all papers and documents filed as a part thereof, shall have a back or stitching margin of at least 1
1/2
inches for binding.
§ 260.7a-20
Riders; inserts.
Riders shall not be used. If the application, statement or report is typed on a printed form, and the space provided for the answer to any given item is insufficient, reference shall be made in such space to a full insert page or pages on which the item number and item shall be restated and a complete answer given.

# General Requirements as to Contents
§ 260.7a-21
Clarity.
The answer to each item of the particular form shall be so worded as to be intelligible without the necessity of referring to the instructions or to this part.
§ 260.7a-22
Information unknown or not reasonably available.
Information required shall be given insofar as it is known or can be obtained by reasonable investigation. Responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of information obtained from persons other than affiliates may be disclaimed. As to information which is unknown and is unavailable after reasonable investigation, there shall be included a statement as to the nature of the investigation.
§ 260.7a-23
Statements required where item is inapplicable or where answer is “none”.
If any item is inapplicable or the answer is “none”, a statement to such effect shall be made.
§ 260.7a-24
Words relating to periods of time in the past.
Unless the context clearly shows otherwise, wherever any fixed period of time in the past is indicated, such period shall be computed from the date of filing with the Commission.
§ 260.7a-25
Words relating to the future.
Unless the context clearly shows otherwise, whenever words relate to the future, they have reference solely to present intention.
§ 260.7a-26
Disclaimer of control.
If the existence of control is open to reasonable doubt in any instance, the applicant or the trustee, as the case may be, may disclaim the existence of control and any admission thereof; in such case, however, a statement shall be made of the material facts pertinent to the possible existence of control.
§ 260.7a-27
Title of securities.
Where the title of securities is required to be furnished in an application, statement or report, the following requirements shall be met:
(a) In the case of shares, there shall be given the full designation of the class of shares and, if not included therein, the par or stated value, if any, and the rate of dividends, if fixed, and whether cumulative or non-cumulative.
(b) In the case of funded debt, there shall be given the full designation of the issue and, if not included therein, the rate of interest and the date of maturity. If the issue matures serially, a brief indication shall be given of the serial maturities: For example, “maturing serially from 1950 to 1960”. If the
payment of interest or principal is contingent, such contingency shall be appropriately indicated. The rate of interest, however, may be omitted from the title of indenture securities on the facing page of Form T-1 and Form T-2, if the rate of interest is not determined at the time these forms are filed.
(c) In the case of other securities, a similar designation shall be given.
[5 FR 293, Jan. 25, 1940, as amended at 9 FR 750, Jan. 20, 1944]

# Incorporation by Reference
§ 260.7a-28
Incorporation of matter in application, statement or report, other than exhibits, as answer to item.
Matter contained in any part of the application, statement or report, other than exhibits, may be incorporated by reference as answer, or partial answer, to any item in the same application, statement or report.
§ 260.7a-29
Incorporation of exhibits as such.
(a) Any exhibit or part thereof previously or concurrently filed with the Commission pursuant to any Act administered by the Commission, may, subject to the limitations of § 228.10(f) and § 229.10(d) of this chapter, be incorporated by reference as an exhibit to any application, statement or report filed with the Commission by the same or any other person. Any exhibit or part thereof so filed with a trustee pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 may be incorporated by reference as an exhibit to any report filed with such trustee pursuant to section 314(a) of that Act by the same or any other person.
(b) If any modification has occurred in the text of any exhibit incorporated by reference since the filing thereof, there shall be filed with the reference a statement containing the text of any such modification and the date thereof.
(c) If the number of copies of any exhibit previously or concurrently filed is less than the number required to be filed with the application, statement or report which incorporates such exhibit, there shall be filed with the application, statement or report as many additional copies of the exhibit as may be necessary to meet the requirements of such application, statement or report.
[6 FR 667, Jan. 30, 1941, as amended at 29 FR 2421, Feb. 13, 1964; 60 FR 32825, June 23, 1995; 76 FR 71877, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 260.7a-30
Identification of material incorporated; form of incorporation.
In each case of incorporation by reference, the matter incorporated shall be clearly identified in the reference. An express statement shall be made to the effect that the specified matter is incorporated in the application, statement or report at the particular place where the information is required.
§ 260.7a-31
Incorporation by reference of contested material.
Notwithstanding any particular provision permitting incorporation by reference, no application, statement or report shall incorporate by reference any matter which is subject, at the time of filing the application, statement or report, to pending proceedings under section 8(b) or 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 (whether pursuant to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, or otherwise) or to an order entered under either of those sections.
§ 260.7a-32
Incorporation by reference rendering document incomplete, unclear, or confusing.
Notwithstanding any particular provision permitting incorporation by reference, the Commission may refuse to permit such incorporation in any case in which in its judgment such incorporation would render the application, statement or report incomplete, unclear or confusing.

# Exhibits
§ 260.7a-33
Additional exhibits.
Any application, statement or report may include exhibits in addition to those required by the particular form. Such additional exhibits shall be so marked as to indicate clearly the items to which they refer.
§ 260.7a-34
Omission of substantially identical documents.
In any case where two or more documents required to be filed as exhibits
are substantially identical in all material respects except as to the parties thereto, dates of execution or other details, a copy of only one of such documents need be filed, with a schedule identifying the documents omitted and setting forth the material details in which such documents differ from the document, a copy of which is filed:
Provided, however,
That the Commission may at any time in its discretion require the filing of copies of any documents so omitted.

# Amendments
§ 260.7a-35
Formal requirements as to amendments.
(a) Amendments to an application, statement or report shall comply with §§ 260.7a-17 to 260.7a-19.
(b) All amendments relating to a particular application, statements or report shall be numbered consecutively in the order in which they are filed with the Commission. Amendments shall be numbered separately for each separate application, statement or report.
(c) Every amendment to an item of an application, statement or report shall contain the item number, the caption and the text of the item being amended and the complete amended answer thereto.
(d) If at any time the application, statement or report becomes unclear or confusing because of the number of amendments filed or the length or complexity thereof, there may be filed, and at the written request of the Commission there shall be filed, a complete new application, statement or report, as amended, but no additional copies of exhibits need be filed.
§ 260.7a-36
Signatures to amendments.
Subject to § 260.7a-2, at least the original of every amendment to an application, statement or report shall be signed in the manner prescribed by the particular form on which the application, statement or report was filed.
[16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951]

# Inspection and Publication of Applications, Statements and Reports
§ 260.7a-37
Inspection of applications, statements and reports.
All applications, statements and reports are available for public inspection during business hours at the principal office of the Commission.
[16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951]

# Rule Under Section 310
§ 260.10a-1
Application for determining eligibility of a foreign person to act as sole trustee pursuant to section 310(a)(1) of the Act.
Form T-6 (17 CFR 269.9 of this chapter) shall be used for an application filed to obtain authorization for a corporation or other person organized and doing business under the laws of a foreign government to act as sole trustee under an indenture qualified or to be qualified under the Act.
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.10a-2
General requirements as to form and content of applications.
Rule 5a-2 (§ 260.5a-2 of this chapter) and rules 7a-15 through 7a-37 [§§ 260.7a-15 through 260.7a-37 of this chapter] under section 307 of the Act shall be applicable to applications on Form T-6 pursuant to section 310(a)(1) of the Act and Rule 10a-1 (§ 260.10a-1 of this chapter).
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.10a-3
Number of copies—Filing—Signatures.
(a) Three copies of every application pursuant to rule 10a-1 (§ 260.10a-1 of this chapter) and of every amendment thereto shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office.
(b) One copy shall be manually signed by the applicant's duly authorized officer (or individual customarily performing similar functions with respect to any organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated).
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.10a-4
Consent of trustee to service of process.
At the time of filing an application pursuant to Rule 10a-1 (§ 260.10a-1 of
this chapter) and at such time as it files a statement of eligibility to act as trustee under an indenture qualified under the Act, an indenture trustee organized and doing business under the laws of a foreign government shall furnish to the Commission on Form F-X (§ 249.250 of this chapter) a written consent of the trustee and power of attorney designating a U. S. person with an address in the United States as agent upon whom may be served any process, pleadings, subpoenas or other papers in any Commission investigation or administrative proceeding and any civil suit or action brought against the trustee or to which the trustee has been joined as defendant or respondent, in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction of any state or of the United States, or of the District of Columbia or Puerto Rico, where the investigation, proceeding or cause of action arises out of or relates to or concerns the securities in relation to which the indenture trustee proposes to act as trustee pursuant to any rule or order under section 310(a) of the Act and stipulates and agrees that any such suit, action or proceeding may be commenced by the service of process upon said agent for service of process, and that such service shall be taken and held in all courts to be as valid and binding as if due personal service thereof had been made.
[56 FR 30077, July 1, 1991]
§ 260.10a-5
Eligibility of Canadian Trustees.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, any trust company, acting as trustee under an indenture qualified or to be qualified under the Act and filed in connection with offerings on a registration statement on Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter) F-7, F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80 (§§ 239.37 through 239.41 of this chapter) that is incorporated and regulated as a trust company under the laws of Canada or any of its political subdivisions and that is subject to supervision or examination pursuant to the Trust Companies Act (Canada), R.S.C. 1985, or the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, R.S.C. 1985 shall not be subject to the requirement of domicile in the United States under section 310(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77jjj(a)).
(b) Each trustee eligible for appointment under this section (17 CFR 260.10a-5) shall file as part of the registration statement for the securities to which the trusteeship relates a consent to service of process and power of attorney on Form F-X (§ 269.5 of this chapter).
[56 FR 30077, July 1, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 36501, Aug. 13, 1992; 58 FR 33191, June 16, 1993; 73 FR 983, Jan. 4, 2008]
§ 260.10b-1
Calculation of percentages.
The percentages of voting securities and other securities specified in section 310(b) of the Act shall be calculated in accordance with the following provisions:
(a) A specified percentage of the voting securities of a person means such amount of the outstanding voting securities of such person as entitles the holder or holders thereof to cast such specified percentage of the aggregate votes which the holders of all the outstanding voting securities of such person are entitled to cast in the direction or management of the affairs of such person.
(b) A specified percentage of a class of securities of a person means such percentage of the aggregate amount of securities of the class outstanding.
(c) The term
amount,
when used in regard to securities, means the principal amount if relating to evidences of indebtedness, the number of shares if relating to capital shares, and the number of units if relating to any other kind of security.
(d) The term
outstanding
means issued and not held by or for the account of the issuer. The following securities shall not be deemed outstanding within the meaning of this definition:
(1) Securities of an issuer held in a sinking fund relating to securities of the issuer of the same class;
(2) Securities of an issuer held in a sinking fund relating to another class of securities of the issuer, if the obligation evidenced by such other class of securities is not in default as to principal or interest or otherwise;
(3) Securities pledged by the issuer thereof as security for an obligation of
the issuer not in default as to principal or interest or otherwise;
(4) Securities held in escrow is placed in escrow by the issuer otherwise;
Provided, however,
That any voting securities of an issuer shall be deemed outstanding if any person other than the issuer is entitled to exercise the voting rights thereof.
(e) A security shall be deemed to be of the same class as another security if both securities confer upon the holder or holders thereof substantially the same rights and privileges:
Provided, however,
That, in the case of secured evidences of indebtedness, all of which are issued under a single indenture, differences in the interest rates or maturity dates of various series thereof shall not be deemed sufficient to constitute such series different classes:
And, provided further,
That, in the case of unsecured evidences of indebtedness, differences in the interest rates or maturity dates thereof shall not be deemed sufficient to constitute them securities of different classes, whether or not they are issued under a single indenture.
§ 260.10b-2
Applications under section 310(b)(1)(ii).
If an application filed with the Commission pursuant to clause (ii) of section 310(b)(1) (53 Stat. 1157; 15 U.S.C. 77jjj) of the Act is based upon the claim that no material conflict of interest will be involved because prior to or concurrently with the delivery of the securities to be issued under the indenture to be qualified all securities outstanding under the other indenture or indentures, under which the person designated to act as indenture trustee is also a trustee, will be discharged or:
(a) Funds sufficient to discharge the securities will be deposited in trust for that purpose.
(b) The securities, if not presently maturing, will be called for redemption or irrevocable power to make the call will be given to some third person.
(c) All liens securing the securities will be released or all steps necessary to effect the release at the maturity or redemption date will be taken.
The application shall be deemed to have been granted unless, within 7 days after it is filed, the Commission orders a hearing thereon.
[6 FR 808, Feb. 7, 1941]
§ 260.10b-3
Applications relative to affiliations between trustees and underwriters.
(a) Any person proposing to act as trustee under indentures to be qualified under the act may make application for a finding by the Commission as to whether such person is or is not an affiliate of any specified person who may be named as an underwriter for an obligor in any registration statement or application for qualification subsequently filed with the Commission.
(b) Every application pursuant to this section shall be filed in triplicate and shall contain a statement of the material facts necessary to enable the Commission to make the finding request. The applicant may incorporate by reference in the application any information or documents contained in a statement of eligibility and qualification of the applicant filed with the Commission. The Commission may with the consent of the applicant or at the applicant's request, make a part of the record the record in any prior proceeding in which the same issues were involved.
(c) A hearing will be held, after confirmed telegraphic notice to the applicant, upon every application filed pursuant to this section.
(d) Every finding by the Commission pursuant to this section shall be limited to the facts disclosed in the application and in the hearing thereon, and shall be made solely for the purposes of sections 305(b) and 307(c) of the Act.
[6 FR 2376, May 13, 1941]
§ 260.10b-4
Application for stay of trustee's duty to resign pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act.
(a) Three copies of every application for a stay of a trustee's duty to resign under section 310(b) of the Act and of every amendment thereto shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office.
(b) One copy shall be manually signed by a duly authorized officer of the applicant (or individual customarily performing similar functions with respect
to an organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated) or by a natural person seeking a stay under section 310(b) of the Act.
(c) Such applications shall be on paper no larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size. If reduction of large documents would render them illegible, such documents may be filed on paper larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size. The left margin shall be at least 1
1/2
inches wide and if the application is bound, it shall be bound on the left side.
(d) The application shall be typed, printed, copied, or prepared by a process which produces copies suitable for repeated photocopying and microfilming. All typewritten or printed matter shall be set forth in black ink to permit photocopying. If printed, the application shall be in type not smaller than 10-point, roman type, at least two points leaded.
(e) Rules 7a-28 through 7a-32 [§§ 260.7a-28 through 260.7a-32 of this chapter] relating to incorporation by reference shall be applicable to applications for stay pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act.
[56 FR 22320, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.10b-5
Content.
(a) Each application for a stay of a trustee's duty to resign under section 310(b) of the Act shall contain the name, address, and telephone number of each applicant and the name, address, and telephone number of any person to which such applicant wishes any questions regarding the application to be directed.
(b) Each application shall contain a statement of the reasons why the applicant is deemed to be entitled to a stay of resignation with reference to the provisions of section 310(b) of the Act. The statement shall address the nature of the default, the reasonableness of the period before the default will be cured or waived, the procedures to be used to cure or obtain a waiver of the default, and the reasons why a stay will not be inconsistent with the interests of the holders of the indenture securities.
[56 FR 22321, May 15, 1991]
§ 260.10b-6
Notices—Exemptive Application Procedure.
(a) A proposed notice of the proceeding indicated by the filing of the application shall accompany each application for a stay of a trustee's duty to resign under section 310(b) as an exhibit thereto and if necessary shall be modified to reflect any amendments to such application.
(b) Notice of the initiation of the proceeding will be published in the
Federal Register
and will indicate the earliest date upon which an order disposing of the matter may be entered. The notice will also provide that any interested person may, within the period specified therein, submit to the Commission in writing any facts bearing upon the desirability of a hearing on the matter, and may request that a hearing be held stating the person's reasons therefore and the nature of his or her interest in the matter.
(c) An order disposing of the matter will be issued following the expiration of the period of time referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, unless the Commission thereafter orders a hearing on the matter.
(d) The Commission will order a hearing on the matter, if it appears that a hearing is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors:
(1) Upon the request of any interested person, or
(2) Upon its own motion.
[56 FR 22321, May 15, 1991]

# Rules Under Section 311
§ 260.11b-4
Definition of “cash transaction” in section 311(b)(4).
The term “cash transaction”, as used in section 311(b)(4), means any transaction in which full payment for goods or securities sold is made within 7 days after delivery of the goods or securities in currency or in checks or other orders drawn upon banks or bankers and payable upon demand.
§ 260.11b-6
Definition of “self-liquidating paper” in section 311(b)(6).
The term
self-liquidating paper,
as used in section 311(b)(6) of the Act, means any draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation which is made,
drawn, negotiated or incurred by the obligor for the purpose of financing the purchase, processing, manufacture, shipment, storage or sale of goods, wares or merchandise and which is secured by documents evidencing title to, possession of or a lien upon the goods, wares or merchandise or the receivables or proceeds arising from the sale of the goods, wares or merchandise previously constituting the security:
Provided,
The security is received by the trustee simultaneously with the creation of the creditor relationship with the obligor arising from the making, drawing, negotiating or incurring of the draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation.

# Rules Under Section 314

# Periodic Reports
§ 260.14a-1
Application of §§ 260.7a-15 to 260.7a-38.
Sections 260.7a-15 to 260.7a-38 shall be applicable to annual reports under section 314(a).
§ 260.19a-1
Compliance with Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act for certain eligible indenture obligors.
(a) This section is applicable only to an “eligible indenture obligor” as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, an “eligible indenture obligor” is any obligor that:
(1) Is required to file reports with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange of 1934 (15 U.S.C. §§ 78m or 78o(d)) (the “Exchange Act”); and
(2) May rely on any of the provisions of Release No. 34-45589 (March 18, 2002) (which may be viewed on the Commission's website at
www.sec.gov
) with regard to the filing of reports with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (14 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)).
(c) An “eligible indenture obligor” that files with the indenture trustee those Exchange Act reports filed with the Commission in accordance with the Release referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section has met its duty under Section 314(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77nnn(a)(1)) to file with the indenture trustee all reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
[67 FR 13538, Mar. 22, 2002, as amended at 76 FR 71877, Nov. 21, 2011]
Pt. 261

# PART 261—INTERPRETATIVE RELEASES RELATING TO THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939 AND GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS THEREUNDER
Subject
Release No.
Date
Fed. Reg. Vol. and Page
Opinion of the General Counsel relating to application of section 310(b) where trustee under one indenture is trustee under another indenture for securities of an affiliate of the obligor
16
Nov. 14, 1941
11 FR 10989.
Opinion of the Chief Counsel to the Corporation Finance Division relating to when-issued trading of securities the issuance of which is subject to approval by a Federal district court under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act
30
Aug. 28, 1944
Do.
Opinion of the Chief Counsel to the Corporation Finance Division relating to when-issued trading of securities the issuance of which has already been approved by a Federal district court under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act
31
Jan. 4, 1945
11 FR 10990.
Interpretation with reference to the securities of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
37
June 25, 1947
12 FR 4450.
Statement of the Commission to clarify the meaning of “beneficial ownership of securities” as relates to beneficial ownership of securities held by family members
227
Jan. 25, 1966
31 FR 1005.
Statement of the Commission setting the date of May 1, 1966 after which filings must reflect beneficial ownership of securities held by family members
229
Feb. 14, 1966
31 FR 3175.
Commissions statement re exemption of certain industrial revenue bonds from registration, etc. requirements in view of amendment of Securities Act of 1933 and of Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by “section 401” (Pub. L. 91-1037)
284
Nov. 6, 1970
35 FR 17990.
Publication of the Commission's procedure to be followed if requests are to be met for no action or interpretative letters and responses thereto to be made available for public use
289
Jan. 25, 1971
36 FR 2600.
Offerings of debt securities pursuant to trust indentures
524
Apr. 25, 1979
44 FR 26739.
No-action position respecting public offerings of debt securities registered on Form SB-2 without qualification of an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act
542
Oct. 16, 1979
44 FR 61941.
Simplified form of trust indenture
605
Jan. 8, 1981
46 FR 3500.
Retail repurchase agreements by banks and Savings and Loan Associations
658
Sept. 25, 1981
46 FR 48637.
Application of the registration provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 to the offer and sale of securities by United States branches and agencies of foreign banks
2038
Sept. 23, 1986
51 FR 34462.
Pt. 269

# PART 269—FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939
Sec.
269.0-1
Availability of forms.
269.1
Form T-1, for statement of eligibility and qualification for corporate trustees.
269.2
Form T-2, for statement of eligibility and qualification for individual trustees.
269.3
Form T-3, for application for qualification of trust indentures.
269.4
Form T-4, for application for exemption pursuant to section 304(c) of the Act.
269.5
Form F-X, for appointment of agent for service of process by issuers registering securities on Form F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80 (§§ 239.38, 239.39, 239.40 or 239.41 of this chapter), or registering securities or filing periodic reports on Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter), or by any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F or 14D-9F (§§ 240.13e-102, 240.14d-102 or 240.14d-103 of this chapter), or by any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7 (§ 239.37 of this chapter), F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80.
269.6
[Reserved]
269.7
Form ID, application for EDGAR access.
269.8
Form SE, form for submission of paper format exhibits by electronic filers.
269.9
Form T-6 for application under section 310(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act for determination of the eligibility of a foreign person to act as institutional trustee.
269.10
Form TH—Notification of reliance on temporary hardship exemption.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77ddd(c), 77eee, 77ggg, 77hhh, 77iii, 77jjj, 77sss, and 78ll(d), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
33 FR 19002, Dec. 20, 1968, unless otherwise noted.
§ 269.0-1
Availability of forms.
(a) This part identifies and describes the forms prescribed for use under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
(b) Any person may obtain a copy of any form prescribed for use in this part by written request to the Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. Any person may inspect the forms at this address and at the Commission's regional offices. (See § 200.11 of this chapter for the addresses of SEC regional offices.)
[46 FR 17757, Mar. 20, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 26820, June 22, 1982; 59 FR 5946, Feb. 9, 1994; 73 FR 983, Jan. 4, 2008]
§ 269.1
Form T-1, for statement of eligibility and qualification for corporate trustees.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 5a-1(a) (§ 260.5a-1(a) of this chapter) for statements of eligibility and qualification of corporations designated to act as trustees under thrust indentures to be qualified pursuant to section 305 or 307 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form T-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 269.2
Form T-2, for statement of eligibility and qualification for individual trustees.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 5a-1(b) (§ 260.5a-1(b) of this chapter) for statements of eligibility and qualification of individuals designated to act as trustees under trust indentures to be qualified pursuant to section 305 or 307 of the Trust Indenture
Act of 1939. Under sections 307, 308, 309, 310 and 319 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (17 CFR part 260), the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this form for statements of eligibility and qualification of individuals designated to act as trustees. Disclosure of the information specified in this form is mandatory before processing statements of eligibility and qualification. The information will be used for the primary purpose of determining relationships of trustees and whether there are any conflicting interests. This statement will be made a matter of public record. Therefore, any information given will be available for inspection by any member of the public. Because of the public nature of the information, the Commission can utilize it for a variety of purposes, including referral to other governmental authorities or securities self-regulatory organizations for investigatory purposes or in connection with litigation involving the Federal securities laws or other civil, criminal or regulatory statutes or provisions. Failure to disclose the information requested by this form may result in enforcement action by the Commission to compel compliance with the Federal securities laws.
[40 FR 55320, Nov. 28, 1975, as amended at 62 FR 35342, July 1, 1997]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form T-2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 269.3
Form T-3, for application for qualification of trust indentures.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 7a-1 (§ 260.7a-1 of this chapter) for applications for qualification of indentures pursuant to section 307(a) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, but only when securities to be issued thereunder are not required to be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
).

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form T-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 269.4
Form T-4, for application for exemption pursuant to section 304(c) of the Act.
This form shall be filed pursuant to Rule 4c-1 (§ 260.4c-1 of this chapter) for applications for exemption filed pursuant to section 304(c) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form T-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 269.5
Form F-X, for appointment of agent for service of process by issuers registering securities on Form F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80 (§§ 239.38, 239.39, 239.40 or 239.41 of this chapter) , or registering securities or filing periodic reports on Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter) , or by any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F or 14D-9F (§§ 240.13e-102, 240.14d-102 or 240.14d-103 of this chapter), or by any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7 (§ 239.37 of this chapter) , F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80.
Form F-X shall be filed with the Commission:
(a) By any issuer registering securities on Form F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80 under the Securities Act of 1933;
(b) By any issuer registering securities on Form 40-F under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(c) By any issuer filing a periodic report on Form 40-F, if it has not previously filed a Form F-X in connection with the class of securities in relation to which the obligation to file a report on Form 40-F arises;
(d) By any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F or 14D-9F; and
(e) By non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7, F-8, F-9, F-10 or F-80.
[56 FR 30078, July 1, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-X, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 269.6
[Reserved]
§ 269.7
Form ID, application for EDGAR access.
Form ID must be filed by electronic filers, or by their account administrators, to request EDGAR access and to authorize account administrators to manage the electronic filer's EDGAR account.
[89 FR 106223, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 269.8
Form SE, form for submission of paper format exhibits by electronic filers.
This form shall be used by an electronic filer for the submission of any paper format document relating to an otherwise electronic filing, as provided in Rule 311 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.311 of this chapter).
[58 FR 14687, Mar. 18, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SE, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 269.9
Form T-6 for application under section 310(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act for determination of the eligibility of a foreign person to act as institutional trustee.
This form shall be used for the filing of an application pursuant to rule 10a-1 [§ 260.10a-1 of this chapter] to obtain authorization for a corporation or other person organized and doing business under the laws of a foreign government to act as sole trustee under an indenture qualified or to be qualified under the Act.
[56 FR 22321, May 15, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form T-6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 269.10
Form TH—Notification of reliance on temporary hardship exemption.
Form TH shall be filed by any electronic filer who submits to the Commission, pursuant to a temporary hardship exemption, a document in paper format that otherwise would be required to be submitted electronically, as prescribed by Rule 201(a) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201(a) of this chapter).
[58 FR 14687, Mar. 18, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form TH, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 270

# PART 270—RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Sec.
270.0-1
Definition of terms used in this part.
270.0-2
General requirements of papers and applications.
270.0-3
Amendments to registration statements and reports.
270.0-4
Incorporation by reference.
270.0-5
Procedure with respect to applications and other matters.
270.0-8
Payment of filing fees.
270.0-9
[Reserved]
270.0-10
Small entities under the Investment Company Act for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
270.0-11
Customer identification programs.
270.2a-1
Valuation of portfolio securities in special cases.
270.2a-2
Effect of eliminations upon valuation of portfolio securities.
270.2a3-1
Investment company limited partners not deemed affiliated persons.
270.2a-4
Definition of “current net asset value” for use in computing periodically the current price of redeemable security.
270.2a-5
Fair value determination and readily available market quotations.
270.2a-6
Certain transactions not deemed assignments.
270.2a-7
Money market funds.
270.2a19-2
Investment company general partners not deemed interested persons.
270.2a19-3
Certain investment company directors not considered interested persons because of ownership of index fund securities.
270.2a41-1
Valuation of standby commitments by registered investment companies.
270.2a-46
Certain issuers as eligible portfolio companies.
270.2a51-1
Definition of investments for purposes of section 2(a)(51) (definition of “qualified purchaser”); certain calculations.
270.2a51-2
Definitions of beneficial owner for certain purposes under sections 2(a)(51) and 3(c)(7) and determining indirect ownership interests.
270.2a51-3
Certain companies as qualified purchasers.
270.3a-1
Certain prima facie investment companies.
270.3a-2
Transient investment companies.
270.3a-3
Certain investment companies owned by companies which are not investment companies.
270.3a-4
Status of investment advisory programs.
270.3a-5
Exemption for subsidiaries organized to finance the operations of domestic or foreign companies.
270.3a-6
Foreign banks and foreign insurance companies.
270.3a-7
Issuers of asset-backed securities.
270.3a-8
Certain research and development companies.
270.3a-9
Crowdfunding vehicle.
270.3c-1
Definition of beneficial ownership for certain section 3(c)(1) funds.
270.3c-2
Definition of beneficial ownership in small business investment companies.
270.3c-3
Definition of certain terms used in section 3(c)(1) of the Act with respect to certain debt securities offered by small business investment companies.
270.3c-4
Definition of “common trust fund” as used in section 3(c)(3) of the Act.
270.3c-5
Beneficial ownership by knowledgeable employees and certain other persons.
270.3c-6
Certain transfers of interests in section 3(c)(1) and section 3(c)(7) funds.
270.3c-7
Inflation-adjusted definition of qualifying venture capital fund.
270.5b-1
Definition of “total assets.”
270.5b-2
Exclusion of certain guarantees as securities of the guarantor.
270.5b-3
Acquisition of repurchase agreement or refunded security treated as acquisition of underlying securities.
270.6a-5
Purchase of certain debt securities by companies relying on section 6(a)(5) of the Act.
270.6b-1
Exemption of employees' securities company pending determination of application.
270.6c-3
Exemptions for certain registered variable life insurance separate accounts.
270.6c-6
Exemption for certain registered separate accounts and other persons.
270.6c-7
Exemptions from certain provisions of sections 22(e) and 27 for registered separate accounts offering variable annuity contracts to participants in the Texas Optional Retirement Program.
270.6c-8
Exemptions for registered separate accounts to impose a deferred sales load and to deduct certain administrative charges.
270.6c-10
Exemption for certain open-end management investment companies to impose deferred sales loads.
270.6c-11
Exchange-traded funds.
270.6d-1
Exemption for certain closed-end investment companies.
270.6e-2
Exemptions for certain variable life insurance separate accounts.
270.6e-3
Exemptions for flexible premium variable life insurance separate accounts.
270.7d-1
Specification of conditions and arrangements for Canadian management investment companies requesting order permitting registration.
270.7d-2
Definition of “public offering” as used in section 7(d) of the Act with respect to certain Canadian tax-deferred retirement savings accounts.
270.8b-1
Scope of §§ 270.8b-1 to 270.8b-31.
270.8b-2
Definitions.
270.8b-3
Title of securities.
270.8b-4
Interpretation of requirements.
270.8b-5
Time of filing original registration statement.
270.8b-6
[Reserved]
270.8b-10
Requirements as to proper form.
270.8b-11
Number of copies; signatures; binding.
270.8b-12
Requirements as to paper, printing and language.
270.8b-13
Preparation of registration statement or report.
270.8b-14
Riders; inserts.
270.8b-15
Amendments.
270.8b-16
Amendments to registration statement.
270.8b-20
Additional information.
270.8b-21
Information unknown or not available.
270.8b-22
Disclaimer of control.
270.8b-23—270.8b-24
[Reserved]
270.8b-25
Extension of time for furnishing information.
270.8b-30
Additional exhibits.
270.8b-31
Omission of substantially identical documents.
270.8b-32
[Reserved]
270.8f-1
Deregistration of certain registered investment companies.
270.10b-1
Definition of regular broker or dealer.
270.10e-1
Death, disqualification, or bona fide resignation of directors.
270.10f-1
Conditional exemption of certain underwriting transactions.
270.10f-2
Exercise of warrants or rights received on portfolio securities.
270.10f-3
Exemption for the acquisition of securities during the existence of an underwriting or selling syndicate.
270.11a-1
Definition of “exchange” for purposes of section 11 of the Act.
270.11a-2
Offers of exchange by certain registered separate accounts or others the terms of which do not require prior Commission approval.
270.11a-3
Offers of exchange by open-end investment companies other than separate accounts.
270.12b-1
Distribution of shares by registered open-end management investment company.
270.12d1-1
Exemptions for investments in money market funds.
270.12d1-2
[Reserved]
270.12d1-3
Exemptions for investment companies relying on section 12(d)(1)(F) of the Act.
270.12d1-4
Exemptions for investments in certain investment companies.
270.12d2-1
Definition of insurance company for purposes of sections 12(d)(2) and 12(g) of the Act.
270.12d3-1
Exemption of acquisitions of securities issued by persons engaged in securities related businesses.
270.13a-1
Exemption for change of status by temporarily diversified company.
270.14a-1
Use of notification pursuant to regulation E under the Securities Act of 1933.
270.14a-2
Exemption from section 14(a) of the Act for certain registered separate accounts and their principal underwriters.
270.14a-3
Exemption from section 14(a) of the Act for certain registered unit investment trusts and their principal underwriters.
270.15a-1
Exemption from stockholders' approval of certain small investment advisory contracts.
270.15a-2
Annual continuance of contracts.
270.15a-3
Exemption for initial period of investment adviser of certain registered separate accounts from requirement of security holder approval of investment advisory contract.
270.15a-4
Temporary exemption for certain investment advisers.
270.16a-1
Exemption for initial period of directors of certain registered accounts from requirements of election by security holders.
270.17a-1
Exemption of certain underwriting transactions exempted by § 270.10f-1.
270.17a-2
Exemption of certain purchase, sale, or borrowing transactions.
270.17a-3
Exemption of transactions with fully owned subsidiaries.
270.17a-4
Exemption of transactions pursuant to certain contracts.
270.17a-5
Pro rata distribution neither “sale” nor “purchase.”
270.17a-6
Exemption for transactions with portfolio affiliates.
270.17a-7
Exemption of certain purchase or sale transactions between an investment company and certain affiliated persons thereof.
270.17a-8
Mergers of affiliated companies.
270.17a-9
Purchase of certain securities from a money market fund by an affiliate, or an affiliate of an affiliate.
270.17a-10
Exemption for transactions with certain subadvisory affiliates.
270.17d-1
Applications regarding joint enterprises or arrangements and certain profit-sharing plans.
270.17d-2
Form for report by small business investment company and affiliated bank.
270.17d-3
Exemption relating to certain joint enterprises or arrangements concerning payment for distribution of shares of a registered open-end management investment company.
270.17e-1
Brokerage transactions on a securities exchange.
270.17f-1
Custody of securities with members of national securities exchanges.
270.17f-2
Custody of investments by registered management investment company.
270.17f-3
Free cash accounts for investment companies with bank custodians.
270.17f-4
Custody of investment company assets with a securities depository.
270.17f-5
Custody of investment company assets outside the United States.
270.17f-6
Custody of investment company assets with Futures Commission Merchants and Commodity Clearing Organizations.
270.17f-7
Custody of investment company assets with a foreign securities depository.
270.17g-1
Bonding of officers and employees of registered management investment companies.
270.17j-1
Personal investment activities of investment company personnel.
270.18c-1
Exemption of privately held indebtedness.
270.18c-2
Exemptions of certain debentures issued by small business investment companies.
270.18f-1
Exemption from certain requirements of section 18(f)(1) (of the Act) for registered open-end investment companies which have the right to redeem in kind.
270.18f-2
Fair and equitable treatment for holders of each class or series of stock of series investment companies.
270.18f-3
Multiple class companies.
270.18f-4
Exemption from the requirements of section 18 and section 61 for certain senior securities transactions.
270.19a-1
Written statement to accompany dividend payments by management companies.
270.19b-1
Frequency of distribution of capital gains.
270.20a-1
Solicitation of proxies, consents and authorizations.
270.20a-2—270.20a-4
[Reserved]
270.22c-1
Pricing of redeemable securities for distribution, redemption and repurchase.
270.22c-2
Redemption fees for redeemable securities.
270.22d-1
Exemption from section 22(d) to permit sales of redeemable securities at prices which reflect sales loads set pursuant to a schedule.
270.22d-2
Exemption from section 22(d) for certain registered separate accounts.
270.22e-1
Exemption from section 22(e) of the Act during annuity payment period of variable annuity contracts participating in certain registered separate accounts.
270.22e-2
Pricing of redemption requests in accordance with Rule 22c-1.
270.22e-3
Exemption for liquidation of money market funds.
270.22e-4
Liquidity risk management programs.
270.23c-1
Repurchase of securities by closed-end companies.
270.23c-2
Call and redemption of securities issued by registered closed-end companies.
270.23c-3
Repurchase offers by closed-end companies.
270.24b-1
Definitions.
270.24b-2
Filing copies of sales literature.
270.24b-3
Sales literature deemed filed.
270.24b-4
Filing copies of covered investment fund research reports.
270.24e-1
Filing of certain prospectuses as post-effective amendments to registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933.
270.24f-2
Registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of certain investment company securities.
270.26a-1
Payment of administrative fees to the depositor or principal underwriter of a unit investment trust; exemptive relief for separate accounts.
270.26a-2
Exemptions from certain provisions of sections 26 and 27 for registered separate accounts and others regarding custodianship of and deduction of certain fees and charges from the assets of such accounts.
270.27c-1
[Reserved]
270.27d-1
Reserve requirements for principal underwriters and depositors to carry out the obligations to refund charges required by section 27(d) and section 27(f) of the Act.
270.27d-2
[Reserved]
270.27e-1
[Reserved]
270.27f-1
[Reserved]
270.27g-1
[Reserved]
270.27h-1
[Reserved]
270.27i-1
Exemption from Section 27(i)(2)(A) of the Act during annuity payment period of variable annuity contracts participating in certain registered separate accounts.
270.28b-1
Investment in loans partially or wholly guaranteed under the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended.
270.30a-1
Annual report for registered investment companies.
270.30a-2
Certification of Form N-CSR.
270.30a-3
Controls and procedures.
270.30a-4
Annual report for wholly-owned registered management investment company subsidiary of registered management investment company.
270.30b1-1—270.30b1-3
[Reserved]
270.30b1-4
Report of proxy voting record.
270.30b1-5
[Reserved]
270.30b1-7
Monthly report for money market funds.
270.30b1-8
Current report for money market funds.
270.30b1-9
Monthly report.
270.30b1-9(T)
Temporary rule regarding monthly report.
270.30b1-10
Current report for open-end and closed-end management investment companies.
270.30b2-1
Filing of reports to stockholders.
270.30d-1
Filing of copies of reports to shareholders.
270.30e-1
Reports to stockholders of management companies.
270.30e-2
Reports to shareholders of unit investment trusts.
270.30e-3
Internet availability of reports to shareholders.
270.30h-1
Applicability of section 16 of the Exchange Act to section 30(h).
270.31a-1
Records to be maintained by registered investment companies, certain majority-owned subsidiaries thereof, and other persons having transactions with registered investment companies.
270.31a-2
Records to be preserved by registered investment companies, certain majority-owned subsidiaries thereof, and other persons having transactions with registered investment companies.
270.31a-3
Records prepared or maintained by other than person required to maintain and preserve them.
270.31a-4
Records to be maintained and preserved by registered investment companies relating to fair value determinations.
270.32a-1
Exemption of certain companies from affiliation provisions of section 32(a).
270.32a-2
Exemption for initial period from vote of security holders on independent public accountant for certain registered separate accounts.
270.32a-3
Exemption from provision of section 32(a)(1) regarding the time period during which a registered management investment company must select an independent public accountant.
270.32a-4
Independent audit committees.
270.34b-1
Sales literature deemed to be misleading.
270.35d-1
Investment company names.
270.38a-1
Compliance procedures and practices of certain investment companies.
270.45a-1
Confidential treatment of names and addresses of dealers of registered investment company securities.
270.55a-1
Investment activities of business development companies.
270.57b-1
Exemption for downstream affiliates of business development companies.
270.60a-1
Exemption for certain business development companies.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.,
80a-34(d), 80a-37, 80a-39, 1681w(a)(1), 6801-6809, 6825, and Pub. L. 111-203, sec. 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010), unless otherwise noted.
Section 270.0-1 also issued under sec. 38(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a));
Section 270.0-1(a)(7) is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-10(e);
Section 270.0-11 also issued under secs. 8, 24, 30 and 38, Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8, 80a-24, 80a-29 and 80a-37), secs. 6, 7, 8, 10 and 19(a), Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a)) and secs. 3(b), 12, 13, 14, 15(d) and 23(a), Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(b), 78l, 78m, 78n, 78o(d) and 78w(a));
Section 270.6a-5 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(a)(5)(A)(iv)(I).
Section 270.6c-9 is also issued under secs. 6(c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c)) and 38(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a));
Section 270.6c-10 is also issued under sec. 6(c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c));
Section 270.6c-11 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c) and 80a-37(a).
Section 270.6e-3 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-5(e);
Section 270.8b-11 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 77s, 80a-8, and 80a-37;
Section 270.10e-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-10(e);
Sections 270.12d1-1, 270.12d1-2, and 270.12d1-3 are also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-12(d)(1)(J), and 80a-37(a).
Section 270.12d3-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c);
Section 270.17a-8 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c) and 80a-37(a);
Section 270.17d-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-17(d), and 80a-37(a);
Section 270.17e-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-30(a), and 80a-37(a);
Section 270.17f-5 also issued under sec. 6(c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c);
Section 270.17g-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-17(d), 80a-17(g), and 80a-37(a);
Section 270.17j-1 is also issued under secs. 206(4) and 211(a), Investment Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(4) and 80b-11(a));
Section 270.19b-1 is also issued under secs. 6(c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c)), 19 (a) and (b) (15 U.S.C 80a-19 (a) and (b)), and 38(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a));
Section 270.22c-1 also issued under secs. 6(c), 22(c), and 38(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-22(c), and 80a-37(a));
Section 270.23c-3 also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-23(c).
Section 270.24f-2 also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-24(f)(4).
Section 270.30a-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d), 80a-8, and 80a-29.
Section 270.30a-2 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d), 80a-8, 80a-29, 7202, and 7241; and 18 U.S.C. 1350, unless otherwise noted.
Section 270.30a-3 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d), 80a-8, and 80a-29, and secs. 3(a) and 302, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745.
Section 270.30b1-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d), 80a-8, and 80a-29.
Section 270.30b2-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d), 80a-8, and 80a-29, and secs. 3(a) and 302, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745.
Section 270.30d-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d), 80a-8, and 80a-29, and secs. 3(a) and 302, Pub. L. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745.
Section 270.30e-1 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 78
l,
78m, 78n, 78o(d), 78w(a), 80a-8, 80a-29, and 80a-37;
Section 270.31a-2 is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 80a-30.

# ATTENTION ELECTRONIC FILERS
THIS REGULATION SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH REGULATION S-T (PART 232 OF THIS CHAPTER), WHICH GOVERNS THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT. MANY PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS IN PAPER FORMAT CONTAINED IN THIS REGULATION ARE SUPERSEDED BY THE PROVISIONS OF REGULATION S-T FOR DOCUMENTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT.
§ 270.0-1
Definition of terms used in this part.
(a) As used in the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) The term
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(2) The term
act
means the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(3) The term
section
refers to a section of the act.
(4) The terms
rule
and
regulations
refer to the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission pursuant to the Act, including the forms for registration and reports and the accompanying instructions thereto.
(5) The term
administrator
means any person who provides significant administrative or business affairs management services to an investment company.
(6)(i) A person is an
independent legal counsel
with respect to the directors who are not interested persons of an investment company (“disinterested directors”) if:
(A) A majority of the disinterested directors reasonably determine in the exercise of their judgment (and record the basis for that determination in the minutes of their meeting) that any representation by the person of the company's investment adviser, principal underwriter, administrator (“management organizations”), or any of their control persons, since the beginning of the fund's last two completed fiscal years, is or was sufficiently limited that it is unlikely to adversely affect the professional judgment of the person in providing legal representation to the disinterested directors; and
(B) The disinterested directors have obtained an undertaking from such person to provide them with information necessary to make their determination and to update promptly that information when the person begins to represent, or materially increases his representation of, a management organization or control person.
(ii) The disinterested directors are entitled to rely on the information obtained from the person, unless they know or have reason to believe that the information is materially false or incomplete. The disinterested directors must re-evaluate their determination no less frequently than annually (and record the basis accordingly), except as provided in paragraph (iii) of this section.
(iii) After the disinterested directors obtain information that the person has begun to represent, or has materially increased his representation of, a management organization (or any of its control persons), the person may continue to be an independent legal counsel, for purposes of paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, for no longer than three months unless during that period the disinterested directors make a new determination under that paragraph.
(iv) For purposes of paragraphs (a)(6)(i)-(iii) of this section:
(A) The term
person
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(28) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(28)) and, in addition, includes a partner, co-member, or employee of any person; and
(B) The term
control person
means any person (other than an investment company) directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the investment company's management organizations.
(7)
Fund governance standards.
The board of directors of an investment company (“fund”) satisfies the
fund governance standards
if:
(i) At least seventy-five percent of the directors of the fund are not interested persons of the fund (“disinterested directors”) or, if the fund has three directors, all but one are disinterested directors;
(ii) The disinterested directors of the fund select and nominate any other disinterested director of the fund;
(iii) Any person who acts as legal counsel for the disinterested directors of the fund is an independent legal counsel as defined in paragraph (a)(6) of this section;
(iv) A disinterested director serves as chairman of the board of directors of the fund, presides over meetings of the board of directors and has substantially the same responsibilities as would a chairman of a board of directors;
(v) The board of directors evaluates at least once annually the performance of the board of directors and the committees of the board of directors, which evaluation must include a consideration of the effectiveness of the committee structure of the fund board and the number of funds on whose boards each director serves;
(vi) The disinterested directors meet at least once quarterly in a session at which no directors who are interested persons of the fund are present; and
(vii) The disinterested directors have been authorized to hire employees and to retain advisers and experts necessary to carry out their duties.
(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided, the terms used in the rules and regulations in this part shall have the meaning defined in the Act. The terms “EDGAR,” “EDGAR Filer Manual,” “electronic filer,” “electronic filing,”
“electronic format,” “electronic submission,” “paper format,” and “signature” shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in Regulation S-T—General Rules for Electronic Filings (Part 232 of this chapter).
(c) A rule or regulation which defines a term without express reference to the act or to the rules and regulations, or to a portion thereof, defines such terms for all purposes as used both in the act and in the rules and regulations in this part, unless the context otherwise requires.
(d) Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, the term “prospectus” means a prospectus meeting the requirements of section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended.
(e) Definition of separate account and conditions for availability of exemption under §§ 270.6c-6, 270.6c-7, 270.6c-8, 270.11a-2, 270.14a-2, 270.15a-3, 270.16a-1, 270.22c-1, 270.22d-2, 270.22e-1, 270.26a-1, 270.27i-1, and 270.32a-2 (Rules 6c-6, 6c-7, 6c-8, 11a-2, 14a-2, 15a-3, 16a-1, 22c-1, 22d-2, 22e-1, 26a-1, 27i-1, and 32a-2).
(1) As used in the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, the term “separate account” shall mean an account established and maintained by an insurance company pursuant to the laws of any state or territory of the United States, or of Canada or any province thereof, under which income, gains and losses, whether or not realized, from assets allocated to such account, are, in accordance with the applicable contract, credited to or charged against such account without regard to other income, gains or losses of the insurance company and the term “variable annuity contract” shall mean any accumulation or annuity contract, any portion thereof, or any unit of interest or participation therein pursuant to which the value of the contract, either prior or subsequent to annuitization, or both, varies according to the investment experience of the separate account in which the contract participates.
(2) As conditions to the availability of exemptive Rules 6c-6, 6c-7, 6c-8, 11a-2, 14a-2, 15a-3, 16a-1, 22c-1, 22d-2, 22e-1, 26a-1, 27i-1, and 32a-2, the separate account shall be legally segregated, the assets of the separate account shall, at the time during the year that adjustments in the reserves are made, have a value at least equal to the reserves and other contract liabilities with respect to such account, and at all other times, shall have a value approximately equal to or in excess of such reserves and liabilities; and that portion of such assets having a value equal to, or approximately equal to, such reserves and contract liabilities shall not be chargeable with liabilities arising out of any other business which the insurance company may conduct.
[Rule N-1, 5 FR 4316, Oct. 31, 1940, as amended at 19 FR 6730, Oct. 20, 1954; 30 FR 829, Jan. 27, 1965; 48 FR 36098, Aug. 9, 1983; 50 FR 42682, Oct. 22, 1985; 58 FR 14859, Mar. 18, 1993; 66 FR 3757, Jan. 16, 2001; 69 FR 46389, Aug. 2, 2004; 85 FR 26101, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.0-2
General requirements of papers and applications.
(a)
Filing of papers.
All papers required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the Act or the rules and regulations thereunder shall, unless otherwise provided by the rules and regulations in this part, be delivered through the mails or otherwise to the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, DC 20549. Except as otherwise provided by the rules and regulations, the date on which papers are actually received by the Commission shall be the date of filing thereof. If the last day for the timely filing of such papers falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, such papers may be filed on the first business day following.
(b)
Formal specifications respecting applications.
Every application for an order under any provision of the Act, for which a form with instructions is not specifically prescribed, and every amendment to such application shall be filed in quintuplicate. One copy shall be signed by the applicant but the other four copies may have facsimile or typed signatures. Such applications should be on paper no larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size. To the extent that the reduction of larger documents would render them illegible, such documents may be filed on paper larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size. The left margin
should be at least 1
1/2
inches wide and, if the application is bound, it should be bound on the left side. All typewritten or printed matter (including deficits in financial statements) should be set forth in black so as to permit photocopying.
(c)
Authorizations respecting applications.
(1) Every application for an order under any provision of the act, for which a form with instructions is not specifically prescribed and which is executed by a corporation, partnership, or other company and filed with the Commission, shall contain a concise statement of the applicable provisions of the articles of incorporation, bylaws, or similar documents, relating to the right of the person signing and filing such application to take such action on behalf of the applicant, and a statement that all such requirements have been complied with and that the person signing and filing the same is fully authorized to do so. If such authorization is dependent on resolutions of stockholders, directors, or other bodies, such resolutions shall be attached as an exhibit to, or the pertinent provisions thereof shall be quoted in, the application.
(2) If an amendment to any such application shall be filed, such amendment shall contain a similar statement or, in lieu thereof, shall state that the authorization described in the original application is applicable to the individual who signs such amendment and that such authorization still remains in effect.
(3) When any such application or amendment is signed by an agent or attorney, the power of attorney evidencing his authority to sign shall contain similar statements and shall be filed with the Commission.
(d)
Verification of applications and statements of fact.
Every application for an order under any provision of the Act, for which a form with instructions is not specifically prescribed and every amendment to such application, and every statement of fact formally filed in support of, or in opposition to, any application or declaration shall be verified by the person executing the same. An instrument executed on behalf of a corporation shall be verified in substantially the following form, but suitable changes may be made in such form for other kinds of companies and for individuals:
The undersigned states that he or she has duly executed the attached ____________ dated ____________, 20 ______ for and on behalf of (
name of company
); that he or she is (
title of officer
) of such company; and that all action by stockholders, directors, and other bodies necessary to authorize the undersigned to execute and file such instrument has been taken. The undersigned further states that he or she is familiar with such instrument, and the contents thereof, and that the facts therein set forth are true to the best of his or her knowledge, information and belief.
(Signature)
(e)
Statement of grounds for application.
Each application should contain a brief statement of the reasons why the applicant is deemed to be entitled to the action requested with a reference to the provisions of the act and of the rules and regulations under which application is made.
(f)
Name and address.
Every application shall contain the name and address of each applicant and the name and address of any person to whom any applicant wishes any question regarding the application to be directed.
(g) The manually signed original (or in the case of duplicate originals, one duplicate original) of all registrations, applications, statements, reports, or other documents filed under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, shall be numbered sequentially (in addition to any internal numbering which otherwise may be present) by handwritten, typed, printed, or other legible form of notation from the facing page of the document through the last page of that document and any exhibits or attachments thereto. Further, the total number of pages contained in a numbered original shall be set forth on the first page of the document.
[Rule N-2, 5 FR 4316, Oct. 31, 1940, as amended at 33 FR 9391, June 27, 1968; 33 FR 23325, Aug. 29, 1973; 44 FR 4666, Jan. 23, 1979; 47 FR 58239, Dec. 30, 1982; 48 FR 17065, Apr. 21, 1983; 58 FR 14859, Mar. 18, 1993; 73 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2008; 87 FR 38976, June 30, 2022; 87 FR 41060, July 11, 2022]
§ 270.0-3
Amendments to registration statements and reports.
Registration statements filed with the Commission pursuant to section 8 (54 Stat. 803; 15 U.S.C. 80a-8) and reports filed with the Commission pursuant to section 30 (54 Stat. 836; 15 U.S.C. 80a-35) may be amended in the following manner:
(a) Each amendment shall conform to the requirements for the registration statement or report it amends with regard to filing, number of copies filed, size, paper, ink, margins, binding, and similar formal matters.
(b) Each amendment to a particular statement or report shall have a facing sheet as follows:

# Securities and Exchange Commission

# Washington, DC 20549
Amendment No.__________

# to
Form____________
File No.____________
(Describe the nature of the statement or report)
Dated ____________________, 19____,
Pursuant to Section __________ of the Investment Company Act of 1940
Name of Registrant
Address of Principal Office of Registrant
The facing sheet shall contain in addition any other information required on the facing sheet of the form for the statement or report which is being amended. Amendments to a particular statement or report which is being consecutively in the order in which filed with the Commission.
(c) Each amendment shall contain in the manner required in the original statement or report the text of every item to which it relates and shall set out a complete amended answer to each such item. However, amendments to financial statements may contain only the particular statements or schedules in fact amended.
(d) Each amendment shall have a signature sheet containing the form of signature required in the statement or report it amends.
(Secs. 8, 30, 54 Stat. 803, 74 Stat. 201; 15 U.S.C. 80a-8, 80a-29)
[Rule N-3, 6 FR 3966, Aug. 8, 1941, as amended at 33 FR 3217, Feb. 21, 1968]
§ 270.0-4
Incorporation by reference.
(a)
Registration statements and reports.
Except as provided by this section or in the appropriate form, information may be incorporated by reference in answer, or partial answer, to any item of a registration statement or report. Where an item requires a summary or outline of the provisions of any document, the summary or outline may incorporate by reference particular items, sections, or paragraphs of any exhibit and may be qualified in its entirety by such reference.
(b)
Financial information.
Except as provided in the Commission's rules, financial information required to be given in comparative form for two or more fiscal years or periods must not be incorporated by reference unless the information incorporated by reference includes the entire period for which the comparative data is given. In the financial statements, incorporating by reference, or cross-referencing to, information outside of the financial statements is not permitted unless otherwise specifically permitted or required by the Commission's rules or by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, whichever is applicable.
(c)
Exhibits.
Any document or part thereof, including any financial statement or part thereof, filed with the Commission pursuant to any Act administered by the Commission may be incorporated by reference as an exhibit to any registration statement, application, or report filed with the Commission by the same or any other person. If any modification has occurred in the text of any document incorporated by reference since the filing thereof, the registrant must file with the reference a statement containing the text of any such modification and the date thereof.
(d)
Hyperlinks.
Include an active hyperlink to information incorporated
into a registration statement, application, or report by reference if such information is publicly available on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) at the time the registration statement, application, or report is filed. For hyperlinking to exhibits, please refer to the appropriate form.
(e)
General.
Include an express statement clearly describing the specific location of the information you are incorporating by reference. The statement must identify the document where the information was originally filed or submitted and the location of the information within that document. The statement must be made at the particular place where the information is required, if applicable. Information must not be incorporated by reference in any case where such incorporation would render the disclosure incomplete, unclear, or confusing. For example, unless expressly permitted or required, disclosure must not be incorporated by reference from a second document if that second document incorporates information pertinent to such disclosure by reference to a third document.
[84 FR 12732, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 270.0-5
Procedure with respect to applications and other matters.
The procedure herein below set forth will be followed with respect to any proceeding initiated by the filing of an application, or upon the Commission's own motion, pursuant to any section of the Act or any rule or regulation thereunder, unless in the particular case a different procedure is provided:
(a) Notice of the initiation of the proceeding will be published in the
Federal Register
and will indicate the earliest date upon which an order disposing of the matter may be entered. The notice will also provide that any interested person may, within the period of time specified therein, submit to the Commission in writing any facts bearing upon the desirability of a hearing on the matter and may request that a hearing be held, stating his reasons therefor and the nature of his interest in the matter.
(b) An order disposing of the matter will be issued as of course, following the expiration of the period of time referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the Commission thereafter orders a hearing on the matter.
(c) The Commission will order a hearing on the matter, if it appears that a hearing is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors, (1) upon the request of an interested person or (2) upon its own motion.
(d)(1) An applicant may request expedited review of an application if such application is substantially identical to two other applications for which an order granting the requested relief has been issued within three years of the date of the application's initial filing.
(2) For purposes of this section, “substantially identical” applications are applications requesting relief from the same sections of the Act and this part, containing identical terms and conditions, and differing only with respect to factual differences that are not material to the relief requested.
(e) An application submitted for expedited review must include:
(1) A notation on the cover page of the application that states prominently, “EXPEDITED REVIEW REQUESTED UNDER 17 CFR 270.0-5(d)”;
(2) Exhibits with marked copies of the application showing changes from the final versions of the two applications identified as substantially identical under paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and
(3) An accompanying cover letter, signed, on behalf of the applicant, by the person executing the application:
(i) Identifying two substantially identical applications and explaining why the applicant chose those particular applications, and if more recent applications of the same type have been approved, why the applications chosen, rather than the more recent applications, are appropriate; and
(ii) Certifying that the applicant believes the application meets the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section and that the marked copies required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section are complete and accurate.
(f)(1) No later than 45 days from the date of filing of an application for which expedited review is requested:
(i) Notice of an application will be issued in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; or
(ii) The applicant will be notified that the application is not eligible for expedited review because it does not meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section or because additional time is necessary for appropriate consideration of the application.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section:
(i) The 45-day period will stop running upon:
(A) Any request for modification of an application and will resume running on the 14th day after the applicant has filed an amended application responsive to such request, including a marked copy showing any changes made and a certification signed by the person executing the application that such marked copy is complete and accurate;
(B) Any unsolicited amendment of the application and will resume running on the 30th day after such an amendment, provided that the amendment includes a marked copy showing changes made and a certification signed by the person executing the application that such marked copy is complete and accurate; and
(C) Any irregular closure of the Commission's Washington, DC office to the public for normal business, including, but not limited to, closure due to a lapse in Federal appropriations, national emergency, inclement weather, or ad hoc Federal holiday, and will resume upon the reopening of the Commission's Washington, DC office to the public for normal business.
(ii) If the applicant does not file an amendment responsive to any request for modification within 30 days of receiving such request, including a marked copy showing any changes made and a certification signed by the person executing the application that such marked copy is complete and accurate, the application will be deemed withdrawn.
(g) If an applicant has not responded in writing to any request for clarification or modification of an application filed under this section, other than an application that is under expedited review under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, within 120 days after the request, the application will be deemed withdrawn.
[38 FR 23325, Aug. 29, 1973, as amended at 61 FR 49961, Sept. 24, 1996; 86 FR 57107, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 270.0-8
Payment of filing fees.
All payment of filing fees shall be made by wire transfer, debit card, credit card, or via the Automated Clearing House Network. Payment of filing fees required by this section shall be made in accordance with the directions set forth in § 202.3a of this chapter.
[86 FR 70262, Dec. 9, 2021]
§ 270.0-9
[Reserved]
§ 270.0-10
Small entities under the Investment Company Act for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
(a)
General.
For purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with the provisions of Chapter Six of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) and unless otherwise defined for purposes of a particular rulemaking, the term
small business
or
small organization
for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 shall mean an investment company that, together with other investment companies in the same group of related investment companies, has net assets of $50 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year. For purposes of this section:
(1) In the case of a management company, the term
group of related investment companies
shall mean two or more management companies (including series thereof) that:
(i) Hold themselves out to investors as related companies for purposes of investment and investor services; and
(ii) Either:
(A) Have a common investment adviser or have investment advisers that are affiliated persons of each other; or
(B) Have a common administrator; and
(2) In the case of a unit investment trust, the term
group of related investment companies
shall mean two or more unit investment trusts (including series thereof) that have a common sponsor.
(b)
Special rule for insurance company separate accounts.
In determining whether an insurance company separate account is a
small business
or
small entity
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the assets of the separate account shall be cumulated with the assets of the general account and all other separate accounts of the insurance company.
(c)
Determination of net assets.
The Commission may calculate its determination of the net assets of a group of related investment companies based on the net assets of each investment company in the group as of the end of such company's fiscal year.
[63 FR 35514, June 30, 1998]
§ 270.0-11
Customer identification programs.
Each registered open-end company is subject to the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) and the implementing regulation at 31 CFR 103.131, which requires a customer identification program to be implemented as part of the anti-money laundering program required under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and the implementing regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR part 103. Where 31 CFR 103.131 and this chapter use different definitions for the same term, the definition in 31 CFR 103.131 shall be used for the purpose of compliance with 31 CFR 103.131. Where 31 CFR 103.131 and this chapter require the same records to be preserved for different periods of time, such records shall be preserved for the longer period of time.
[68 FR 25146, May 9, 2003]
§ 270.2a-1
Valuation of portfolio securities in special cases.
(a) Any investment company whose securities are qualified for sale, or for whose securities application for such qualification has been made, in any State in which the securities owned by such company are required by applicable State law or regulations to be valued at cost or on some other basis different from that prescribed by clause (A) of section 2(a)(41) of the Act for the purpose of determining the percentage of its assets invested in any particular type or classification of securities or in the securities of any one issuer, may, in valuing its securities for the purposes of sections 5 and 12 of the Act, use the same basis of valuation as that used in complying with such State law or regulations in lieu of the method of valuation prescribed by clause (A) of section 2(a)(41) of the Act.
(b) Any open-end company which has heretofore valued its securities at cost for the purpose of qualifying as a “mutual investment company” under the Internal Revenue Code, prior to its amendment by the Revenue Act of 1942, shall henceforth, for the purposes of sections 5 and 12 of the Act, value its securities in accordance with the method prescribed in clause (A) of section 2(a)(41) of the Act unless such company is permitted under paragraph (a) of this section to use a different method of valuation.
(c) A registered investment company which has adopted for the purposes of sections 5 and 12 of the Act a method of valuation permitted by paragraph (a) of this section, shall state in its registration statement filed pursuant to section 8 (54 Stat. 803; 15 U.S.C. 80a-8) of the Act, or in a report filed pursuant to section 30 (54 Stat. 836; 15 U.S.C. 80a-30) of the Act, the method of valuation adopted and the facts which justify the adoption of such method. A registered investment company which has adopted for the purposes of sections 5 and 12 of the Act a method of valuation permitted by paragraph (a) of this section, unless it shall have adopted such method for the purpose or partly for the purpose of qualifying as a “mutual investment company” under the Internal Revenue Code, shall continue to use that method until it has notified the Commission of its desire to use a different method, and has received from the Commission permission for such change. Such permission may be made effective on a fixed date or within such reasonable time thereafter as may be deemed advisable under the circumstances.
(d) If at any time it appears that the method of valuation adopted by any company pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section is no longer justified by the facts, the Commission may require a change in the method of valuation
within a reasonable period of time either to the method prescribed in clause (A) of section 2(a)(41) of the Act or to some other method permitted by paragraph (a) of this section which is justified by the existing facts.
[Rule N-2A-1, 8 FR 3567, Mar. 24, 1943, as amended at 38 FR 8593, Apr. 4, 1973]
§ 270.2a-2
Effect of eliminations upon valuation of portfolio securities.
During any fiscal quarter in which elimination of securities from the portfolio of an investment company occur, the securities remaining in the portfolio shall, for the purpose of sections 5 and 12 of the Act (54 Stat. 800, 808; 15 U.S.C. 80a-5, 80a-12), be so valued as to give effect to the eliminations in accordance with one of the following methods:
(a) Specific certificate,
(b) First in—first out,
(c) Last in—first out, or
(d) Average value.
For these purposes, a single method of elimination shall be used consistently with respect to all portfolio securities. In giving effect to eliminations pursuant to this section values shall be computed in accordance with section 2(a)(41)(A) of the Act (54 Stat. 790; 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(41)(A)).
[38 FR 8593, Apr. 4, 1973]
§ 270.2a3-1
Investment company limited partners not deemed affiliated persons.

# Preliminary Note to § 270.2
a

# 3-1:
This § 270.2a3-1 excepts from the definition of affiliated person in section 2(a)(3)) (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(3)) those limited partners of investment companies organized in limited partnership form that are affiliated persons solely because they are partners under section 2(a)(3)(D) (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(3)(D)). Reliance on this § 270.2a3-1 does not except a limited partner that is an affiliated person by virtue of any other provision.
No limited partner of a registered management company or a business development company, organized as a limited partnership and relying on § 270.2a19-2, shall be deemed to be an affiliated person of such company, or any other partner of such company, solely by reason of being a limited partner of such company.
[58 FR 45838, Aug. 31, 1993]
§ 270.2a-4
Definition of “current net asset value” for use in computing periodically the current price of redeemable security.
(a) The current net asset value of any redeemable security issued by a registered investment company used in computing periodically the current price for the purpose of distribution, redemption, and repurchase means an amount which reflects calculations, whether or not recorded in the books of account, made substantially in accordance with the following, with estimates used where necessary or appropriate.
(1) Portfolio securities with respect to which market quotations are readily available shall be valued at current market value, and other securities and assets shall be valued at fair value as determined in good faith by the board of directors of the registered company.
(2) Changes in holdings of portfolio securities shall be reflected no later than in the first calculation on the first business day following the trade date.
(3) Changes in the number of outstanding shares of the registered company resulting from distributions, redemptions, and repurchases shall be reflected no later than in the first calculation on the first business day following such change.
(4) Expenses, including any investment advisory fees, shall be included to date of calculation. Appropriate provision shall be made for Federal income taxes if required. Investment companies which retain realized capital gains designated as a distribution to shareholders shall comply with paragraph (h) of § 210.6-03 of Regulation S-X.
(5) Dividends receivable shall be included to date of calculation either at ex-dividend dates or record dates, as appropriate.
(6) Interest income and other income shall be included to date of calculation.
(b) The items which would otherwise be required to be reflected by paragraphs (a) (4) and (6) of this section need not be so reflected if cumulatively, when netted, they do not amount to as much as one cent per outstanding share.
(c) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, any interim determination of current
net asset value between calculations made as of the close of the New York Stock Exchange on the preceding business day and the current business day may be estimated so as to reflect any change in current net asset value since the closing calculation on the preceding business day.
(Secs. 7, 19(a), 48 Stat. 78, 85, 908, 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77s(a); secs. 12, 13, 15(d), 23(a), 48 Stat. 892, 894, 895, 901; secs. 3, 8, 49 Stat. 1377, 1379, secs. 3, 4, 78 Stat. 569, 570, secs. 1, 2, 82 Stat. 454, 15 U.S.C. 78l, 78m, 78o(d), 78w(a); secs. 8, 22, 30, 31(c), 38(a), 54 Stat. 803, 823, 836, 838, 841, 15 U.S.C. 80a-8, 80a-22, 80a-29, 80a-30(c))
[29 FR 19101, Dec. 30, 1964, as amended at 35 FR 314, Jan. 8, 1970; 47 FR 56844, Dec. 21, 1982]
§ 270.2a-5
Fair value determination and readily available market quotations.
(a)
Fair value determination.
For purposes of section 2(a)(41) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(41)) and § 270.2a-4, determining fair value in good faith with respect to a fund requires:
(1)
Assess and manage risks.
Periodically assessing any material risks associated with the determination of the fair value of fund investments (“valuation risks”), including material conflicts of interest, and managing those identified valuation risks;
(2)
Establish and apply fair value methodologies.
Performing each of the following, taking into account the fund's valuation risks:
(i) Selecting and applying in a consistent manner an appropriate methodology or methodologies for determining (and calculating) the fair value of fund investments, provided that a selected methodology may be changed if a different methodology is equally or more representative of the fair value of fund investments, including specifying the key inputs and assumptions specific to each asset class or portfolio holding;
(ii) Periodically reviewing the appropriateness and accuracy of the methodologies selected and making any necessary changes or adjustments thereto; and
(iii) Monitoring for circumstances that may necessitate the use of fair value;
(3)
Test fair value methodologies.
Testing the appropriateness and accuracy of the fair value methodologies that have been selected, including identifying the testing methods to be used and the minimum frequency with which such testing methods are to be used; and
(4)
Evaluate pricing services.
Overseeing pricing service providers, if used, including establishing the process for approving, monitoring, and evaluating each pricing service provider and initiating price challenges as appropriate.
(b)
Performance of fair value determinations.
The board of the fund must determine fair value in good faith for any or all fund investments by carrying out the functions required in paragraph (a) of this section. The board may choose to designate the valuation designee to perform the fair value determination relating to any or all fund investments, which shall carry out all of the functions required in paragraph (a) of this section, subject to the requirements of this paragraph (b).
(1)
Oversight and reporting.
The board oversees the valuation designee, and the valuation designee reports to the fund's board, in writing, including such information as may be reasonably necessary for the board to evaluate the matters covered in the report, as follows:
(i)
Periodic reporting.
(A) At least quarterly:
(
1
) Any reports or materials requested by the board related to the fair value of designated investments or the valuation designee's process for fair valuing fund investments; and
(
2
) A summary or description of material fair value matters that occurred in the prior quarter, including:
(
i
) Any material changes in the assessment and management of valuation risks required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, including any material changes in conflicts of interest of the valuation designee (and any other service provider);
(
ii
) Any material changes to, or material deviations from, the fair value methodologies established under paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(
iii
) Any material changes to the valuation designee's process for selecting and overseeing pricing services, as well as any material events related to
the valuation designee's oversight of pricing services; and
(B) At least annually, an assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the valuation designee's process for determining the fair value of the designated portfolio of investments, including, at a minimum:
(
1
) A summary of the results of the testing of fair value methodologies required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and
(
2
) An assessment of the adequacy of resources allocated to the process for determining the fair value of designated investments, including any material changes to the roles or functions of the persons responsible for determining fair value under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(ii)
Prompt board notification and reporting.
The valuation designee notifies the board of the occurrence of matters that materially affect the fair value of the designated portfolio of investments, including a significant deficiency or material weakness in the design or effectiveness of the valuation designee's fair value determination process, or material errors in the calculation of net asset value, (any such matter or error, a “material matter”) within a time period determined by the board (but in no event later than five business days after the valuation designee becomes aware of the material matter), with such timely follow-on reporting as the board may determine appropriate; and
(2)
Specify responsibilities.
The valuation designee specifies the titles of the persons responsible for determining the fair value of the designated investments, including by specifying the particular functions for which they are responsible, and reasonably segregates fair value determinations from the portfolio management of the fund such that the portfolio manager(s) may not determine, or effectively determine by exerting substantial influence on, the fair values ascribed to portfolio investments.
(c)
Readily available market quotations.
For purposes of section 2(a)(41) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(41)), a market quotation is readily available only when that quotation is a quoted price (unadjusted) in active markets for identical investments that the fund can access at the measurement date, provided that a quotation will not be readily available if it is not reliable.
(d)
Unit investment trusts.
If the fund is a unit investment trust, and the initial deposit of portfolio securities into the unit investment trust occurs
after
March 8, 2021, the fund's trustee or depositor must carry out the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. If the initial deposit of portfolio securities into the unit investment trust occurred
before
March 8, 2021, and an entity other than the fund's trustee or depositor has been designated to carry out the fair value determination, that entity must carry out the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Fund
means a registered investment company or business development company.
(2)
Fair value
means the value of a portfolio investment for which market quotations are not readily available under paragraph (c) of this section.
(3)
Board
means either the fund's entire board of directors or a designated committee of such board composed of a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund.
(4)
Valuation designee
means the investment adviser, other than a sub-adviser, of a fund or, if the fund does not have an investment adviser, an officer or officers of the fund.
[86 FR 807, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 270.2a-6
Certain transactions not deemed assignments.
A transaction which does not result in a change of actual control or management of the investment adviser to, or principal underwriter of, an investment company is not an assignment for purposes of section 15(a)(4) or section 15(b)(2) of the act, respectively.
(Secs. 6(c) and 38(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c) and 80a-37(a)))
[45 FR 1861, Jan. 9, 1980]
§ 270.2a-7
Money market funds.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Acquisition (or acquire)
means any purchase or subsequent rollover (but does not include
the failure to exercise a demand feature).
(2)
Amortized cost method of valuation
means the method of calculating an investment company's net asset value whereby portfolio securities are valued at the fund's acquisition cost as adjusted for amortization of premium or accretion of discount rather than at their value based on current market factors.
(3)
Asset-backed security
means a fixed income security (other than a government security) issued by a special purpose entity (as defined in this paragraph (a)(3)), substantially all of the assets of which consist of qualifying assets (as defined in this paragraph (a)(3)).
Special purpose entity
means a trust, corporation, partnership or other entity organized for the sole purpose of issuing securities that entitle their holders to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from qualifying assets, but does not include a registered investment company.
Qualifying assets
means financial assets, either fixed or revolving, that by their terms convert into cash within a finite time period, plus any rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to security holders.
(4)
Business day
means any day, other than Saturday, Sunday, or any customary business holiday.
(5)
Collateralized fully
has the same meaning as defined in § 270.5b-3(c)(1) except that § 270.5b-3(c)(1)(iv)(C) shall not apply.
(6)
Conditional demand feature
means a demand feature that is not an unconditional demand feature. A conditional demand feature is not a guarantee.
(7)
Conduit security
means a security issued by a municipal issuer (as defined in this paragraph (a)(7)) involving an arrangement or agreement entered into, directly or indirectly, with a person other than a municipal issuer, which arrangement or agreement provides for or secures repayment of the security.
Municipal issuer
means a state or territory of the United States (including the District of Columbia), or any political subdivision or public instrumentality of a state or territory of the United States. A conduit security does not include a security that is:
(i) Fully and unconditionally guaranteed by a municipal issuer;
(ii) Payable from the general revenues of the municipal issuer or other municipal issuers (other than those revenues derived from an agreement or arrangement with a person who is not a municipal issuer that provides for or secures repayment of the security issued by the municipal issuer);
(iii) Related to a project owned and operated by a municipal issuer; or
(iv) Related to a facility leased to and under the control of an industrial or commercial enterprise that is part of a public project which, as a whole, is owned and under the control of a municipal issuer.
(8)
Daily liquid assets
means:
(i) Cash;
(ii) Direct obligations of the U.S. Government;
(iii) Securities that will mature, as determined without reference to the exceptions in paragraph (i) of this section regarding interest rate readjustments, or are subject to a demand feature that is exercisable and payable, within one business day; or
(iv) Amounts receivable and due unconditionally within one business day on pending sales of portfolio securities.
(9)
Demand feature
means a feature permitting the holder of a security to sell the security at an exercise price equal to the approximate amortized cost of the security plus accrued interest, if any, at the later of the time of exercise or the settlement of the transaction, paid within 397 calendar days of exercise.
(10)
Demand feature issued by a non-controlled person
means a demand feature issued by:
(i) A person that, directly or indirectly, does not control, and is not controlled by or under common control with the issuer of the security subject to the demand feature (
control
means “control” as defined in section 2(a)(9) of the Act) (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(9)); or
(ii) A sponsor of a special purpose entity with respect to an asset-backed security.
(11)
Eligible security
means a security:
(i) With a remaining maturity of 397 calendar days or less that the fund's board of directors determines presents minimal credit risks to the fund, which
determination must include an analysis of the capacity of the security's issuer or guarantor (including for this paragraph (a)(11)(i) the provider of a conditional demand feature, when applicable) to meet its financial obligations, and such analysis must include, to the extent appropriate, consideration of the following factors with respect to the security's issuer or guarantor:
(A) Financial condition;
(B) Sources of liquidity;
(C) Ability to react to future market-wide and issuer- or guarantor-specific events, including ability to repay debt in a highly adverse situation; and
(D) Strength of the issuer or guarantor's industry within the economy and relative to economic trends, and issuer or guarantor's competitive position within its industry.
(ii) That is issued by a registered investment company that is a money market fund; or
(iii) That is a government security.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(11):
For a discussion of additional factors that may be relevant in evaluating certain specific asset types see Investment Company Act Release No. IC-31828 (9/16/15).
(12)
Event of insolvency
has the same meaning as defined in § 270.5b-3(c)(2).
(13)
Floating rate security
means a security the terms of which provide for the adjustment of its interest rate whenever a specified interest rate changes and that, at any time until the final maturity of the instrument or the period remaining until the principal amount can be recovered through demand, can reasonably be expected to have a market value that approximates its amortized cost.
(14)
Government money market fund
means a money market fund that invests 99.5 percent or more of its total assets in cash, government securities, and/or repurchase agreements that are collateralized fully.
(15)
Government security
has the same meaning as defined in section 2(a)(16) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(16)).
(16)
Guarantee:
(i) Means an unconditional obligation of a person other than the issuer of the security to undertake to pay, upon presentment by the holder of the guarantee (if required), the principal amount of the underlying security plus accrued interest when due or upon default, or, in the case of an unconditional demand feature, an obligation that entitles the holder to receive upon the later of exercise or the settlement of the transaction the approximate amortized cost of the underlying security or securities, plus accrued interest, if any. A guarantee includes a letter of credit, financial guaranty (bond) insurance, and an unconditional demand feature (other than an unconditional demand feature provided by the issuer of the security).
(ii) The sponsor of a special purpose entity with respect to an asset-backed security shall be deemed to have provided a guarantee with respect to the entire principal amount of the asset-backed security for purposes of this section, except paragraphs (a)(11) (definition of eligible security), (d)(2)(ii) (credit substitution), (d)(3)(iv)(A) (fractional guarantees) and (e) (guarantees not relied on) of this section, unless the money market fund's board of directors has determined that the fund is not relying on the sponsor's financial strength or its ability or willingness to provide liquidity, credit or other support to determine the quality (pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section) or liquidity (pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section) of the asset-backed security, and maintains a record of this determination (pursuant to paragraphs (g)(7) and (h)(6) of this section).
(17)
Guarantee issued by a non-controlled person
means a guarantee issued by:
(i) A person that, directly or indirectly, does not control, and is not controlled by or under common control with the issuer of the security subject to the guarantee (
control
means “control” as defined in section 2(a)(9) of the Act) (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(9))); or
(ii) A sponsor of a special purpose entity with respect to an asset-backed security.
(18)
Illiquid security
means a security that cannot be sold or disposed of in the ordinary course of business within seven calendar days at approximately the value ascribed to it by the fund.
(19)
Penny-rounding method
of pricing means the method of computing an investment company's price per share for
purposes of distribution, redemption and repurchase whereby the current net asset value per share is rounded to the nearest one percent.
(20)
Refunded security
has the same meaning as defined in § 270.5b-3(c)(4).
(21)
Retail money market fund
means a money market fund that has policies and procedures reasonably designed to limit all beneficial owners of the fund to natural persons.
(22)
Single state fund
means a tax exempt fund that holds itself out as seeking to maximize the amount of its distributed income that is exempt from the income taxes or other taxes on investments of a particular state and, where applicable, subdivisions thereof.
(23)
Tax exempt fund
means any money market fund that holds itself out as distributing income exempt from regular federal income tax.
(24)
Total assets
means, with respect to a money market fund using the Amortized Cost Method, the total amortized cost of its assets and, with respect to any other money market fund, means the total value of the money market fund's assets, as defined in section 2(a)(41) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(41)) and the rules thereunder.
(25)
Unconditional demand feature
means a demand feature that by its terms would be readily exercisable in the event of a default in payment of principal or interest on the underlying security or securities.
(26)
United States dollar-denominated
means, with reference to a security, that all principal and interest payments on such security are payable to security holders in United States dollars under all circumstances and that the interest rate of, the principal amount to be repaid, and the timing of payments related to such security do not vary or float with the value of a foreign currency, the rate of interest payable on foreign currency borrowings, or with any other interest rate or index expressed in a currency other than United States dollars.
(27)
Variable rate security
means a security the terms of which provide for the adjustment of its interest rate on set dates (such as the last day of a month or calendar quarter) and that, upon each adjustment until the final maturity of the instrument or the period remaining until the principal amount can be recovered through demand, can reasonably be expected to have a market value that approximates its amortized cost.
(28)
Weekly liquid assets
means:
(i) Cash;
(ii) Direct obligations of the U.S. Government;
(iii) Government securities that are issued by a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an instrumentality of the government of the United States pursuant to authority granted by the Congress of the United States that:
(A) Are issued at a discount to the principal amount to be repaid at maturity without provision for the payment of interest; and
(B) Have a remaining maturity date of 60 days or less.
(iv) Securities that will mature, as determined without reference to the exceptions in paragraph (i) of this section regarding interest rate readjustments, or are subject to a demand feature that is exercisable and payable, within five business days; or
(v) Amounts receivable and due unconditionally within five business days on pending sales of portfolio securities.
(b)
Holding out and use of names and titles
—(1)
Holding out.
It shall be an untrue statement of material fact within the meaning of section 34(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-33(b)) for a registered investment company, in any registration statement, application, report, account, record, or other document filed or transmitted pursuant to the Act, including any advertisement, pamphlet, circular, form letter, or other sales literature addressed to or intended for distribution to prospective investors that is required to be filed with the Commission by section 24(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(b)), to hold itself out to investors as a money market fund or the equivalent of a money market fund, unless such registered investment company complies with this section.
(2)
Names.
It shall constitute the use of a materially deceptive or misleading name or title within the meaning of section 35(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-34(d)) for a registered investment company to adopt the term “money market” as part of its name or title or the
name or title of any redeemable securities of which it is the issuer, or to adopt a name that suggests that it is a money market fund or the equivalent of a money market fund, unless such registered investment company complies with this section.
(3)
Titles.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a name that suggests that a registered investment company is a money market fund or the equivalent thereof includes one that uses such terms as “cash,” “liquid,” “money,” “ready assets” or similar terms.
(c)
Pricing and Redeeming Shares
—(1)
Share price calculation.
(i) The current price per share, for purposes of distribution, redemption and repurchase, of any redeemable security issued by a government money market fund or retail money market fund, notwithstanding the requirements of section 2(a)(41) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(41)) and of §§ 270.2a-4 and 270.22c-1 thereunder, may be computed by use of the amortized cost method and/or the penny-rounding method. To use these methods, the board of directors of the government or retail money market fund must determine, in good faith, that it is in the best interests of the fund and its shareholders to maintain a stable net asset value per share or stable price per share, by virtue of either the amortized cost method and/or the penny-rounding method. The government or retail money market fund may continue to use such methods only so long as the board of directors believes that they fairly reflect the market-based net asset value per share and the fund complies with the other requirements of this section.
(ii) Any money market fund that is not a government money market fund or a retail money market fund must compute its price per share for purposes of distribution, redemption and repurchase by rounding the fund's current net asset value per share to a minimum of the fourth decimal place in the case of a fund with a $1.0000 share price or an equivalent or more precise level of accuracy for money market funds with a different share price (e.g. $10.000 per share, or $100.00 per share).
(2)
Liquidity fees.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section, and notwithstanding section 27(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-27(i)) and § 270.22c-1:
(i)
Discretionary liquidity fees.
If the fund's board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund, determines that a liquidity fee is in the best interests of the fund, the fund must institute a liquidity fee (not to exceed two percent of the value of the shares redeemed).
(A)
Duration and application of discretionary liquidity fee.
Once imposed, a discretionary liquidity fee must be applied to all shares redeemed and must remain in effect until the money market fund's board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund, determines that imposing such liquidity fee is no longer in the best interests of the fund.
(B)
Government money market funds.
The requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(i) do not apply to a government money market fund. A government money market fund may, however, choose to rely on the ability to impose discretionary liquidity fees consistent with the requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(i) and any other requirements that apply to liquidity fees (
e.g.,
Item 4(b)(1)(ii) of Form N-1A (§ 274.11A of this chapter)).
(ii)
Determination, duration, and application of mandatory liquidity fees.
If a money market fund that is not a government money market fund or a retail money market fund has total daily net redemptions that exceed five percent of the fund's net assets, or such smaller amount of net redemptions as the board determines, based on flow information available within a reasonable period after the last computation of the fund's net asset value on that day, the fund must apply a liquidity fee to all shares that are redeemed at a price computed on that day, in an amount determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.
(iii)
Amount of mandatory liquidity fees.
The amount of a mandatory liquidity fee must be determined pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(C) or (D) of this section.
(A)
Good faith estimate of liquidity costs.
The fee amount must be based on a good faith estimate, supported by data, of the costs the fund would incur if it sold a pro rata amount of each security in its portfolio to satisfy the amount of net redemptions, including:
(
1
) Spread costs, such that the fund is valuing each security at its bid price, and any other charges, fees, and taxes associated with portfolio security sales; and
(
2
) Market impacts for each security. The fund must determine market impacts by first establishing a market impact factor for each security, which is a good faith estimate of the percentage change in the value of the security if it were sold, per dollar of the amount of the security that would be sold if the fund sold a pro rata amount of each security in its portfolio to satisfy the amount of net redemptions under current market conditions and, second, multiplying the market impact factor by the dollar amount of the security that would be sold. A fund may assume a market impact of zero for its daily liquid assets and weekly liquid assets.
(B)
Cost estimates by type of security.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, a fund may estimate costs and market impacts for each type of security with the same or substantially similar characteristics and apply those estimates to all securities of that type rather than analyze each security separately.
(C)
Default fee amount.
If the costs of selling a pro rata amount of each portfolio security cannot be estimated in good faith and supported by data, the liquidity fee amount is one percent of the value of shares redeemed.
(D)
De minimis exception.
A fund is not required to apply a liquidity fee if the amount of the fee determined under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is less than 0.01% of the value of the shares redeemed.
(iv)
Variable contracts.
Notwithstanding section 27(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-27(i)), a variable insurance contract issued by a registered separate account funding variable insurance contracts or the sponsoring insurance company of such separate account may apply a liquidity fee pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section to contract owners who allocate all or a portion of their contract value to a subaccount of the separate account that is either a money market fund or that invests all of its assets in shares of a money market fund.
(v)
Master feeder funds.
Any money market fund (“feeder fund”) that owns, pursuant to section 12(d)(1)(E) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(E)), shares of another money market fund (“master fund”) may not impose liquidity fees under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, provided however, that if a master fund, in which the feeder fund invests, imposes a liquidity fee pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, then the feeder fund shall pass through to its investors the fee on the same terms and conditions as imposed by the master fund.
(3)
Share cancellation.
A money market fund may not reduce the number of its shares outstanding to seek to maintain a stable net asset value per share or stable price per share unless:
(i) The money market fund calculates its share price pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section;
(ii) The fund has negative gross yield as a result of negative interest rates (“negative interest rate event”);
(iii) The board of directors determines that reducing the number of the fund's shares outstanding is in the best interests of the fund and its shareholders; and
(iv) Timely, concise, and plain English disclosure is provided to investors about the fund's share cancellation practices and their effects on investors, including:
(A) Advance notification to investors in the fund's prospectus that the fund plans to use share cancellation in a negative interest rate event and the potential effects on investors; and
(B) When the fund is cancelling shares, information in each account statement or in a separate writing accompanying each account statement identifying that such practice is in use and explaining its effects on investors.
(d)
Risk-limiting conditions
—(1)
Portfolio maturity.
The money market fund must maintain a dollar-weighted average portfolio maturity appropriate to its investment objective; provided,
however, that the money market fund must not:
(i) Acquire any instrument with a remaining maturity of greater than 397 calendar days;
(ii) Maintain a dollar-weighted average portfolio maturity (“WAM”) that exceeds 60 calendar days, with the dollar-weighted average based on the percentage of each security's market value in the portfolio; or
(iii) Maintain a dollar-weighted average portfolio maturity that exceeds 120 calendar days, determined without reference to the exceptions in paragraph (i) of this section regarding interest rate readjustments (“WAL”) and with the dollar-weighted average based on the percentage of each security's market value in the portfolio.
(2)
Portfolio quality
—(i)
General.
The money market fund must limit its portfolio investments to those United States dollar-denominated securities that at the time of acquisition are eligible securities.
(ii)
Securities subject to guarantees.
A security that is subject to a guarantee may be determined to be an eligible security based solely on whether the guarantee is an eligible security, provided however, that the issuer of the guarantee, or another institution, has undertaken to promptly notify the holder of the security in the event the guarantee is substituted with another guarantee (if such substitution is permissible under the terms of the guarantee).
(iii)
Securities subject to conditional demand features.
A security that is subject to a conditional demand feature (“underlying security”) may be determined to be an eligible security only if:
(A) The conditional demand feature is an eligible security;
(B) The underlying security or any guarantee of such security is an eligible security, except that the underlying security or guarantee may have a remaining maturity of more than 397 calendar days.
(C) At the time of the acquisition of the underlying security, the money market fund's board of directors has determined that there is minimal risk that the circumstances that would result in the conditional demand feature not being exercisable will occur; and
(
1
) The conditions limiting exercise either can be monitored readily by the fund or relate to the taxability, under federal, state or local law, of the interest payments on the security; or
(
2
) The terms of the conditional demand feature require that the fund will receive notice of the occurrence of the condition and the opportunity to exercise the demand feature in accordance with its terms; and
(D) The issuer of the conditional demand feature, or another institution, has undertaken to promptly notify the holder of the security in the event the conditional demand feature is substituted with another conditional demand feature (if such substitution is permissible under the terms of the conditional demand feature).
(3)
Portfolio diversification
—(i)
Issuer diversification.
The money market fund must be diversified with respect to issuers of securities acquired by the fund as provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, other than with respect to government securities.
(A)
Taxable and national funds.
Immediately after the acquisition of any security, a money market fund other than a single state fund must not have invested more than:
(
1
) Five percent of its total assets in securities issued by the issuer of the security, provided, however, that with respect to paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A) of this section, such a fund may invest up to twenty-five percent of its total assets in the securities of a single issuer for a period of up to three business days after the acquisition thereof; provided, further, that the fund may not invest in the securities of more than one issuer in accordance with the foregoing proviso in this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A)(
1
) at any time; and
(
2
) Ten percent of its total assets in securities issued by or subject to demand features or guarantees from the institution that issued the demand feature or guarantee, provided, however, that a tax exempt fund need only comply with this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A)(
2
) with respect to eighty-five percent of its total assets, subject to paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section.
(B)
Single state funds.
Immediately after the acquisition of any security, a
single state fund must not have invested:
(
1
) With respect to seventy-five percent of its total assets, more than five percent of its total assets in securities issued by the issuer of the security; and
(
2
) With respect to seventy-five percent of its total assets, more than ten percent of its total assets in securities issued by or subject to demand features or guarantees from the institution that issued the demand feature or guarantee, subject to paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Issuer diversification calculations.
For purposes of making calculations under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section:
(A)
Repurchase agreements.
The acquisition of a repurchase agreement may be deemed to be an acquisition of the underlying securities, provided the obligation of the seller to repurchase the securities from the money market fund is collateralized fully and the fund's board of directors has evaluated the seller's creditworthiness.
(B)
Refunded securities.
The acquisition of a refunded security shall be deemed to be an acquisition of the escrowed government securities.
(C)
Conduit securities.
A conduit security shall be deemed to be issued by the person (other than the municipal issuer) ultimately responsible for payments of interest and principal on the security.
(D)
Asset-backed securities
—(
1
)
General.
An asset-backed security acquired by a fund (“primary ABS”) shall be deemed to be issued by the special purpose entity that issued the asset-backed security, provided, however:
(
i
)
Holdings of primary ABS.
Any person whose obligations constitute ten percent or more of the principal amount of the qualifying assets of the primary ABS (“ten percent obligor”) shall be deemed to be an issuer of the portion of the primary ABS such obligations represent; and
(
ii
)
Holdings of secondary ABS.
If a ten percent obligor of a primary ABS is itself a special purpose entity issuing asset-backed securities (“secondary ABS”), any ten percent obligor of such secondary ABS also shall be deemed to be an issuer of the portion of the primary ABS that such ten percent obligor represents.
(
2
)
Restricted special purpose entities.
A ten percent obligor with respect to a primary or secondary ABS shall not be deemed to have issued any portion of the assets of a primary ABS as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D)(
1
) of this section if that ten percent obligor is itself a special purpose entity issuing asset-backed securities (“restricted special purpose entity”), and the securities that it issues (other than securities issued to a company that controls, or is controlled by or under common control with, the restricted special purpose entity and which is not itself a special purpose entity issuing asset-backed securities) are held by only one other special purpose entity.
(
(3
)
Demand features and guarantees.
In the case of a ten percent obligor deemed to be an issuer, the fund must satisfy the diversification requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section with respect to any demand feature or guarantee to which the ten percent obligor's obligations are subject.
(E)
Shares of other money market funds.
A money market fund that acquires shares issued by another money market fund in an amount that would otherwise be prohibited by paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section shall nonetheless be deemed in compliance with this section if the board of directors of the acquiring money market fund reasonably believes that the fund in which it has invested is in compliance with this section.
(F)
Treatment of certain affiliated entities
—(
1
)
General.
The money market fund, when calculating the amount of its total assets invested in securities issued by any particular issuer for purposes of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, must treat as a single issuer two or more issuers of securities owned by the money market fund if one issuer controls the other, is controlled by the other issuer, or is under common control with the other issuer, provided that “control” for this purpose means ownership of more than 50 percent of the issuer's voting securities.
(
2
)
Equity owners of asset-backed commercial paper special purpose entities.
The money market fund is not required
to aggregate an asset-backed commercial paper special purpose entity and its equity owners under paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(F)
(1)
of this section provided that a primary line of business of its equity owners is owning equity interests in special purpose entities and providing services to special purpose entities, the independent equity owners' activities with respect to the SPEs are limited to providing management or administrative services, and no qualifying assets of the special purpose entity were originated by the equity owners.
(
3
)
Ten percent obligors.
For purposes of determining ten percent obligors pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D)
(1)
(
i
) of this section, the money market fund must treat as a single person two or more persons whose obligations in the aggregate constitute ten percent or more of the principal amount of the qualifying assets of the primary ABS if one person controls the other, is controlled by the other person, or is under common control with the person, provided that “control” for this purpose means ownership of more than 50 percent of the person's voting securities.
(iii)
Diversification rules for demand features and guarantees.
The money market fund must be diversified with respect to demand features and guarantees acquired by the fund as provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(i), (iii), and (iv) of this section, other than with respect to a demand feature issued by the same institution that issued the underlying security, or with respect to a guarantee or demand feature that is itself a government security.
(A)
General.
Immediately after the acquisition of any demand feature or guarantee, any security subject to a demand feature or guarantee, or a security directly issued by the issuer of a demand feature or guarantee, a money market fund must not have invested more than ten percent of its total assets in securities issued by or subject to demand features or guarantees from the institution that issued the demand feature or guarantee, subject to paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (d)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.
(B)
Tax exempt funds.
Immediately after the acquisition of any demand feature or guarantee, any security subject to a demand feature or guarantee, or a security directly issued by the issuer of a demand feature or guarantee (any such acquisition, a “demand feature or guarantee acquisition”), a tax exempt fund, with respect to eighty-five percent of its total assets, must not have invested more than ten percent of its total assets in securities issued by or subject to demand features or guarantees from the institution that issued the demand feature or guarantee; provided that any demand feature or guarantee acquisition in excess of ten percent of the fund's total assets in accordance with this paragraph must be a demand feature or guarantee issued by a non-controlled person.
(iv)
Demand feature and guarantee diversification calculations
—(A)
Fractional demand features or guarantees.
In the case of a security subject to a demand feature or guarantee from an institution by which the institution guarantees a specified portion of the value of the security, the institution shall be deemed to guarantee the specified portion thereof.
(B)
Layered demand features or guarantees.
In the case of a security subject to demand features or guarantees from multiple institutions that have not limited the extent of their obligations as described in paragraph (d)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, each institution shall be deemed to have provided the demand feature or guarantee with respect to the entire principal amount of the security.
(v)
Diversification safe harbor.
A money market fund that satisfies the applicable diversification requirements of paragraphs (d)(3) and (e) of this section shall be deemed to have satisfied the diversification requirements of section 5(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5(b)(1)) and the rules adopted thereunder.
(4)
Portfolio liquidity.
The money market fund must hold securities that are sufficiently liquid to meet reasonably foreseeable shareholder redemptions in light of the fund's obligations under section 22(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(e)) and any commitments the fund has made to shareholders; provided, however, that:
(i)
Illiquid securities.
The money market fund may not acquire any illiquid
security if, immediately after the acquisition, the money market fund would have invested more than five percent of its total assets in illiquid securities.
(ii)
Minimum daily liquidity requirement.
The money market fund may not acquire any security other than a daily liquid asset if, immediately after the acquisition, the fund would have invested less than twenty-five percent of its total assets in daily liquid assets. This provision does not apply to tax exempt funds.
(iii)
Minimum weekly liquidity requirement.
The money market fund may not acquire any security other than a weekly liquid asset if, immediately after the acquisition, the fund would have invested less than fifty percent of its total assets in weekly liquid assets.
(e)
Demand features and guarantees not relied upon.
If the fund's board of directors has determined that the fund is not relying on a demand feature or guarantee to determine the quality (pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section), or maturity (pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section), or liquidity of a portfolio security (pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section), and maintains a record of this determination (pursuant to paragraphs (g)(3) and (h)(7) of this section), then the fund may disregard such demand feature or guarantee for all purposes of this section.
(f)
Defaults and other events
—(1)
Adverse events.
Upon the occurrence of any of the events specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section with respect to a portfolio security, the money market fund shall dispose of such security as soon as practicable consistent with achieving an orderly disposition of the security, by sale, exercise of any demand feature or otherwise, absent a finding by the board of directors that disposal of the portfolio security would not be in the best interests of the money market fund (which determination may take into account, among other factors, market conditions that could affect the orderly disposition of the portfolio security):
(i) The default with respect to a portfolio security (other than an immaterial default unrelated to the financial condition of the issuer);
(ii) A portfolio security ceases to be an eligible security (e.g., no longer presents minimal credit risks); or
(iii) An event of insolvency occurs with respect to the issuer of a portfolio security or the provider of any demand feature or guarantee.
(2)
Notice to the Commission.
The money market fund must notify the Commission of the occurrence of certain material events, as specified in Form N-CR (§ 274.222 of this chapter).
(3)
Defaults for purposes of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
For purposes of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, an instrument subject to a demand feature or guarantee shall not be deemed to be in default (and an event of insolvency with respect to the security shall not be deemed to have occurred) if:
(i) In the case of an instrument subject to a demand feature, the demand feature has been exercised and the fund has recovered either the principal amount or the amortized cost of the instrument, plus accrued interest;
(ii) The provider of the guarantee is continuing, without protest, to make payments as due on the instrument; or
(iii) The provider of a guarantee with respect to an asset-backed security pursuant to paragraph (a)(16)(ii) of this section is continuing, without protest, to provide credit, liquidity or other support as necessary to permit the asset-backed security to make payments as due.
(4)
Notice to the board of directors.
(i) The money market fund must notify its board of directors within one business day following the occurrence of:
(A) The money market fund investing less than twelve and a half percent of its total assets in daily liquid assets; or
(B) The money market fund investing less than twenty-five percent of its total assets in weekly liquid assets.
(ii) Following an event described in paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section, the money market fund must provide its board of directors with a brief description of the facts and circumstances leading to such event within four business days after occurrence of the event.
(g)
Required procedures.
The money market fund's board of directors must
adopt written procedures including the following:
(1)
Funds using amortized cost.
In the case of a government or retail money market fund that uses the amortized cost method of valuation, in supervising the money market fund's operations and delegating special responsibilities involving portfolio management to the money market fund's investment adviser, the money market fund's board of directors, as a particular responsibility within the overall duty of care owed to its shareholders, shall establish written procedures reasonably designed, taking into account current market conditions and the money market fund's investment objectives, to stabilize the money market fund's net asset value per share, as computed for the purpose of distribution, redemption and repurchase, at a single value.
(i)
Specific procedures.
Included within the procedures adopted by the board of directors shall be the following:
(A)
Shadow pricing.
Written procedures shall provide:
(
1
) That the extent of deviation, if any, of the current net asset value per share calculated using available market quotations (or an appropriate substitute that reflects current market conditions) from the money market fund's amortized cost price per share, shall be calculated at least daily, and at such other intervals that the board of directors determines appropriate and reasonable in light of current market conditions;
(
2
) For the periodic review by the board of directors of the amount of the deviation as well as the methods used to calculate the deviation; and
(
3
) For the maintenance of records of the determination of deviation and the board's review thereof.
(B)
Prompt consideration of deviation.
In the event such deviation from the money market fund's amortized cost price per share exceeds
1/2
of 1 percent, the board of directors shall promptly consider what action, if any, should be initiated by the board of directors.
(C)
Material dilution or unfair results.
Where the board of directors believes the extent of any deviation from the money market fund's amortized cost price per share may result in material dilution or other unfair results to investors or existing shareholders, it shall cause the fund to take such action as it deems appropriate to eliminate or reduce to the extent reasonably practicable such dilution or unfair results.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2)
Funds using penny rounding.
In the case of a government or retail money market fund that uses the penny rounding method of pricing, in supervising the money market fund's operations and delegating special responsibilities involving portfolio management to the money market fund's investment adviser, the money market fund's board of directors, as a particular responsibility within the overall duty of care owed to its shareholders, must establish written procedures reasonably designed, taking into account current market conditions and the money market fund's investment objectives, to assure to the extent reasonably practicable that the money market fund's price per share as computed for the purpose of distribution, redemption and repurchase, rounded to the nearest one percent, will not deviate from the single price established by the board of directors.
(3)
Ongoing Review of Credit Risks.
The written procedures must require the adviser to provide ongoing review of whether each security (other than a government security) continues to present minimal credit risks. The review must:
(i) Include an assessment of each security's credit quality, including the capacity of the issuer or guarantor (including conditional demand feature provider, when applicable) to meet its financial obligations; and
(ii) Be based on, among other things, financial data of the issuer of the portfolio security or provider of the guarantee or demand feature, as the case may be, and in the case of a security subject to a conditional demand feature, the issuer of the security whose financial condition must be monitored under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, whether such data is publicly available or provided under the terms of the security's governing documents.
(4)
Securities subject to demand features or guarantees.
In the case of a security
subject to one or more demand features or guarantees that the fund's board of directors has determined that the fund is not relying on to determine the quality (pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section), maturity (pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section) or liquidity (pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section) of the security subject to the demand feature or guarantee, written procedures must require periodic evaluation of such determination.
(5)
Adjustable rate securities without demand features.
In the case of a variable rate or floating rate security that is not subject to a demand feature and for which maturity is determined pursuant to paragraph (i)(1), (i)(2) or (i)(4) of this section, written procedures shall require periodic review of whether the interest rate formula, upon readjustment of its interest rate, can reasonably be expected to cause the security to have a market value that approximates its amortized cost value.
(6)
Ten percent obligors of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an asset-backed security, written procedures must require the fund to periodically determine the number of ten percent obligors (as that term is used in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D) of this section) deemed to be the issuers of all or a portion of the asset-backed security for purposes of paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D) of this section; provided, however, written procedures need not require periodic determinations with respect to any asset-backed security that a fund's board of directors has determined, at the time of acquisition, will not have, or is unlikely to have, ten percent obligors that are deemed to be issuers of all or a portion of that asset-backed security for purposes of paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D) of this section, and maintains a record of this determination.
(7)
Asset-backed securities not subject to guarantees.
In the case of an asset-backed security for which the fund's board of directors has determined that the fund is not relying on the sponsor's financial strength or its ability or willingness to provide liquidity, credit or other support in connection with the asset-backed security to determine the quality (pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section) or liquidity (pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section) of the asset-backed security, written procedures must require periodic evaluation of such determination.
(8)
Stress Testing.
Written procedures must provide for:
(i)
General.
The periodic stress testing, at such intervals as the board of directors determines appropriate and reasonable in light of current market conditions, of the money market fund's ability to maintain the sufficient liquidity levels identified in its written procedures, and the fund's ability to minimize principal volatility (and, in the case of a money market fund using the amortized cost method of valuation or penny rounding method of pricing as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the fund's ability to maintain the stable price per share established by the board of directors for the purpose of distribution, redemption and repurchase), based upon specified hypothetical events that include, but are not limited to:
(A) Increases in the general level of short-term interest rates, in combination with various levels of an increase in shareholder redemptions;
(B) An event indicating or evidencing credit deterioration, such as a downgrade or default of particular portfolio security positions, each representing various portions of the fund's portfolio (with varying assumptions about the resulting loss in the value of the security), in combination with various levels of an increase in shareholder redemptions;
(C) A widening of spreads compared to the indexes to which portfolio securities are tied in various sectors in the fund's portfolio (in which a sector is a logically related subset of portfolio securities, such as securities of issuers in similar or related industries or geographic region or securities of a similar security type), in combination with various levels of an increase in shareholder redemptions; and
(D) Any additional combinations of events that the adviser deems relevant.
(ii) A report on the results of such testing to be provided to the board of directors at its next regularly scheduled meeting (or sooner, if appropriate in light of the results), which report must include:
(A) The date(s) on which the testing was performed and an assessment of the money market fund's ability to maintain the sufficient liquidity levels identified in its written procedures and to minimize principal volatility (and, in the case of a money market fund using the amortized cost method of valuation or penny rounding method of pricing as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to maintain the stable price per share established by the board of directors); and
(B) An assessment by the fund's adviser of the fund's ability to withstand the events (and concurrent occurrences of those events) that are reasonably likely to occur within the following year, including such information as may reasonably be necessary for the board of directors to evaluate the stress testing conducted by the adviser and the results of the testing. The fund adviser must include a summary of the significant assumptions made when performing the stress tests.
(h)
Recordkeeping and reporting
—(1)
Written procedures.
For a period of not less than six years following the replacement of existing procedures with new procedures (the first two years in an easily accessible place), a written copy of the procedures (and any modifications thereto) described in this section must be maintained and preserved.
(2)
Board considerations and actions.
For a period of not less than six years (the first two years in an easily accessible place) a written record must be maintained and preserved of the board of directors' considerations and actions taken in connection with the discharge of its responsibilities, as set forth in this section, to be included in the minutes of the board of directors' meetings.
(3)
Credit risk analysis.
For a period of not less than three years from the date that the credit risks of a portfolio security were most recently reviewed, a written record must be maintained and preserved in an easily accessible place of the determination that a portfolio security is an eligible security, including the determination that it presents minimal credit risks at the time the fund acquires the security, or at such later times (or upon such events) that the board of directors determines that the investment adviser must reassess whether the security presents minimal credit risks.
(4)
Determinations with respect to adjustable rate securities.
For a period of not less than three years from the date when the assessment was most recently made, a written record must be preserved and maintained, in an easily accessible place, of the determination required by paragraph (g)(5) of this section (that a variable rate or floating rate security that is not subject to a demand feature and for which maturity is determined pursuant to paragraph (i)(1), (i)(2) or (i)(4) of this section can reasonably be expected, upon readjustment of its interest rate at all times during the life of the instrument, to have a market value that approximates its amortized cost).
(5)
Determinations with respect to asset-backed securities.
For a period of not less than three years from the date when the determination was most recently made, a written record must be preserved and maintained, in an easily accessible place, of the determinations required by paragraph (g)(6) of this section (the number of ten percent obligors (as that term is used in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D) of this section) deemed to be the issuers of all or a portion of the asset-backed security for purposes of paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D) of this section). The written record must include:
(i) The identities of the ten percent obligors (as that term is used in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D) of this section), the percentage of the qualifying assets constituted by the securities of each ten percent obligor and the percentage of the fund's total assets that are invested in securities of each ten percent obligor; and
(ii) Any determination that an asset-backed security will not have, or is unlikely to have, ten percent obligors deemed to be issuers of all or a portion of that asset-backed security for purposes of paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(D) of this section.
(6)
Evaluations with respect to asset-backed securities not subject to guarantees.
For a period of not less than three years from the date when the evaluation was most recently made, a written record must be preserved and maintained, in an easily accessible place, of
the evaluation required by paragraph (g)(7) of this section (regarding asset-backed securities not subject to guarantees).
(7)
Evaluations with respect to securities subject to demand features or guarantees.
For a period of not less than three years from the date when the evaluation was most recently made, a written record must be preserved and maintained, in an easily accessible place, of the evaluation required by paragraph (g)(4) of this section (regarding securities subject to one or more demand features or guarantees).
(8)
Reports with respect to stress testing.
For a period of not less than six years (the first two years in an easily accessible place), a written copy of the report required under paragraph (g)(8)(ii) of this section must be maintained and preserved.
(9)
Inspection of records.
The documents preserved pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section are subject to inspection by the Commission in accordance with section 31(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-30(b)) as if such documents were records required to be maintained pursuant to rules adopted under section 31(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-30(a)).
(10)
Website disclosure of portfolio holdings and other fund information.
The money market fund must post prominently on its website the following information:
(i) For a period of not less than six months, beginning no later than the fifth business day of the month, a schedule of its investments, as of the last business day or subsequent calendar day of the preceding month, that includes the following information:
(A) With respect to the money market fund and each class of redeemable shares thereof:
(
1
) The WAM; and
(
2
) The WAL.
(B) With respect to each security held by the money market fund:
(
1
) Name of the issuer;
(
2
) Category of investment (indicate the category that identifies the instrument from among the following: U.S. Treasury Debt; U.S. Government Agency Debt, if categorized as coupon-paying notes; U.S. Government Agency Debt, if categorized as no-coupon discount notes; Non-U.S. Sovereign, Sub-Sovereign and Supra-National debt; Certificate of Deposit; Non-Negotiable Time Deposit; Variable Rate Demand Note; Other Municipal Security; Asset Backed Commercial Paper; Other Asset Backed Securities; U.S. Treasury Repurchase Agreement, if collateralized only by U.S. Treasuries (including Strips) and cash; U.S. Government Agency Repurchase Agreement, collateralized only by U.S. Government Agency securities, U.S. Treasuries, and cash; Other Repurchase Agreement, if any collateral falls outside Treasury, Government Agency and cash; Insurance Company Funding Agreement; Investment Company; Financial Company Commercial Paper; Non-Financial Company Commercial Paper; and Other Instrument. If Other Instrument, include a brief description);
(
3
) CUSIP number (if any);
(
4
) Principal amount;
(
5
) The maturity date determined by taking into account the maturity shortening provisions in paragraph (i) of this section (
i.e.,
the maturity date used to calculate WAM under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section);
(
6
) The maturity date determined without reference to the exceptions in paragraph (i) of this section regarding interest rate readjustments (
i.e.,
the maturity used to calculate WAL under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section);
(
7
) Coupon or yield; and
(
8
) Value.
(ii) A schedule, chart, graph, or other depiction, which must be updated each business day as of the end of the preceding business day, showing, as of the end of each business day during the preceding six months:
(A) The percentage of the money market fund's total assets invested in daily liquid assets;
(B) The percentage of the money market fund's total assets invested in weekly liquid assets; and
(C) The money market fund's net inflows or outflows.
(iii) A schedule, chart, graph, or other depiction showing the money market fund's net asset value per share (which the fund must calculate based on current market factors before applying the amortized cost or penny-rounding method, if used), rounded to the fourth decimal place in the case of
funds with a $1.0000 share price or an equivalent level of accuracy for funds with a different share price (
e.g.,
$10.000 per share), as of the end of each business day during the preceding six months, which must be updated each business day as of the end of the preceding business day.
(iv) A link to a website of the Securities and Exchange Commission where a user may obtain the most recent 12 months of publicly available information filed by the money market fund pursuant to § 270.30b1-7.
(v) For a period of not less than one year, beginning no later than the same business day on which the money market fund files an initial report on Form N-CR (§ 274.222 of this chapter) in response to the occurrence of any event specified in Part C of Form N-CR, the same information that the money market fund is required to report to the Commission on Part C (Items C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4, C.5, C.6, and C.7) of Form N-CR concerning such event, along with the following statement: “The Fund was required to disclose additional information about this event on Form N-CR and to file this form with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any Form N-CR filing submitted by the Fund is available on the EDGAR Database on the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site at
https://www.sec.gov.
”
(11)
Processing of transactions.
A government money market fund and a retail money market fund (or its transfer agent) must have the capacity to redeem and sell securities issued by the fund at a price based on the current net asset value per share pursuant to § 270.22c-1. Such capacity must include the ability to redeem and sell securities at prices that do not correspond to a stable price per share.
(i)
Maturity of portfolio securities.
For purposes of this section, the maturity of a portfolio security shall be deemed to be the period remaining (calculated from the trade date or such other date on which the fund's interest in the security is subject to market action) until the date on which, in accordance with the terms of the security, the principal amount must unconditionally be paid, or in the case of a security called for redemption, the date on which the redemption payment must be made, except as provided in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(8) of this section:
(1)
Adjustable rate government securities.
A government security that is a variable rate security where the variable rate of interest is readjusted no less frequently than every 397 calendar days shall be deemed to have a maturity equal to the period remaining until the next readjustment of the interest rate. A government security that is a floating rate security shall be deemed to have a remaining maturity of one day.
(2)
Short-term variable rate securities.
A variable rate security, the principal amount of which, in accordance with the terms of the security, must unconditionally be paid in 397 calendar days or less shall be deemed to have a maturity equal to the earlier of the period remaining until the next readjustment of the interest rate or the period remaining until the principal amount can be recovered through demand.
(3)
Long-term variable rate securities.
A variable rate security, the principal amount of which is scheduled to be paid in more than 397 calendar days, that is subject to a demand feature, shall be deemed to have a maturity equal to the longer of the period remaining until the next readjustment of the interest rate or the period remaining until the principal amount can be recovered through demand.
(4)
Short-term floating rate securities.
A floating rate security, the principal amount of which, in accordance with the terms of the security, must unconditionally be paid in 397 calendar days or less shall be deemed to have a maturity of one day, except for purposes of determining WAL under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, in which case it shall be deemed to have a maturity equal to the period remaining until the principal amount can be recovered through demand.
(5)
Long-term floating rate securities.
A floating rate security, the principal amount of which is scheduled to be paid in more than 397 calendar days, that is subject to a demand feature, shall be deemed to have a maturity equal to the period remaining until the
principal amount can be recovered through demand.
(6)
Repurchase agreements.
A repurchase agreement shall be deemed to have a maturity equal to the period remaining until the date on which the repurchase of the underlying securities is scheduled to occur, or, where the agreement is subject to demand, the notice period applicable to a demand for the repurchase of the securities.
(7)
Portfolio lending agreements.
A portfolio lending agreement shall be treated as having a maturity equal to the period remaining until the date on which the loaned securities are scheduled to be returned, or where the agreement is subject to demand, the notice period applicable to a demand for the return of the loaned securities.
(8)
Money market fund securities.
An investment in a money market fund shall be treated as having a maturity equal to the period of time within which the acquired money market fund is required to make payment upon redemption, unless the acquired money market fund has agreed in writing to provide redemption proceeds to the investing money market fund within a shorter time period, in which case the maturity of such investment shall be deemed to be the shorter period.
(j)
Delegation.
The money market fund's board of directors may delegate to the fund's investment adviser or officers the responsibility to make any determination required to be made by the board of directors under this section other than the determinations required by paragraphs (c)(1) (board findings), (c)(3) (share cancellation), (f)(1) (adverse events), (g)(1) and (2) (amortized cost and penny rounding procedures), and (g)(8) (stress testing procedures) of this section.
(1)
Written guidelines.
The board of directors must establish and periodically review written guidelines (including guidelines for determining whether securities present minimal credit risks as required in paragraphs (d)(2) and (g)(3) of this section and guidelines for determining the application and size of liquidity fees as required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) and procedures under which the delegate makes such determinations.
(2)
Oversight.
The board of directors must take any measures reasonably necessary (through periodic reviews of fund investments and the delegate's procedures in connection with investment decisions, periodic review of the delegate's liquidity fee determinations under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and prompt review of the adviser's actions in the event of the default of a security or event of insolvency with respect to the issuer of the security or any guarantee or demand feature to which it is subject that requires notification of the Commission under paragraph (f)(2) of this section by reference to Form N-CR (§ 274.222 of this chapter) to assure that the guidelines and procedures are being followed.
[79 FR 47958, Aug. 14, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 58153, Sept. 25, 2015; 88 FR 51521, Aug. 3, 2023]
§ 270.2a19-2
Investment company general partners not deemed interested persons.

# Preliminary Note to § 270.2
a

# 19-2:
This § 270.2a19-2 conditionally excepts from the definition of interested person in section 2(a)(19) (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)) general partners of investment companies organized in limited partnership form. Compliance with the conditions of this § 270.2a19-2 does not relieve an investment company of any other requirement of this Act, or except a general partner that is an interested person by virtue of any other provision.
(a)
Director General Partners Not Deemed Interested Persons.
A general partner serving as a director of a limited partnership investment company shall not be deemed to be an interested person of such company, or of any investment adviser of, or principal underwriter for, such company, solely by reason of being a partner of the limited partnership investment company, or a copartner in the limited partnership investment company with any investment adviser of, or principal underwriter for, the company,
provided
that the Limited Partnership Agreement contains in substance the following:
(1) Only general partners who are natural persons shall serve as, and perform the functions of, directors of the limited partnership investment company, except that any general partner may act as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(2) A general partner shall not have the authority to act individually on behalf of, or to bind, the Limited Partnership Investment Company, except:
(i) In such person's capacity as investment adviser, principal underwriter, or administrator;
(ii) Within the scope of such person's authority as delegated by the board of directors; or
(iii) In the event that no director of the company remains, to the extent necessary to continue the Limited Partnership Investment Company, for such limited periods as are permitted under the Act to fill director vacancies.
(3) Limited partners shall have all of the rights afforded shareholders under the Act. If a limited partnership interest is transferred in a manner that is effective under the Partnership Agreement, the transferee shall have all of the rights afforded shareholders under the Act.
(4) A general partner shall not withdraw from the Limited Partnership Investment Company or reduce its Federal Tax Status Contribution without giving at least one year's prior written notice to the Limited Partnership Investment Company, if such withdrawal or reduction is likely to cause the company to lose its partnership tax classification. This paragraph (a)(4) shall not apply to an investment adviser general partner if the company terminates its advisory agreement with such general partner.
(b)
Definitions.
(1) “Federal Tax Status Contribution” shall mean the interest (including limited partnership interest) in each material item of partnership income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit, and other contributions, required to be held or made by general partners, pursuant to section 4 of Internal Revenue Service Revenue Procedure 89-12, or any successor provisions thereto.
(2) “Limited Partnership Investment Company” shall mean a registered management company or a business development company that is organized as a limited partnership under state law.
(3) “Partnership Agreement” shall mean the agreement of the partners of the Limited Partnership Investment Company as to the affairs of the limited partnership and the conduct of its business.
[58 FR 45838, Aug. 31, 1993; 58 FR 64353, Dec. 6, 1993; 59 FR 15501, Apr. 1, 1994]
§ 270.2a19-3
Certain investment company directors not considered interested persons because of ownership of index fund securities.
If a director of a registered investment company (“Fund”) owns shares of a registered investment company (including the Fund) with an investment objective to replicate the performance of one or more broad-based securities indices (“Index Fund”), ownership of the Index Fund shares will not cause the director to be considered an “interested person” of the Fund or of the Fund's investment adviser or principal underwriter (as defined by section 2(a)(19)(A)(iii) and (B)(iii) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)(A)(iii) and (B)(iii)).
[66 FR 3758, Jan. 16, 2001]
§ 270.2a41-1
Valuation of standby commitments by registered investment companies.
(a) A standby commitment means a right to sell a specified underlying security or securities within a specified period of time and at an exercise price equal to the amortized cost of the underlying security or securities plus accrued interest, if any, at the time of exercise, that may be sold, transferred or assigned only with the underlying security or securities. A standby commitment entitles the holder to receive same day settlement, and will be considered to be from the party to whom the investment company will look for payment of the exercise price. A standby commitment may be assigned a fair value of zero, Provided, That:
(1) The standby commitment is not used to affect the company's valuation of the security or securities underlying the standby commitment; and
(2) Any consideration paid by the company for the standby commitment, whether paid in cash or by paying a premium for the underlying security or securities, is accounted for by the company as unrealized depreciation until the standby commitment is exercised or expires.
(b) [Reserved]
[51 FR 9779, Mar. 21, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 8128, Feb. 27, 1991; 61 FR 13982, Mar. 28, 1996; 62 FR 64986, Dec. 9, 1997]
§ 270.2a-46
Certain issuers as eligible portfolio companies.
The term
eligible portfolio company
shall include any issuer that meets the requirements set forth in paragraphs (A) and (B) of section 2(a)(46) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(46)(A) and (B)) and that:
(a) Does not have any class of securities listed on a national securities exchange; or
(b) Has a class of securities listed on a national securities exchange, but has an aggregate market value of outstanding voting and non-voting common equity of less than $250 million. For purposes of this paragraph:
(1) The
aggregate market value
of an issuer's outstanding voting and non-voting common equity shall be computed by use of the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of such common equity, in the principal market for such common equity as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of acquisition of its securities by a business development company; and
(2)
Common equity
has the same meaning as in 17 CFR 230.405.
[73 FR 29051, May 20, 2008]
§ 270.2a51-1
Definition of investments for purposes of section 2(a)(51) (definition of “qualified purchaser”); certain calculations.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1) The term
Commodity Interests
means commodity futures contracts, options on commodity futures contracts, and options on physical commodities traded on or subject to the rules of:
(i) Any contract market designated for trading such transactions under the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules thereunder; or
(ii) Any board of trade or exchange outside the United States, as contemplated in Part 30 of the rules under the Commodity Exchange Act [17 CFR 30.1 through 30.11].
(2) The term
Family Company
means a company described in paragraph (A)(ii) of section 2(a)(51) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)].
(3) The term
Investment Vehicle
means an investment company, a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusions provided by sections 3(c)(1) through 3(c)(9) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) through 3(c)(9)] or the exemptions provided by §§ 270.3a-6 or 270.3a-7, or a commodity pool.
(4) The term
Investments
has the meaning set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(5) The term
Physical Commodity
means any physical commodity with respect to which a Commodity Interest is traded on a market specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(6) The term
Prospective Qualified Purchaser
means a person seeking to purchase a security of a Section 3(c)(7) Company.
(7) The term
Public Company
means a company that:
(i) Files reports pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)]; or
(ii) Has a class of securities that are listed on a “designated offshore securities market” as such term is defined by Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933 [17 CFR 230.901 through 230.904].
(8) The term
Related Person
means a person who is related to a Prospective Qualified Purchaser as a sibling, spouse or former spouse, or is a direct lineal descendant or ancestor by birth or adoption of the Prospective Qualified Purchaser, or is a spouse of such descendant or ancestor,
provided that,
in the case of a Family Company, a Related Person includes any owner of the Family Company and any person who is a Related Person of such owner.
(9) The term
Relying Person
means a Section 3(c)(7) Company or a person acting on its behalf.
(10) The term
Section 3(c)(7) Company
means a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(7) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)].
(b)
Types of Investments.
For purposes of section 2(a)(51) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)], the term
Investments
means:
(1) Securities (as defined by section 2(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(1)]), other than securities of an issuer that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Prospective Qualified Purchaser that owns such securities, unless the issuer of such securities is:
(i) An Investment Vehicle;
(ii) A Public Company; or
(iii) A company with shareholders' equity of not less than $50 million (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) as reflected on the company's most recent financial statements,
provided that
such financial statements present the information as of a date within 16 months preceding the date on which the Prospective Qualified Purchaser acquires the securities of a Section 3(c)(7) Company;
(2) Real estate held for investment purposes;
(3) Commodity Interests held for investment purposes;
(4) Physical Commodities held for investment purposes;
(5) To the extent not securities, financial contracts (as such term is defined in section 3(c)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(2)(B)(ii)] entered into for investment purposes;
(6) In the case of a Prospective Qualified Purchaser that is a Section 3(c)(7) Company, a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(1) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)], or a commodity pool, any amounts payable to such Prospective Qualified Purchaser pursuant to a firm agreement or similar binding commitment pursuant to which a person has agreed to acquire an interest in, or make capital contributions to, the Prospective Qualified Purchaser upon the demand of the Prospective Qualified Purchaser; and
(7) Cash and cash equivalents (including foreign currencies) held for investment purposes. For purposes of this section, cash and cash equivalents include:
(i) Bank deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers acceptances and similar bank instruments held for investment purposes; and
(ii) The net cash surrender value of an insurance policy.
(c)
Investment Purposes.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Real estate shall not be considered to be held for investment purposes by a Prospective Qualified Purchaser if it is used by the Prospective Qualified Purchaser or a Related Person for personal purposes or as a place of business, or in connection with the conduct of the trade or business of the Prospective Qualified Purchaser or a Related Person,
provided that
real estate owned by a Prospective Qualified Purchaser who is engaged primarily in the business of investing, trading or developing real estate in connection with such business may de deemed to be held for investment purposes. Residential real estate shall not be deemed to be used for personal purposes if deductions with respect to such real estate are not disallowed by section 280A of the Internal Revenue Code [26 U.S.C. 280A].
(2) A Commodity Interest or Physical Commodity owned, or a financial contract entered into, by the Prospective Qualified Purchaser who is engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in Commodity Interests, Physical Commodities or financial contracts in connection with such business may be deemed to be held for investment purposes.
(d)
Valuation.
For purposes of determining whether a Prospective Qualified Purchaser is a qualified purchaser, the aggregate amount of Investments owned and invested on a discretionary basis by the Prospective Qualified Purchaser shall be the Investments' fair market value on the most recent practicable date or their cost,
provided that:
(1) In the case of Commodity Interests, the amount of Investments shall be the value of the initial margin or option premium deposited in connection with such Commodity Interests; and
(2) In each case, there shall be deducted from the amount of Investments owned by the Prospective Qualified Purchaser the amounts specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, as applicable.
(e)
Deductions.
In determining whether any person is a qualified purchaser there shall be deducted from the amount of such person's Investments
the amount of any outstanding indebtedness incurred to acquire or for the purpose of acquiring the Investments owned by such person.
(f)
Deductions: Family Companies.
In determining whether a Family Company is a qualified purchaser, in addition to the amounts specified in paragraph (e) of this section, there shall be deducted from the value of such Family Company's Investments any outstanding indebtedness incurred by an owner of the Family Company to acquire such Investments.
(g)
Special rules for certain Prospective Qualified Purchasers
—1)
Qualified institutional buyers.
Any Prospective Qualified Purchaser who is, or who a Relying Person reasonably believes is, a qualified institutional buyer as defined in paragraph (a) of § 230.144A of this chapter, acting for its own account, the account of another qualified institutional buyer, or the account of a qualified purchaser, shall be deemed to be a qualified purchaser
provided:
(i) That a dealer described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of § 230.144A of this chapter shall own and invest on a discretionary basis at least $25 million in securities of issuers that are not affiliated persons of the dealer; and
(ii) That a plan referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(D) or (a)(1)(i)(E) of § 230.144A of this chapter, or a trust fund referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(F) of § 230.144A of this chapter that holds the assets of such a plan, will not be deemed to be acting for its own account if investment decisions with respect to the plan are made by the beneficiaries of the plan, except with respect to investment decisions made solely by the fiduciary, trustee or sponsor of such plan.
(2)
Joint Investments.
In determining whether a natural person is a qualified purchaser, there may be included in the amount of such person's Investments any Investments held jointly with such person's spouse, or Investments in which such person shares with such person's spouse a community property or similar shared ownership interest. In determining whether spouses who are making a joint investment in a Section 3(c)(7) Company are qualified purchasers, there may be included in the amount of each spouse's Investments any Investments owned by the other spouse (whether or not such Investments are held jointly). In each case, there shall be deducted from the amount of any such Investments the amounts specified in paragraph (e) of this section incurred by each spouse.
(3)
Investments by Subsidiaries.
For purposes of determining the amount of Investments owned by a company under section 2(a)(51)(A)(iv) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(A)(iv)], there may be included Investments owned by majority-owned subsidiaries of the company and Investments owned by a company (“Parent Company”) of which the company is a majority-owned subsidiary, or by a majority-owned subsidiary of the company and other majority-owned subsidiaries of the Parent Company.
(4)
Certain Retirement Plans and Trusts.
In determining whether a natural person is a qualified purchaser, there may be included in the amount of such person's Investments any Investments held in an individual retirement account or similar account the Investments of which are directed by and held for the benefit of such person.
(h)
Reasonable Belief.
The term “qualified purchaser” as used in section 3(c)(7) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)] means any person that meets the definition of qualified purchaser in section 2(a)(51)(A) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(A)]) and the rules thereunder, or that a Relying Person reasonably believes meets such definition.
[62 FR 17526, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 270.2a51-2
Definitions of beneficial owner for certain purposes under sections 2(a)(51) and 3(c)(7) and determining indirect ownership interests.
(a)
Beneficial ownership: General.
Except as set forth in this section, for purposes of sections 2(a)(51)(C) and 3(c)(7)(B)(ii) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(C) and -3(c)(7)(B)(ii)], the beneficial owners of securities of an excepted investment company (as defined in section 2(a)(51)(C) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(C)]) shall be determined in accordance with section 3(c)(1) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)].
(b)
Beneficial ownership: Grandfather provision.
For purposes of section
3(c)(7)(B)(ii) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)(B)(ii)], securities of an issuer beneficially owned by a company (without giving effect to section 3(c)(1)(A) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)(A)]) (“owning company”) shall be deemed to be beneficially owned by one person unless:
(1) The owning company is an investment company or an excepted investment company;
(2) The owning company, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the issuer; and
(3) On October 11, 1996, under section 3(c)(1)(A) of the Act as then in effect, the voting securities of the issuer were deemed to be beneficially owned by the holders of the owning company's outstanding securities (other than short-term paper), in which case, such holders shall be deemed to be beneficial owners of the issuer's outstanding voting securities.
(c)
Beneficial ownership: Consent provision.
For purposes of section 2(a)(51)(C) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(C)], securities of an excepted investment company beneficially owned by a company (without giving effect to section 3(c)(1)(A) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)(A)]) (“owning company”) shall be deemed to be beneficially owned by one person unless:
(1) The owning company is an excepted investment company;
(2) The owning company directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the excepted investment company or the company with respect to which the excepted investment company is, or will be, a qualified purchaser; and
(3) On April 30, 1996, under section 3(c)(1)(A) of the Act as then in effect, the voting securities of the excepted investment company were deemed to be beneficially owned by the holders of the owning company's outstanding securities (other than short-term paper), in which case the holders of such excepted company's securities shall be deemed to be beneficial owners of the excepted investment company's outstanding voting securities.
(d)
Indirect ownership: Consent provision.
For purposes of section 2(a)(51)(C) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(C)], an excepted investment company shall not be deemed to indirectly own the securities of an excepted investment company seeking a consent to be treated as a qualified purchaser (“qualified purchaser company”) unless such excepted investment company, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the qualified purchaser company or a company with respect to which the qualified purchaser company is or will be a qualified purchaser.
(e)
Required consent: Consent provision.
For purposes of section 2(a)(51)(C) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(C)], the consent of the beneficial owners of an excepted investment company (“owning company”) that beneficially owns securities of an excepted investment company that is seeking the consents required by section 2(a)(51)(C) (“consent company”) shall not be required unless the owning company directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the consent company or the company with respect to which the consent company is, or will be, a qualified purchaser.

# Notes to § 270.2
a

# 51-2:
1. On both April 30, 1996 and October 11, 1996, section 3(c)(1)(A) of the Act as then in effect provided that: (A) Beneficial ownership by a company shall be deemed to be beneficial ownership by one person, except that, if the company owns 10 per centum or more of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer, the beneficial ownership shall be deemed to be that of the holders of such company's outstanding securities (other than short-term paper) unless, as of the date of the most recent acquisition by such company of securities of that issuer, the value of all securities owned by such company of all issuers which are or would, but for the exception set forth in this subparagraph, be excluded from the definition of investment company solely by this paragraph, does not exceed 10 per centum of the value of the company's total assets. Such issuer nonetheless is deemed to be an investment company for purposes of section 12(d)(1).
2. Issuers seeking the consent required by section 2(a)(51)(C) of the Act should note that section 2(a)(51)(C) requires an issuer to obtain the consent of the beneficial owners of its securities and the beneficial owners of securities of any “excepted investment company” that directly or indirectly owns the securities of the issuer. Except as set forth in paragraphs (d) (with respect to indirect
owners) and (e) (with respect to direct owners) of this section, nothing in this section is designed to limit this consent requirement.
[62 FR 17528, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 270.2a51-3
Certain companies as qualified purchasers.
(a) For purposes of section 2(a)(51)(A) (ii) and (iv) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)(A) (ii) and (iv)], a company shall not be deemed to be a qualified purchaser if it was formed for the specific purpose of acquiring the securities offered by a company excluded from the definition of investment company by section 3(c)(7) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)] unless each beneficial owner of the company's securities is a qualified purchaser.
(b) For purposes of section 2(a)(51) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51)], a company may be deemed to be a qualified purchaser if each beneficial owner of the company's securities is a qualified purchaser.
[62 FR 17528, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 270.3a-1
Certain prima facie investment companies.
Notwithstanding section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(c)), an issuer will be deemed not to be an investment company under the Act;
Provided,
That:
(a) No more than 45 percent of the value (as defined in section 2(a)(41) of the Act) of such issuer's total assets (exclusive of Government securities and cash items) consists of, and no more than 45 percent of such issuer's net income after taxes (for the last four fiscal quarters combined) is derived from, securites other than:
(1) Government securities;
(2) Securities issued by employees' securities companies;
(3) Securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries of the issuer (other than subsidiaries relying on the exclusion from the definition of investment company in section 3(b)(3) or (c)(1) of the Act) which are not investment companies; and
(4) Securities issued by companies:
(i) Which are controlled primarily by such issuer;
(ii) Through which such issuer engages in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities; and
(iii) Which are not investment companies;
(b) The issuer is not an investment company as defined in section 3(a)(1)(A) or 3(a)(1)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(A) or 80a-3(a)(1)(B)) and is not a special situation investment company; and
(c) The percentages described in paragraph (a) of this section are determined on an unconsolidated basis, except that the issuer shall consolidate its financial statements with the financial statements of any wholly-owned subsidiaries.
[46 FR 6881, Jan. 22, 1981, as amended at 67 FR 43536, June 28, 2002]
§ 270.3a-2
Transient investment companies.
(a) For purposes of sections 3(a)(1)(A) and 3(a)(1)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(A) and 80a-3(a)(1)(C)), an issuer is deemed not to be engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities during a period of time not to exceed one year;
Provided,
That the issuer has a
bona fide
intent to be engaged primarily, as soon as is reasonably possible (in any event by the termination of such period of time), in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities, such intent to be evidenced by:
(1) The issuer's business activities; and
(2) An appropriate resolution of the issuer's board of directors, or by an appropriate action of the person or persons performing similar functions for any issuer not having a board of directors, which resolution or action has been recorded contemporaneously in its minute books or comparable documents.
(b) For purposes of this rule, the period of time described in paragraph (a) shall commence on the earlier of:
(1) The date on which an issuer owns securities and/or cash having a value exceeding 50 percent of the value of such issuer's total assets on either a consolidated or unconsolidated basis; or
(2) The date on which an issuer owns or proposes to acquire investment securities (as defined in section 3(a) of the Act) having a value exceeding 40 per centum of the value of such issuer's total assets (exclusive of Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis.
(c) No issuer may rely on this section more frequently than once during any three-year period.
[46 FR 6883, Jan. 22, 1981, as amended at 67 FR 43536, June 28, 2002]
§ 270.3a-3
Certain investment companies owned by companies which are not investment companies.
Notwithstanding section 3(a)(1)(A) or section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(A) or 80a-3(a)(1)(C)), an issuer will be deemed not to be an investment company for purposes of the Act;
Provided,
That all of the outstanding securities of the issuer (other than short-term paper, directors' qualifying shares, and debt securities owned by the Small Business Administration) are directly or indirectly owned by a company which satisfies the conditions of § 270.3a-1(a) and which is:
(a) A company that is not an investment company as defined in section 3(a) of the Act;
(b) A company that is an investment company as defined in section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(C)), but which is excluded from the definition of the term “investment company” by section 3(b)(1) or 3(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(b)(1) or 80a-3(b)(2)); or
(c) A company that is deemed not to be an investment company for purposes of the Act by rule 3a-1.
[46 FR 6884, Jan. 22, 1981, as amended at 67 FR 43536, June 28, 2002]
§ 270.3a-4
Status of investment advisory programs.

# Note:
This section is a nonexclusive safe harbor from the definition of investment company for programs that provide discretionary investment advisory services to clients. There is no registration requirement under section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77e] with respect to programs that are organized and operated in the manner described in § 270.3a-4. The section is not intended, however, to create any presumption about a program that is not organized and operated in the manner contemplated by the section.
(a) Any program under which discretionary investment advisory services are provided to clients that has the following characteristics will not be deemed to be an investment company within the meaning of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a,
et seq.
]:
(1) Each client's account in the program is managed on the basis of the client's financial situation and investment objectives and in accordance with any reasonable restrictions imposed by the client on the management of the account.
(2)(i) At the opening of the account, the sponsor or another person designated by the sponsor obtains information from the client regarding the client's financial situation and investment objectives, and gives the client the opportunity to impose reasonable restrictions on the management of the account;
(ii) At least annually, the sponsor or another person designated by the sponsor contacts the client to determine whether there have been any changes in the client's financial situation or investment objectives, and whether the client wishes to impose any reasonable restrictions on the management of the account or reasonably modify existing restrictions;
(iii) At least quarterly, the sponsor or another person designated by the sponsor notifies the client in writing to contact the sponsor or such other person if there have been any changes in the client's financial situation or investment objectives, or if the client wishes to impose any reasonable restrictions on the management of the client's account or reasonably modify existing restrictions, and provides the client with a means through which such contact may be made; and
(iv) The sponsor and personnel of the manager of the client's account who are knowledgeable about the account and its management are reasonably available to the client for consultation.
(3) Each client has the ability to impose reasonable restrictions on the management of the client's account, including the designation of particular securities or types of securities that
should not be purchased for the account, or that should be sold if held in the account;
Provided, however,
that nothing in this section requires that a client have the ability to require that particular securities or types of securities be purchased for the account.
(4) The sponsor or person designated by the sponsor provides each client with a statement, at least quarterly, containing a description of all activity in the client's account during the preceding period, including all transactions made on behalf of the account, all contributions and withdrawals made by the client, all fees and expenses charged to the account, and the value of the account at the beginning and end of the period.
(5) Each client retains, with respect to all securities and funds in the account, to the same extent as if the client held the securities and funds outside the program, the right to:
(i) Withdraw securities or cash;
(ii) Vote securities, or delegate the authority to vote securities to another person;
(iii) Be provided in a timely manner with a written confirmation or other notification of each securities transaction, and all other documents required by law to be provided to security holders; and
(iv) Proceed directly as a security holder against the issuer of any security in the client's account and not be obligated to join any person involved in the operation of the program, or any other client of the program, as a condition precedent to initiating such proceeding.
(b) As used in this section, the term sponsor refers to any person who receives compensation for sponsoring, organizing or administering the program, or for selecting, or providing advice to clients regarding the selection of, persons responsible for managing the client's account in the program. If a program has more than one sponsor, one person shall be designated the principal sponsor, and such person shall be considered the sponsor of the program under this section.
[62 FR 15109, Mar. 31, 1997]
§ 270.3a-5
Exemption for subsidiaries organized to finance the operations of domestic or foreign companies.
(a) A finance subsidiary will not be considered an investment company under section 3(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) and securities of a finance subsidiary held by the parent company or a company controlled by the parent company will not be considered “investment securities” under section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(C));
Provided,
That:
(1) Any debt securities of the finance subsidiary issued to or held by the public are unconditionally guaranteed by the parent company as to the payment of principal, interest, and premium, if any (except that the guarantee may be subordinated in right of payment to other debt of the parent company);
(2) Any non-voting preferred stock of the finance subsidiary issued to or held by the public is unconditionally guaranteed by the parent company as to payment of dividends, payment of the liquidation preference in the event of liquidation, and payments to be made under a sinking fund, if a sinking fund is to be provided (except that the guarantee may be subordinated in right of payment to other debt of the parent company);
(3) The parent company's guarantee provides that in the event of a default in payment of principal, interest, premium, dividends, liquidation preference or payments made under a sinking fund on any debt securities or non-voting preferred stock issued by the finance subsidiary, the holders of those securities may institute legal proceedings directly against the parent company (or, in the case of a partnership or joint venture, against the partners or participants in the joint venture) to enforce the guarantee without first proceeding against the finance subsidiary;
(4) Any securities issued by the finance subsidiary which are convertible or exchangeable are convertible or exchangeable only for securities issued by the parent company (and, in the case of a partnership or joint venture, for securities issued by the partners or participants in the joint venture) or for debt securities or non-voting preferred stock issued by the finance subsidiary
meeting the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3);
(5) The finance subsidiary invests in or loans to its parent company or a company controlled by its parent company at least 85% of any cash or cash equivalents raised by the finance subsidiary through an offering of its debt securities or non-voting preferred stock or through other borrowings as soon as practicable, but in no event later than six months after the finance subsidiary's receipt of such cash or cash equivalents;
(6) The finance subsidiary does not invest in, reinvest in, own, hold or trade in securities other than Government securities, securities of its parent company or a company controlled by its parent company (or in the case of a partnership or joint venture, the securities of the partners or participants in the joint venture) or debt securities (including repurchase agreements) which are exempted from the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 by section 3(a)(3) of that Act; and
(7) Where the parent company is a foreign bank as the term is used in rule 3a-6 (17 CFR 270.3a-6 of this chapter), the parent company may, in lieu of the guaranty required by paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, issue, in favor of the holders of the finance subsidiary's debt securities or non-voting preferred stock, as the case may be, an irrevocable letter of credit in an amount sufficient to fund all of the amounts required to be guaranteed by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section,
provided,
that:
(i) Payment on such letter of credit shall be conditional only upon the presentation of customary documentation, and
(ii) The beneficiary of such letter of credit is not required by either the letter of credit or applicable law to institute proceedings against the finance subsidiary before enforcing its remedies under the letter of credit.
(b) For purposes of this rule,
(1) A
finance subsidiary
shall mean any corporation—
(i) All of whose securities other than debt securities or non-voting preferred stock meeting the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) or directors' qualifying shares are owned by its parent company or a company controlled by its parent company; and
(ii) The primary purpose of which is to finance the business operations of its parent company or companies controlled by its parent company;
(2) A
parent company
shall mean any corporation, partnership or joint venture:
(i) That is not considered an investment company under section 3(a) or that is excepted or exempted by order from the definition of investment company by section 3(b) or by the rules or regulations under section 3(a);
(ii) That is organized or formed under the laws of the United States or of a state or that is a foreign private issuer, or that is a foreign bank or foreign insurance company as those terms are used in rule 3a-6 (17 CFR 270.3a-6 of this chapter); and
(iii) In the case of a partnership or joint venture, each partner or participant in the joint venture meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii).
(3) A
company controlled by the parent company
shall mean any corporation, partnership or joint venture:
(i) That is not considered an investment company under section 3(a) or that is excepted or exempted by order from the definition of investment company by section 3(b) or by the rules or regulations under section 3(a);
(ii) That is either organized or formed under the laws of the United States or of a state or that is a foreign private issuer, or that is a foreign bank or foreign insurance company as those terms are used in rule 3a-6; and
(iii) In the case of a corporation, more than 25 percent of whose outstanding voting securities are beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the parent company; or
(iv) In the case of a partnership or joint venture, each partner or participant in the joint venture meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) (i) and (ii), and the parent company has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the partnership or joint venture.
(4) A
foreign private issuer
shall mean any issuer which is incorporated or organized under the laws of a foreign
country, but not a foreign government or political subdivision of a foreign government.
[49 FR 49446, Dec. 20, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 56299, Nov. 4, 1991; 67 FR 43536, June 28, 2002]
§ 270.3a-6
Foreign banks and foreign insurance companies.
(a) Notwithstanding section 3(a)(1)(A) or section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(A) or 80a-3(a)(1)(C)), a foreign bank or foreign insurance company shall not be considered an investment company for purposes of the Act.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1)(i)
Foreign bank
means a banking institution incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States, or a political subdivision of a country other than the United States, that is:
(A) Regulated as such by that country's or subdivision's government or any agency thereof;
(B) Engaged substantially in commercial banking activity; and
(C) Not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of the Act;
(ii) The term
foreign bank
shall also include:
(A) A trust company or loan company that is:
(
1
) Organized or incorporated under the laws of Canada or a political subdivision thereof;
(
2
) Regulated as a trust company or a loan company by that country's or subdivision's government or any agency thereof; and
(
3
) Not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of the Act; and
(B) A building society that is:
(
1
) Organized under the laws of the United Kingdom or a political subdivision thereof;
(
2
) Regulated as a building society by the country's or subdivision's government or any agency thereof; and
(
3
) Not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of the Act.
(iii) Nothing in this section shall be construed to include within the definition of
foreign bank
a common or collective trust or other separate pool of assets organized in the form of a trust or otherwise in which interests are separately offered.
(2)
Engaged substantially in commercial banking activity
means engaged regularly in, and deriving a substantial portion of its business from, extending commercial and other types of credit, and accepting demand and other types of deposits, that are customary for commercial banks in the country in which the head office of the banking institution is located.
(3)
Foreign insurance company
means an insurance company incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States, or a political subdivision of a country other than the United States, that is:
(i) Regulated as such by that country's or subdivision's government or any agency thereof;
(ii) Engaged primarily and predominantly in:
(A) The writing of insurance agreements of the type specified in section 3(a)(8) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(8)), except for the substitution of supervision by foreign government insurance regulators for the regulators referred to in that section; or
(B) The reinsurance of risks on such agreements underwritten by insurance companies; and
(iii) Not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of the Act. Nothing in this section shall be construed to include within the definition of “foreign insurance company” a separate account or other pool of assets organized in the form of a trust or otherwise in which interests are separately offered.

# Note:
Foreign banks and foreign insurance companies (and certain of their finance subsidiaries and holding companies) relying on rule 3a-6 for exemption from the Act may be required by rule 489 (17 CFR 230.489) under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) to file Form F-N with the Commission in connection with the filing of a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933.
[56 FR 56299, Nov. 4, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 43536, June 28, 2002]
§ 270.3a-7
Issuers of asset-backed securities.
(a) Notwithstanding section 3(a) of the Act, any issuer who is engaged in
the business of purchasing, or otherwise acquiring, and holding eligible assets (and in activities related or incidental thereto), and who does not issue redeemable securities will not be deemed to be an investment company;
Provided That:
(1) The issuer issues fixed-income securities or other securities which entitle their holders to receive payments that depend primarily on the cash flow from eligible assets;
(2) Securities sold by the issuer or any underwriter thereof are fixed-income securities rated, at the time of initial sale, in one of the four highest categories assigned long-term debt or in an equivalent short-term category (within either of which there may be sub-categories or gradations indicating relative standing) by at least one nationally recognized statistical rating organization that is not an affiliated person of the issuer or of any person involved in the organization or operation of the issuer, except that:
(i) Any fixed-income securities may be sold to accredited investors as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (7) of rule 501(a) under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230.501(a)) and any entity in which all of the equity owners come within such paragraphs; and
(ii) Any securities may be sold to qualified institutional buyers as defined in rule 144A under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.144A) and to persons (other than any rating organization rating the issuer's securities) involved in the organization or operation of the issuer or an affiliate, as defined in rule 405 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.405), of such a person;
Provided,
That the issuer or any underwriter thereof effecting such sale exercises reasonable care to ensure that such securities are sold and will be resold to persons specified in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section;
(3) The issuer acquires additional eligible assets, or disposes of eligible assets, only if:
(i) The assets are acquired or disposed of in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the agreements, indentures, or other instruments pursuant to which the issuer's securities are issued;
(ii) The acquisition or disposition of the assets does not result in a downgrading in the rating of the issuer's outstanding fixed-income securities; and
(iii) The assets are not acquired or disposed of for the primary purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes; and
(4) If the issuer issues any securities other than securities exempted from the Securities Act by section 3(a)(3) thereof (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(3)), the issuer:
(i) Appoints a trustee that meets the requirements of section 26(a)(1) of the Act and that is not affiliated, as that term is defined in rule 405 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.405), with the issuer or with any person involved in the organization or operation of the issuer, which does not offer or provide credit or credit enhancement to the issuer, and that executes an agreement or instrument concerning the issuer's securities containing provisions to the effect set forth in section 26(a)(3) of the Act;
(ii) Takes reasonable steps to cause the trustee to have a perfected security interest or ownership interest valid against third parties in those eligible assets that principally generate the cash flow needed to pay the fixed-income security holders, provided that such assets otherwise required to be held by the trustee may be released to the extent needed at the time for the operation of the issuer; and
(iii) Takes actions necessary for the cash flows derived from eligible assets for the benefit of the holders of fixed-income securities to be deposited periodically in a segregated account that is maintained or controlled by the trustee consistent with the rating of the outstanding fixed-income securities.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Eligible assets
means financial assets, either fixed or revolving, that by their terms convert into cash within a finite time period plus any rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to security holders.
(2)
Fixed-income securities
means any securities that entitle the holder to receive:
(i) A stated principal amount; or
(ii) Interest on a principal amount (which may be a notional principal amount) calculated by reference to a fixed rate or to a standard or formula which does not reference any change in the market value or fair value of eligible assets; or
(iii) Interest on a principal amount (which may be a notional principal amount) calculated by reference to auctions among holders and prospective holders, or through remarketing of the security; or
(iv) An amount equal to specified fixed or variable portions of the interest received on the assets held by the issuer; or
(v) Any combination of amounts described in paragraphs (b)(2) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section;
Provided,
That substantially all of the payments to which the holders of such securities are entitled consist of the foregoing amounts.
[57 FR 56256, Nov. 27, 1992]
§ 270.3a-8
Certain research and development companies.
(a) Notwithstanding sections 3(a)(1)(A) and 3(a)(1)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)(1)(A) and 80a-3(a)(1)(C)), an issuer will be deemed not to be an investment company if:
(1) Its research and development expenses, for the last four fiscal quarters combined, are a substantial percentage of its total expense for the same period;
(2) Its net income derived from investments in securities, for the last four fiscal quarters combined, does not exceed twice the amount of its research and development expenses for the same period;
(3) Its expenses for investment advisory and management activities, investment research and custody, for the last four fiscal quarters, combined, do not exceed five percent of its total expenses for the same period;
(4) Its investments in securities are capital preservation investments, except that:
(i) No more than 10 percent of the issuer's total assets may consist of other investments, or
(ii) No more than 25 percent of the issuer's total assets may consist of other investments, provided that at least 75 percent of such other investments are investments made pursuant to a collaborative research and development arrangement;
(5) It does not hold itself out as being engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and it is not a special situation investment company;
(6) It is primarily engaged, directly, through majority-owned subsidiaries, or through companies which it controls primarily, in a business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities, as evidenced by:
(i) The activities of its officers, directors and employees;
(ii) Its public representations of policies;
(iii) Its historical development; and
(iv) An appropriate resolution of its board of directors, which resolution or action has been recorded contemporaneously in its minute books or comparable documents; and
(7) Its board of directors has adopted a written investment policy with respect to the issuer's capital preservation investments.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1) All assets shall be valued in accordance with section 2(a)(41)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(41)(A));
(2) The percentages described in this section are determined on an unconsolidated basis, except that the issuer shall consolidate its financial statements with the financial statements of any wholly-owned subsidiaries;
(3)
Board of directors
means the issuer's board of directors or an appropriate person or persons performing similar functions for any issuer not having a board of directors;
(4)
Capital preservation investment
means an investment that is made to conserve capital and liquidity until the funds are used in the issuer's primary business or businesses;
(5)
Controlled primarily
means controlled within the meaning of section 2(a)(9) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(9)) with a degree of control that is greater than that of any other person;
(6)
Investment made pursuant to a collaborative research and development arrangement
means an investment in an investee made pursuant to a business relationship which:
(i) Is designed to achieve narrowly focused goals that are directly related to, and an integral part of, the issue's research and development activities;
(ii) Calls for the issuer to conduct joint research and development activities with the investee or a company controlled primarily by, or which controls primarily, the investee; and
(iii) Is not entered into for the purpose of avoiding regulation under the Act;
(7)
Investments in securities
means all securities other than securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries and companies controlled primarily by the issuer that conduct similar types of businesses, through which the issuer is engaged primarily in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities;
(8)
Other investment
means an investment in securities that is not a capital preservation investment; and
(9)
Research and development expenses
means research and development costs as defined in FASB ASC Topic 730,
Research and Development
, as currently in effect or as it may be subsequently revised.
[68 FR 37052, June 20, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 50123, Aug. 12, 2011]
§ 270.3a-9
Crowdfunding vehicle.
(a) Notwithstanding section 3(a) of the Act, a crowdfunding vehicle will be deemed not to be an investment company if the vehicle:
(1) Is organized and operated for the sole purpose of directly acquiring, holding, and disposing of securities issued by a single crowdfunding issuer and raising capital in one or more offerings made in compliance with §§ 227.100 through 227.504 (Regulation Crowdfunding);
(2) Does not borrow money and uses the proceeds from the sale of its securities solely to purchase a single class of securities of a single crowdfunding issuer;
(3) Issues only one class of securities in one or more offerings under Regulation Crowdfunding in which the crowdfunding vehicle and the crowdfunding issuer are deemed to be co-issuers under the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
);
(4) Receives a written undertaking from the crowdfunding issuer to fund or reimburse the expenses associated with its formation, operation, or winding up, receives no other compensation, and any compensation paid to any person operating the vehicle is paid solely by the crowdfunding issuer;
(5) Maintains the same fiscal year-end as the crowdfunding issuer;
(6) Maintains a one-to-one relationship between the number, denomination, type and rights of crowdfunding issuer securities it owns and the number, denomination, type and rights of its securities outstanding;
(7) Seeks instructions from the holders of its securities with regard to:
(i) The voting of the crowdfunding issuer securities it holds and votes the crowdfunding issuer securities only in accordance with such instructions; and
(ii) Participating in tender or exchange offers or similar transactions conducted by the crowdfunding issuer and participates in such transactions only in accordance with such instructions;
(8) Receives, from the crowdfunding issuer, all disclosures and other information required under Regulation Crowdfunding and the crowdfunding vehicle promptly provides such disclosures and other information to the investors and potential investors in the crowdfunding vehicle's securities and to the relevant intermediary; and
(9) Provides to each investor the right to direct the crowdfunding vehicle to assert the rights under State and Federal law that the investor would have if he or she had invested directly in the crowdfunding issuer and provides to each investor any information that it receives from the crowdfunding issuer as a shareholder of record of the crowdfunding issuer.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Crowdfunding issuer
means a company that seeks to raise capital as a co-issuer with a crowdfunding vehicle in an offering that complies with all of the requirements under section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and Regulation Crowdfunding.
(2)
Crowdfunding vehicle
means an issuer formed by or on behalf of a crowdfunding issuer for the purpose of
conducting an offering under section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) as a co-issuer with the crowdfunding issuer, which offering is controlled by the crowdfunding issuer.
(3)
Regulation Crowdfunding
means the regulations set forth in §§ 227.100 through 227.504 of this chapter.
[86 FR 3602, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 270.3c-1
Definition of beneficial ownership for certain 3(c)(1) funds.
(a) As used in this section:
(1) The term
Covered Company
means a company that is an investment company, a Section 3(c)(1) Company or a Section 3(c)(7) Company.
(2) The term
Section 3(c)(1) Company
means a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(1) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)].
(3) The term
Section 3(c)(7) Company
means a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(7) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)].
(b) For purposes of section 3(c)(1)(A) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)(A)], beneficial ownership by a Covered Company owning 10 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of a Section 3(c)(1) Company shall be deemed to be beneficial ownership by one person,
provided that:
(1) On April 1, 1997, the Covered Company owned 10 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of the Section 3(c)(1) Company or non-voting securities that, on such date and in accordance with the terms of such securities, were convertible into or exchangeable for voting securities that, if converted or exchanged on or after such date, would have constituted 10 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of the Section 3(c)(1) Company; and
(2) On the date of any acquisition of securities of the Section 3(c)(1) Company by the Covered Company, the value of all securities owned by the Covered Company of all issuers that are Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) Companies does not exceed 10 percent of the Covered Company's total assets.
[62 FR 17529, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 270.3c-2
Definition of beneficial ownership in small business investment companies.
For the purpose of section 3(c)(1) of the Act, beneficial ownership by a company owning 10 per centum or more of the outstanding voting securities of any issuer which is a small business investment company licensed to operate under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, or which has received from the Small Business Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a license, which notice or license has not been revoked, shall be deemed to be beneficial ownership by one person (a) if and so long as the value of all securities of small business investments companies owned by such company does not exceed 5 per centum of the value of its total assets; or (b) if and so long as such stock of the small business investment company shall be owned by a state development corporation which has been created by or pursuant to an act of the State legislature to promote and assist the growth and development of the economy within such State on a state-wide basis:
Provided,
That such State development corporation is not, or as a result of its investment in the small business investment company (considering such investment as an investment security) would not be, an investment company as defined in section 3 of the Act.
(Sec. 6, 74 Stat. 412; 15 U.S.C. 80a-6)
[33 FR 11451, Aug. 13, 1968]
§ 270.3c-3
Definition of certain terms used in section 3(c)(1) of the Act with respect to certain debt securities offered by small business investment companies.
The term
public offering
as used in section 3(c)(1) of the Act shall not be deemed to include the offer and sale by a small business investment company, licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, of any debt security issued by it which is (a) not convertible into, exchangeable for, or accompanied by any equity security, and (b) guaranteed as to timely payment of principal and interest by the Small Business Administration and backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The holders of any securities offered and sold as described in this
section shall be counted, in the aggregate, as one person for purposes of section 3(c)(1) of the Act.
[37 FR 7590, Apr. 18, 1972]
§ 270.3c-4
Definition of “common trust fund” as used in section 3(c)(3) of the Act.
The term
common trust fund
as used in section 3(c)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(3)) shall include a common trust fund which is maintained by a bank which is a member of an affiliated group, as defined in section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 1504(a)), and which is maintained exclusively for the collective investment and reinvestment of monies contributed thereto by one or more bank members of such affiliated group in the capacity of trustee, executor, administrator, or guardian;
Provided,
That:
(a) The common trust fund is operated in compliance with the same State and Federal regulatory requirements as would apply if the bank maintaining such fund and any other contributing banks were the same entity; and
(b) The rights of persons for whose benefit a contributing bank acts as trustee, executor, administrator, or guardian would not be diminished by reason of the maintenance of such common trust fund by another bank member of the affiliated group.
(15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-37(a))
[43 FR 2393, Jan. 17, 1978]
§ 270.3c-5
Beneficial ownership by knowledgeable employees and certain other persons.
(a) As used in this section:
(1) The term
Affiliated Management Person
means an affiliated person, as such term is defined in section 2(a)(3) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(3)], that manages the investment activities of a Covered Company. For purposes of this definition, the term “investment company” as used in section 2(a)(3) of the Act includes a Covered Company.
(2) The term
Covered Company
means a Section 3(c)(1) Company or a Section 3(c)(7) Company.
(3) The term
Executive Officer
means the president, any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as sales, administration or finance), any other officer who performs a policy-making function, or any other person who performs similar policy-making functions, for a Covered Company or for an Affiliated Management Person of the Covered Company.
(4) The term
Knowledgeable Employee
with respect to any Covered Company means any natural person who is:
(i) An Executive Officer, director, trustee, general partner, advisory board member, or person serving in a similar capacity, of the Covered Company or an Affiliated Management Person of the Covered Company; or
(ii) An employee of the Covered Company or an Affiliated Management Person of the Covered Company (other than an employee performing solely clerical, secretarial or administrative functions with regard to such company or its investments) who, in connection with his or her regular functions or duties, participates in the investment activities of such Covered Company, other Covered Companies, or investment companies the investment activities of which are managed by such Affiliated Management Person of the Covered Company,
provided that
such employee has been performing such functions and duties for or on behalf of the Covered Company or the Affiliated Management Person of the Covered Company, or substantially similar functions or duties for or on behalf of another company for at least 12 months.
(5) The term
Section 3(c)(1) Company
means a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(1) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)].
(6) The term
Section 3(c)(7) Company
means a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(7) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)].
(b) For purposes of determining the number of beneficial owners of a Section 3(c)(1) Company, and whether the outstanding securities of a Section 3(c)(7) Company are owned exclusively by qualified purchasers, there shall be excluded securities beneficially owned by:
(1) A person who at the time such securities were acquired was a Knowledgeable Employee of such Company;
(2) A company owned exclusively by Knowledgeable Employees;
(3) Any person who acquires securities originally acquired by a Knowledgeable Employee in accordance with this section, provided that such securities were acquired by such person in accordance with § 270.3c-6
[62 FR 17529, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 270.3c-6
Certain transfers of interests in section 3(c)(1) and section 3(c)(7) funds.
(a) As used in this section:
(1) The term
Donee
means a person who acquires a security of a Covered Company (or a security or other interest in a company referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) as a gift or bequest or pursuant to an agreement relating to a legal separation or divorce.
(2) The term
Section 3(c)(1) Company
means a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(1) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)].
(3) The term
Section 3(c)(7) Company
means a company that would be an investment company but for the exclusion provided by section 3(c)(7) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)].
(4) The term
Transferee
means a Section 3(c)(1) Transferee or a Qualified Purchaser Transferee, in each case as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(5) The term
Transferor
means a Section 3(c)(1) Transferor or a Qualified Purchaser Transferor, in each case as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Beneficial ownership by any person (“Section 3(c)(1) Transferee”) who acquires securities or interests in securities of a Section 3(c)(1) Company from a person other than the Section 3(c)(1) Company shall be deemed to be beneficial ownership by the person from whom such transfer was made (“Section 3(c)(1) Transferor”), and securities of a Section 3(c)(7) Company that are owned by persons who received the securities from a qualified purchaser other than the Section 3(c)(7) Company (“Qualified Purchaser Transferor”) or a person deemed to be a qualified purchaser by this section shall be deemed to be acquired by a qualified purchaser (“Qualified Purchaser Transferee”), provided that the Transferee is:
(1) The estate of the Transferor;
(2) A Donee; or
(3) A company established by the Transferor exclusively for the benefit of (or owned exclusively by) the Transferor and the persons specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
[62 FR 17529, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 270.3c-7
Inflation-adjusted definition of qualifying venture capital fund.
(a)
Inflation-adjusted definition of qualifying venture capital fund.
For purposes of section 3(c)(1)(C)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)(C)(i)), the term
qualifying venture capital fund
means a venture capital fund (as that term is defined in 17 CFR 275.203(l)-1) that has not more than $12,000,000 in aggregate capital contributions and uncalled committed capital, or, following November 1, 2029, the dollar amount specified in the most recent order issued by the Commission in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and as published in the
Federal Register
.
(b)
Future inflation adjustments.
Pursuant to section 3(c)(1)(C)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)(C)(i)), the dollar amount specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be adjusted by order of the Commission, issued on or about November 1, 2029, and approximately every five years thereafter. The adjusted dollar amount established in such orders shall be computed by:
(1) Dividing the year-end value of the Personal Consumption Expenditures Chain-Type Price Index (or any successor index thereto), as published by the United States Department of Commerce, for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the order is being issued, by the year-end value of such index (or successor) for the calendar year 2018; and
(2) Multiplying $10,000,000 times the quotient obtained in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and rounding the product to the nearest multiple of $1,000,000.
[89 FR 70483, Aug. 30, 2024]
§ 270.5b-1
Definition of “total assets.”
The term
total assets,
when used in computing values for the purposes of sections 5 and 12 of the Act, shall mean the gross assets of the company with respect to which the computation is made, taken as of the end of the fiscal quarter of the company last preceding the date of computation. This section shall not apply to any company which has adopted either of the alternative methods of valuation permitted by § 270.2a-1.
[Rule N-5B-1, 6 FR 5920, Nov. 22, 1941]
§ 270.5b-2
Exclusion of certain guarantees as securities of the guarantor.
(a) For the purposes of section 5 of the act, a guarantee of a security shall not be deemed to be a security issued by the guarantor:
Provided,
That the value of all securities issued or guaranteed by the guarantor, and owned by the management company, does not exceed 10 percent of the value of the total assets of such management company.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, for the purposes of section 5 of the Act, a guarantee by a railroad company of a security issued by a terminal company, warehouse company, switching company, or bridge company, shall not be deemed to be a security issued by such railroad company:
Provided:
(1) The security is guaranteed jointly or severally by more than one railroad company; and
(2) No one of such guaranteeing railroad companies directly or indirectly controls all of its co-guarantors.
(c) For the purposes of section 5 of the Act, a lease or other arrangement whereby a railroad company is or becomes obligated to pay a stipulated annual sum of rental either to another railroad company or to the security holders of such other railroad company shall not be deemed in itself a guarantee.
[Rule N-5B-2, 10 FR 581, Jan. 16, 1945]
§ 270.5b-3
Acquisition of repurchase agreement or refunded security treated as acquisition of underlying securities.
(a)
Repurchase Agreements.
For purposes of sections 5 and 12(d)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5 and 80a-12(d)(3)), the acquisition of a repurchase agreement may be deemed to be an acquisition of the underlying securities, provided the obligation of the seller to repurchase the securities from the investment company is Collateralized Fully.
(b)
Refunded Securities.
For purposes of section 5 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-5), the acquisition of a Refunded Security is deemed to be an acquisition of the escrowed Government Securities.
(c)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Collateralized Fully
in the case of a repurchase agreement means that:
(i) The value of the securities collateralizing the repurchase agreement (reduced by the transaction costs (including loss of interest) that the investment company reasonably could expect to incur if the seller defaults) is, and during the entire term of the repurchase agreement remains, at least equal to the Resale Price provided in the agreement;
(ii) The investment company has perfected its security interest in the collateral;
(iii) The collateral is maintained in an account of the investment company with its custodian or a third party that qualifies as a custodian under the Act;
(iv) The collateral consists entirely of:
(A) Cash items;
(B) Government Securities; or
(C) Securities that the investment company's board of directors, or its delegate, determines at the time the repurchase agreement is entered into:
(
1
) Each issuer of which has an exceptionally strong capacity to meet its financial obligations; and

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(1)(
iv

# )(C)(
1

# ):
For a discussion of the phrase “exceptionally strong capacity to meet its financial obligations” see Investment Company Act Release No. 30847, (December 27, 2013).
(
2
) Are sufficiently liquid that they can be sold at approximately their carrying value in the ordinary course of business within seven calendar days; and
(v) Upon an Event of Insolvency with respect to the seller, the repurchase
agreement would qualify under a provision of applicable insolvency law providing an exclusion from any automatic stay of creditors' rights against the seller.
(2)
Event of Insolvency
means, with respect to a person:
(i) An admission of insolvency, the application by the person for the appointment of a trustee, receiver, rehabilitator, or similar officer for all or substantially all of its assets, a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, the filing by the person of a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or application for reorganization or an arrangement with creditors; or
(ii) The institution of similar proceedings by another person which proceedings are not contested by the person; or
(iii) The institution of similar proceedings by a government agency responsible for regulating the activities of the person, whether or not contested by the person.
(3)
Government Security
means any “Government Security” as defined in section 2(a)(16) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(16)).
(4)
Issuer,
as used in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
1
) of this section, means the issuer of a collateral security or the issuer of an unconditional obligation of a person other than the issuer of the collateral security to undertake to pay, upon presentment by the holder of the obligation (if required), the principal amount of the underlying collateral security plus accrued interest when due or upon default.
(5)
Refunded Security
means a debt security the principal and interest payments of which are to be paid by Government Securities (“deposited securities”) that have been irrevocably placed in an escrow account pursuant to an agreement between the issuer of the debt security and an escrow agent that is not an “affiliated person,” as defined in section 2(a)(3)(C) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(3)(C)), of the issuer of the debt security, and, in accordance with such escrow agreement, are pledged only to the payment of the debt security and, to the extent that excess proceeds are available after all payments of principal, interest, and applicable premiums on the Refunded Securities, the expenses of the escrow agent and, thereafter, to the issuer or another party;
provided
that:
(i) The deposited securities are not redeemable prior to their final maturity;
(ii) The escrow agreement prohibits the substitution of the deposited securities unless the substituted securities are Government Securities; and
(iii) At the time the deposited securities are placed in the escrow account, or at the time a substitution of the deposited securities is made, an independent certified public accountant has certified to the escrow agent that the deposited securities will satisfy all scheduled payments of principal, interest and applicable premiums on the Refunded Securities.
(6)
Resale Price
means the acquisition price paid to the seller of the securities plus the accrued resale premium on such acquisition price. The accrued resale premium is the amount specified in the repurchase agreement or the daily amortization of the difference between the acquisition price and the resale price specified in the repurchase agreement.
[66 FR 36161, July 11, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 52373, Oct. 9, 2009; 79 FR 1329, Jan. 8, 2014]
§ 270.6a-5
Purchase of certain debt securities by companies relying on section 6(a)(5) of the Act.
For purposes of reliance on the exemption for certain companies under section 6(a)(5)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(a)(5)(A)), a company shall be deemed to have met the requirement for credit-worthiness of certain debt securities under section 6(a)(5)(A)(iv)(I) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(a)(5)(A)(iv)(I)) if, at the time of purchase, the board of directors (or its delegate) determines or members of the company (or their delegate) determine that the debt security is:
(a) Subject to no greater than moderate credit risk; and
(b) Sufficiently liquid that it can be sold at or near its carrying value within a reasonably short period of time.
[77 FR 70120, Nov. 23, 2012]
§ 270.6b-1
Exemption of employees' securities company pending determination of application.
Any employees' securities company which files an application for an order of exemption under section 6(b) of the Act (54 Stat. 801; 15 U.S.C. 80a-6) shall be exempt, pending final determination of such application by the Commission, from all provisions of the Act applicable to investment companies as such.
[Rule N-6B-1, 6 FR 6126, Dec. 2, 1941]
§ 270.6c-3
Exemptions for certain registered variable life insurance separate accounts.
A separate account which meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of Rule 6e-2 (17 CFR 270.6e-2) or paragraph (a) of Rule 6e-3(T) (17 CFR 270.6e-3(T)) and registers as an investment company under section 8(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8(a)), and the investment adviser, principal underwriter and depositor of such separate account, shall be exempt from the provisions of the Act specified in paragraph (b) of Rule 6e-2 or paragraph (b) of Rule 6e-3(T), except for sections 7 (15 U.S.C. 80a-7) and 8(a) of the Act, under the same terms and conditions as a separate account claiming exemption under Rule 6e-2 or Rule 6e-3(T).
(Secs. 6(c); 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(C) and 38(a))
[49 FR 49228, Dec. 3, 1984]
§ 270.6c-6
Exemption for certain registered separate accounts and other persons.
(a) As used in this section,
(1)
Revenue Ruling
shall mean Revenue Ruling 81-225, 1981-41 I.R.B. (October 13, 1981), issued by the Internal Revenue Service on September 25, 1981.
(2)
Existing separate account
shall mean a separate account which is, or is a part of, a unit investment trust registered under the Act, engaged in a continuous offering of its securities on September 25, 1981.
(3)
Existing portfolio company
shall mean a registered open-end management investment company, engaged in a continuous offering of its securities on September 25, 1981, all or part of whose securities were owned by an existing separate account on September 25, 1981.
(4)
New portfolio company
shall mean any registered open-end management investment company the shares of which will be sold to one or more registered separate accounts for the purpose of minimizing the impact of the Revenue Ruling on the contractowners of an existing separate account, which new portfolio company has the same:
(i) Investment objectives,
(ii) Fundamental policies, and
(iii) Voting rights as the existing portfolio company and has an advisory fee schedule, including expenses assumed by the adviser, that is at least as advantageous to the new portfolio company as was the fee schedule of the existing portfolio company.
(5)
New separate account
shall mean a separate account which
(i) Is, or is a part of, a unit investment trust registered under the Act;
(ii) Is intended to minimize the impact of the Revenue Ruling on the contractowners of an existing separate account;
(iii) Invests solely in one or more new portfolio companies;
(iv) Has the same
(A) Sales loads,
(B) Depositor, and
(C) Custodial arrangements
As the existing separate account; and
(v) Has
(A) Asset charges,
(B) Administrative fees, and
(C) Any other fees and charges (not including taxes) that correspond only to fees of the existing separate account and are no greater than those corresponding fees.
(b) Any order of the Commission under the Act, granted to an existing separate account on or before September 25, 1981, shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding that the existing separate account invests in one or more new portfolio companies in lieu of, or in addition to, investing in one or more existing portfolio companies;
Provided,
That:
(1) No material changes in the facts upon which the order was based have occurred;
(2) All representations, undertakings, and conditions made or agreed to by the existing separate account, and any other person or persons, other than any
existing portfolio company, in connection with the issuance of the order are, and continue to be, applicable to the existing separate account and any such other person or persons, unless modified in accordance with this section;
(3) All representations, undertakings, and conditions made or agreed to by the existing portfolio company in connection with the issuance of the order are made or agreed to by the new portfolio company, unless modified in accordance with this section; and
(4) Part II of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 of the existing separate account
(i) Indicates that the existing separate account is relying upon paragraph (b) of this section,
(ii) Lists the Investment Company Act release numbers of any orders upon which the existing separate account intends to rely, and
(iii) Contains a representation that the provisions of this paragraph (b) have been complied with.
(c) Any order of the Commission under the Act, granted to an existing separate account on or before September 25, 1981, shall apply with full force and effect to a new separate account and the depositor of and principal underwriter for the new separate account notwithstanding that the new separate account invests in one or more new portfolio companies;
Provided,
That:
(1) No material changes in the facts upon which the order was based have occurred;
(2) All representations, undertakings, and conditions made or agreed to by the depositor, principal underwriter, and any other person or persons other than the existing separate account or any existing portfolio companies, in connection with the issuance of the order are, and continue to be, applicable to such depositor, principal underwriter, and other person or persons, unless modified in accordance with this section;
(3) All representations, undertakings, and conditions made or agreed to by the existing separate account in connection with the issuance of the order are made or agreed to by the new separate account, unless modified in accordance with this section;
(4) All representations, undertakings, and conditions made or agreed to by an existing portfolio company in connection with the issuance of the order are made or agreed to by the new portfolio company, unless modified in accordance with this section; and
(5) Part II of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 of the new separate account
(i) Indicates that the new separate account is relying upon paragraph (c) of this section,
(ii) Lists the Investment Company Act release numbers of any orders upon which the new separate account intends to rely, and
(iii) Contains a representation that the provisions of this paragraph (c) have been complied with.
(d) Any affiliated person or depositor of or principal underwriter for a new or existing separate account or any affiliated person of or principal underwriter for a new or existing portfolio company, and any affiliated person of such persons, principal underwriters, or depositor shall be exempt from section 17(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C 80a-17(d)) and rule 17d-1 thereunder (17 CFR 270.17d-1) to the extent necessary to permit the organization of one or more new portfolio companies;
Provided,
That, any expenses borne by the existing portfolio company or the new portfolio company in connection with such organization are necessary and appropriate and are allocated in a manner that is fair and reasonable to all of the shareholders of these companies.
(e) Any affiliated person or depositor of or principal underwriter for a new or existing separate account and any affiliated persons of such a person, principal underwriter, or depositor shall be exempt from section 17(d) of the Act and Rule 17d-1 thereunder to the extent necessary to permit such person to bear any reasonable expenses arising out of the organization of one or more new portfolio companies or the new separate account.
(f) Any affiliated persons or depositor of or principal underwriter for a new or existing separate account or any affiliated person of or principal underwriter for a new or existing portfolio company, and any affiliated person of such
persons, principal underwriters, or depositor shall be exempt from section 17(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a)), and any existing portfolio company which has made an election pursuant to Rule 18f-1 (17 CFR 270.18f-1) shall be permitted to revoke that election to the extent necessary to permit transactions involving the transfer of assets from the existing portfolio company to a new portfolio company;
Provided,
That:
(1) Such assets are transferred without the imposition of any fees or charges;
(2) The board of directors of the existing portfolio company, including a majority of the directors of the company who are not interested persons of such company, determines that the transfer of assets is fair and reasonable to all shareholders of the company and such determination, and the basis upon which it was made, is recorded in the minute book of the existing portfolio company;
(3) Any securities involved are valued by the existing portfolio company for purposes of the transfer in accordance with its valuation practices for determining net asset value per share; and
(4) With respect to Rule 18f-1, the existing separate account requests that the existing portfolio company redeem in kind the shares of the portfolio company held by the separate account.
(g) The new portfolio company shall be exempt from section 2(a)(41) (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(41)) of the Act and rules 2a-4 (17 CFR 270.2a-4) and 22c-1 (17 CFR 270.22c-1) under the Act to the extent necessary to permit it to use the same method of valuation for the purpose of pricing its shares for sale, redemption, and repurchase, as the existing portfolio company;
Provided,
That:
(1) The existing portfolio company had on September 25, 1981, an order of the Commission exempting it, for the purposes of pricing its shares for sale, redemption, and repurchase, from:
(i) Section 2(a)(41) of the Act and rules 2a-4 and 22c-1 under the Act to the extent necessary to permit it to use the amortized cost valuation method or
(ii) Rules 2a-4 and 22c-1 under the Act to the extent necessary to permit it to calculate its net asset value per share to the nearest one cent on share values of $1.00;
(2) All representations, undertakings, and conditions made or agreed to by the existing portfolio company in connection with the order are made or agreed to by the new portfolio company unless modified in accordance with this section; and
(3) Part II of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 of the new portfolio company
(i) Indicates that the new portfolio company is relying upon paragraph (g) of this section,
(ii) Lists the Investment Company Act release numbers of any orders upon which the new portfolio company intends to rely, and
(iii) Contains a representation that the provisions of paragraph (g) have been complied with.
(h) The depositor or trustee of an existing separate account shall be exempt from section 26(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-26(c)) to the extent necessary to permit the substitution of securities of the new portfolio company for securities of the existing portfolio company;
Provided;
That, within thirty days of such substitution:
(1) The existing separate account notifies all contractowners of the substitution of securities and any determinations of the board of directors of the new portfolio company required by paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) The existing separate account delivers a copy of the prospectus of the new portfolio company to all contractowners; and
(3) The existing separate account, concurrently with the notification referred to in paragraph (h)(1) of this section or the delivery of the prospectus of the new portfolio company referred to in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, whichever is later, offers to those contractowners who would otherwise have surrender rights under their contracts the right, for a period of at least thirty days from the receipt of this offer, to surrender their contracts without the imposition of any withdrawal charge or contingent deferred sales load, and any surrendering contractowner receives the price next
determined after the request for surrender is received by the insurance company.
(i) The existing separate account shall be exempt from section 22(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(d)) to the extent necessary to permit it to comply with paragraph (h) of this section and the principal underwriter for or depositor of the existing separate account shall be exempt from section 26(a)(4)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-26(a)(4)(B)) to the extent necessary to permit them to rely on paragraph (h) of this section.
(j) Notwithstanding section 11 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-11), the existing separate account or any principal underwriter for the existing separate account may make or cause to be made to the contractowners of the existing separate account an offer to exchange a security funded by an existing portfolio company for a security funded by a new portfolio company without the terms of that offer having first been submitted to and approved by the Commission;
Provided,
That the exchange is to be made on the basis of the relative net asset values of the securities to be exchanged without the imposition of any fees or charges.
(k) Notwithstanding section 11 of the Act, the new separate account or any principal underwriter for the new separate account may make or cause to be made an offer to the contractowners of the existing separate account to exchange their securities for securities of the new separate account without the terms of that offer having first been submitted to and approved by the Commission;
Provided,
That:
(1) The exchange is to be made on the basis of the relative net asset values of the securities to be exchanged without the imposition of any fees or charges; and
(2) If the new separate account imposes a contingent deferred sales load (“sales load”) on the securities to be acquired in the exchange
(i) At the time this sales load is imposed, it is calculated as if
(A) The contractowner had been a contractowner of the new separate account from the date on which he became a contractowner of the existing separate account, in the case of a sales load based on the amount of time the contractowner has been invested in the new separate account, and
(B) Amounts attributable to purchase payments made to the existing separate account had been made to the new separate account on the date on which they were made to the existing separate account, in the case of a sales load based on the amount of time purchase payments have been invested in the new separate account, and
(ii) The total sales load imposed does not exceed 9 percent of the sum of the purchase payments made to the new separate account and that portion of purchase payments made to the existing separate account attributable to the securities exchanged.
(l) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this section will be available to a new separate account or new portfolio company, or to any affiliated person or depositor of or principal underwriter for such a new separate account, to any affiliated person of or principal underwriter for such a new portfolio company, to any affiliated person of such persons, depositor, or principal underwriters, or to any substitution of securities effected in reliance on this section, only if such new separate account or new portfolio company is registered under the Act or such substitution is effected prior to September 21, 1983.
[47 FR 42559, Sept. 28, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 43536, June 28, 2002]
§ 270.6c-7
Exemptions from certain provisions of sections 22(e) and 27 for registered separate accounts offering variable annuity contracts to participants in the Texas Optional Retirement Program.
A registered separate account, and any depositor of or underwriter for such account, shall be exempt from the provisions of sections 22(e), 27(i)(2)(A), and 27(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(e), 80a-27(i)(2)(A), and 80a-27(d), respectively) with respect to any variable annuity contract participating in such account to the extent necessary to permit compliance with the Texas Optional Retirement Program (“Program”),
Provided,
That the separate, account, depositor, or underwriter for such account:
(a) Includes appropriate disclosure regarding the restrictions on redemption imposed by the Program in each registration statement, including the prospectus, used in connection with the Program;
(b) Includes appropriate disclosure regarding the restrictions on redemption imposed by the Program in any sales literature used in connection with the offer of annuity contracts to potential Program participants;
(c) Instructs salespeople who solicit Program participants to purchase annuity contracts specifically to bring the restrictions on redemption imposed by the Program to the attention of potential Program participants;
(d) Obtains from each Program participant who purchases an annuity contract in connection with the Program, prior to or at the time of such purchase, a signed statement acknowledging the restrictions on redemption imposed by the Program; and
(e) Includes in Part II of the separate account's registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 a representation that this section is being relied upon and that the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section have been complied with.
[49 FR 1479, Jan. 12, 1984, as amended at 85 FR 26102, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.6c-8
Exemptions for registered separate accounts to impose a deferred sales load and to deduct certain administrative charges.
(a) As used in this section
Deferred sales load
shall mean any sales load, including a contingent deferred sales load, that is deducted upon redemption or annuitization of amounts representing all or a portion of a securityholder's interest in a registered separate account.
(b) A registered separate account, and any depositor of or principal underwriter for such account, shall be exempt from the provisions of sections 22(c) and 27(i)(2)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(c) and 80a-27(i)(2)(A), respectively) and § 270.22c-1 (Rule 22c-1) to the extent necessary to permit them to impose a deferred sales load on any variable annuity contract participating in such account; provided that the terms of any offer to exchange another contract for the contract are in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (d) or (e) of § 270.11a-2 (Rule 11a-2).
(c) A registered separate account, and any depositor of or principal underwriter for such account, shall be exempt from sections 22(c) and 27(i)(2)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(c) and 80a-27(i)(2)(A), respectively) and § 270.22c-1 (Rule 22c-1) to the extent necessary to permit them to deduct from the value of any variable annuity contract participating in such account, upon total redemption of the contract prior to the last day of the year, the full annual fee for administrative services that otherwise would have been deducted on that date.
[48 FR 36098, Aug. 9, 1983, as amended at 85 FR 26102, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.6c-10
Exemption for certain open-end management investment companies to impose deferred sales loads.
(a) A company and any exempted person shall be exempt from the provisions of sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), and 22(d) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(32), 80a-2(a)(35), and 80a-22(d), respectively] and § 270.22c-1 to the extent necessary to permit a deferred sales load to be imposed on shares issued by the company,
Provided,
that:
(1) The amount of the deferred sales load does not exceed a specified percentage of the net asset value or the offering price at the time of purchase;
(2) The terms of the deferred sales load are covered by the provisions of Rule 2830 of the Conduct Rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; and
(3) The same deferred sales load is imposed on all shareholders, except that scheduled variations in or elimination of a deferred sales load may be offered to a particular class of shareholders or transactions,
Provided,
that the conditions in § 270.22d-1 are satisfied. Nothing in this paragraph (a) shall prevent a company from offering to existing shareholders a new scheduled variation that would waive or reduce the amount of a deferred sales load not yet paid.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Company
means a registered open-end management investment company, other than a registered separate account, and includes a separate series of the company;
(2)
Exempted person
means any principal underwriter of, dealer in, and any other person authorized to consummate transactions in, securities issued by a company; and
(3)
Deferred sales load
means any amount properly chargeable to sales or promotional expenses that is paid by a shareholder after purchase but before or upon redemption.
[61 FR 49016, Sept. 17, 1996]
§ 270.6c-11
Exchange-traded funds.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) For purposes of this section:
Authorized participant
means a member or participant of a clearing agency registered with the Commission, which has a written agreement with the exchange-traded fund or one of its service providers that allows the authorized participant to place orders for the purchase and redemption of creation units.
Basket
means the securities, assets or other positions in exchange for which an exchange-traded fund issues (or in return for which it redeems) creation units.
Business day
means any day the exchange-traded fund is open for business, including any day when it satisfies redemption requests as required by section 22(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(e)).
Cash balancing amount
means an amount of cash to account for any difference between the value of the basket and the net asset value of a creation unit.
Creation unit
means a specified number of exchange-traded fund shares that the exchange-traded fund will issue to (or redeem from) an authorized participant in exchange for the deposit (or delivery) of a basket and a cash balancing amount if any.
Custom basket
means:
(A) A basket that is composed of a non-representative selection of the exchange-traded fund's portfolio holdings; or
(B) A representative basket that is different from the initial basket used in transactions on the same business day.
Exchange-traded fund
means a registered open-end management company:
(A) That issues (and redeems) creation units to (and from) authorized participants in exchange for a basket and a cash balancing amount if any; and
(B) Whose shares are listed on a national securities exchange and traded at market-determined prices.
Exchange-traded fund share
means a share of stock issued by an exchange-traded fund.
Foreign investment
means any security, asset or other position of the ETF issued by a foreign issuer as that term is defined in § 240.3b-4 of this title, and that is traded on a trading market outside of the United States.
Market price
means:
(A) The official closing price of an exchange-traded fund share; or
(B) If it more accurately reflects the market value of an exchange-traded fund share at the time as of which the exchange-traded fund calculates current net asset value per share, the price that is the midpoint between the national best bid and national best offer as of that time.
National securities exchange
means an exchange that is registered with the Commission under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f).
Portfolio holdings
means the securities, assets or other positions held by the exchange-traded fund.
Premium or discount
means the positive or negative difference between the market price of an exchange-traded fund share at the time as of which the current net asset value is calculated and the exchange-traded fund's current net asset value per share, expressed as a percentage of the exchange-traded fund share's current net asset value per share.
(2) Notwithstanding the definition of exchange-traded fund in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an exchange-traded fund is not prohibited from selling (or redeeming) individual shares on the day of consummation of a reorganization, merger, conversion or liquidation, and is not limited to transactions with
authorized participants under these circumstances.
(b)
Application of the Act to exchange-traded funds.
If the conditions of paragraph (c) of this section are satisfied:
(1)
Redeemable security.
An exchange-traded fund share is considered a “redeemable security” within the meaning of section 2(a)(32) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(32)).
(2)
Pricing.
A dealer in exchange-traded fund shares is exempt from section 22(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(d)) and § 270.22c-1(a) with regard to purchases, sales and repurchases of exchange-traded fund shares at market-determined prices.
(3)
Affiliated transactions.
A person who is an affiliated person of an exchange-traded fund (or who is an affiliated person of such a person) solely by reason of the circumstances described in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section is exempt from sections 17(a)(1) and 17(a)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a)(1) and (a)(2)) with regard to the deposit and receipt of baskets:
(i) Holding with the power to vote 5% or more of the exchange-traded fund's shares; or
(ii) Holding with the power to vote 5% or more of any investment company that is an affiliated person of the exchange-traded fund.
(4)
Postponement of redemptions.
If an exchange-traded fund includes a foreign investment in its basket, and if a local market holiday, or series of consecutive holidays, or the extended delivery cycles for transferring foreign investments to redeeming authorized participants prevents timely delivery of the foreign investment in response to a redemption request, the exchange-traded fund is exempt, with respect to the delivery of the foreign investment, from the prohibition in section 22(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(e)) against postponing the date of satisfaction upon redemption for more than seven days after the tender of a redeemable security if the exchange-traded fund delivers the foreign investment as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 15 days after the tender of the exchange-traded fund shares.
(c)
Conditions.
(1) Each business day, an exchange-traded fund must disclose prominently on its website, which is publicly available and free of charge:
(i) Before the opening of regular trading on the primary listing exchange of the exchange-traded fund shares, the following information (as applicable) for each portfolio holding that will form the basis of the next calculation of current net asset value per share:
(A) Ticker symbol;
(B) CUSIP or other identifier;
(C) Description of holding;
(D) Quantity of each security or other asset held; and
(E) Percentage weight of the holding in the portfolio;
(ii) The exchange-traded fund's current net asset value per share, market price, and premium or discount, each as of the end of the prior business day;
(iii) A table showing the number of days the exchange-traded fund's shares traded at a premium or discount during the most recently completed calendar year and the most recently completed calendar quarters since that year (or the life of the exchange-traded fund, if shorter);
(iv) A line graph showing exchange-traded fund share premiums or discounts for the most recently completed calendar year and the most recently completed calendar quarters since that year (or the life of the exchange-traded fund, if shorter);
(v) The exchange-traded fund's median bid-ask spread, expressed as a percentage rounded to the nearest hundredth, computed by:
(A) Identifying the exchange-traded fund's national best bid and national best offer as of the end of each 10 second interval during each trading day of the last 30 calendar days;
(B) Dividing the difference between each such bid and offer by the midpoint of the national best bid and national best offer; and
(C) Identifying the median of those values; and
(vi) If the exchange-traded fund's premium or discount is greater than 2% for more than seven consecutive trading days, a statement that the exchange-traded fund's premium or discount, as applicable, was greater than 2% and a discussion of the factors that
are reasonably believed to have materially contributed to the premium or discount, which must be maintained on the website for at least one year thereafter.
(2) The portfolio holdings that form the basis for the exchange-traded fund's next calculation of current net asset value per share must be the ETF's portfolio holdings as of the close of business on the prior business day.
(3) An exchange-traded fund must adopt and implement written policies and procedures that govern the construction of baskets and the process that will be used for the acceptance of baskets;
provided, however,
if the exchange-traded fund utilizes a custom basket, these written policies and procedures also must:
(i) Set forth detailed parameters for the construction and acceptance of custom baskets that are in the best interests of the exchange-traded fund and its shareholders, including the process for any revisions to, or deviations from, those parameters; and
(ii) Specify the titles or roles of the employees of the exchange-traded fund's investment adviser who are required to review each custom basket for compliance with those parameters.
(4) An exchange-traded fund that seeks, directly or indirectly, to provide investment returns that correspond to the performance of a market index by a specified multiple, or to provide investment returns that have an inverse relationship to the performance of a market index, over a predetermined period of time, must comply with all applicable provisions of § 270.18f-4.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
The exchange-traded fund must maintain and preserve for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place:
(1) All written agreements (or copies thereof) between an authorized participant and the exchange-traded fund or one of its service providers that allows the authorized participant to place orders for the purchase or redemption of creation units;
(2) For each basket exchanged with an authorized participant, records setting forth:
(i) The ticker symbol, CUSIP or other identifier, description of holding, quantity of each holding, and percentage weight of each holding composing the basket exchanged for creation units;
(ii) If applicable, identification of the basket as a custom basket and a record stating that the custom basket complies with policies and procedures that the exchange-traded fund adopted pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section;
(iii) Cash balancing amount (if any); and
(iv) Identity of authorized participant transacting with the exchange-traded fund.
[84 FR 57234, Oct. 24, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 83291, Dec. 21, 2020]
§ 270.6d-1
Exemption for certain closed-end investment companies.
(a) An application under section 6(d) of the Act shall contain the following information:
(1) A brief description of the character of the business and investment policy of the applicant.
(2) The information relied upon by the applicant to satisfy the conditions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 6(d) of the Act.
(3) The number of holders of each class of the applicant's outstanding securities.
(4) An unconsolidated balance sheet as of a date not earlier than the end of the applicant's first fiscal year, together with a schedule specifying the title, the amount, the book value and, if determinable, the market value of each security in the applicant's portfolio.
(5) An unconsolidated profit and loss statement for the applicant's last fiscal year.
(6) A statement of each provision of the act from which the applicant seeks exemption, together with a statement of the facts by reason of which, in the applicant's opinion, such exemption is not contrary to the public interest or inconsistent with the protection of investors.
(b) There shall be attached to each copy of the application a copy of Form N-8A. The form need not be executed, but it shall be clearly marked on its facing page as an exhibit to the application. The filing of Form N-8A in this
manner shall not be construed as the filing of a notification of registration under section 8(a) of the Act.
(c) The application may contain any additional information which the applicant desires to submit.
[Rule N-6D-1, 5 FR 4346, Nov. 2, 1940]
§ 270.6e-2
Exemptions for certain variable life insurance separate accounts.
(a) A separate account, and the investment adviser, principal underwriter and depositor of such separate account, shall, except for the exemptions provided in paragraph (b) of this section, be subject to all provisions of the Act and this part as though such separate account were a registered investment company issuing periodic payment plan certificates if:
(1) Such separate account is established and maintained by a life insurance company pursuant to the insurance laws or code of:
(i) Any state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia; or
(ii) Canada or any province thereof, if it complies to the extent necessary with § 270.7d-1 (Rule 7d-1) under the Act;
(2) The assets of the separate account are derived solely from the sale of variable life insurance contracts as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, and advances made by the life insurance company which established and maintains the separate account (“life insurer”) in connection with the operation of such separate account;
(3) The separate account is not used for variable annuity contracts or for funds corresponding to dividend accumulations or other contract liabilities not involving life contingencies;
(4) The income, gains and losses, whether or not realized, from assets allocated to such separate account, are, in accordance with the applicable variable life insurance contract, credited to or charged against such account without regard to other income, gains or losses of the life insurer;
(5) The separate account is legally segregated, and that portion of its assets having a value equal to, or approximately equal to, the reserves and other contract liabilities with respect to such separate account are not chargeable with liabilities arising out of any other business that the life insurer may conduct;
(6) The assets of the separate account have, at each time during the year that adjustments in the reserves are made, a value at least equal to the reserves and other contract liabilities with respect to such separate account, and at all other times, except pursuant to an order of the Commission, have a value approximately equal to or in excess of such reserves and liabilities; and
(7) The investment adviser of the separate account is registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(b) If a separate account meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, then such separate account and the other persons described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be exempt from the provisions of the Act as follows:
(1) Section 7 (15 U.S.C. 80a-7).
(2) Section 8 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8) to the extent that:
(i) For purposes of paragraph (a) of section 8, the separate account shall file with the Commission a notification on § 274.301 of this chapter (Form N-6EI-1) which identifies such separate account; and
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (b) of section 8, the separate account shall file with the Commission a form to be designated by the Commission within 90 days after filing the notification on Form N-6EI-1; provided, however, that if the fiscal year of the separate account ends within this 90 day period the form may be filed within ninety days after the end of such fiscal year.
(3) Section 9 (15 U.S.C. 80a-9) to the extent that:
(i) The eligibility restrictions of section 9(a) shall not be applicable to those persons who are officers, directors and employees of the life insurer or its affiliates who do not participate directly in the management or administration of the separate account or in the sale of variable life insurance contracts funded by such separate account; and
(ii) A life insurer shall be ineligible pursuant to paragraph (3) of section 9(a) to serve as investment adviser, depositor of or principal underwriter for
a variable life insurance separate account only if an affiliated person of such life insurer, ineligible by reason of paragraph (1) or (2) of section 9(a), participates directly in the management or administration of the separate account or in the sale of variable life insurance contracts funded by such separate account.
(4) Section 13(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-13(a)) to the extent that:
(i) An insurance regulatory authority may require pursuant to insurance law or regulation that the separate account make (or refrain from making) certain investments which would result in changes in the subclassification or investment policies of the separate account;
(ii) Changes in the investment policy of the separate account initiated by contractholders or the board of directors of the separate account may be disapproved by the life insurer, provided that such disapproval is reasonable and is based upon a determination by the life insurer in good faith that:
(A) Such change would be contrary to state law; or
(B) Such change would be inconsistent with the investment objectives of the separate account or would result in the purchase of securities for the separate account which vary from the general quality and nature of investments and investment techniques utilized by other separate accounts of the life insurer or of an affiliated life insurance company, which separate accounts have investment objectives similar to the separate account; and
(iii) Any action taken in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section and the reasons therefor shall be disclosed in the proxy statement for the next meeting of variable life insurance contractholders of the separate account.
(5) Section 14(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-14(a)).
(6)(i) Section 15(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(a)) to the extent this section requires that the initial written contract pursuant to which the investment adviser serves or acts shall have been approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of the registered company; provided that:
(A) Such investment adviser is selected and a written contract is entered into before the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for variable life insurance contracts which are funded by the separate account, and that the terms of the contract are fully disclosed in such registration statement; and
(B) A written contract is submitted to a vote of variable life insurance contractholders at their first meeting after the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on condition that such meeting shall take place within one year after such effective date, unless the time for the holding of such meeting shall be extended by the Commission upon written request for good cause shown; and
(ii) Sections 15(a), (b) and (c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(a), (b), and (c)) to the extent that:
(A) An insurance regulatory authority may disapprove pursuant to insurance law or regulation any contract between the separate account and an investment adviser or principal underwriter;
(B) Changes in the principal underwriter for the separate account initiated by contractholders or the board of directors of the separate account may be disapproved by the life insurer; provided that such disapproval is reasonable;
(C) Changes in the investment adviser of the separate account initiated by contractholders or the board of directors of the separate account may be disapproved by the life insurer; provided that such disapproval is reasonable and is based upon a determination by the life insurer in good faith that:
(
1
) The rate of the proposed investment advisory fee will exceed the maximum rate that is permitted to be charged against the assets of the separate account for such services as specified by any variable life insurance contract funded by such separate account; or
(
2
) The proposed investment adviser may be expected to employ investment techniques which vary from the general techniques utilized by the current investment adviser to the separate account, or advise the purchase or sale of securities which would be inconsistent
with the investment objectives of the separate account, or which would vary from the quality and nature of investments made by other separate accounts of the life insurer or of an affiliated life insurance company, which separate accounts have investment objectives similar to the separate account; and
(D) Any action taken in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section and the reasons therefor shall be disclosed in the proxy statement for the next meeting of variable life insurance contractholders of the separate account.
(7) Section 16(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-16(a)) to the extent that:
(i) Persons serving as directors of the separate account prior to the first meeting of such account's variable life insurance contractholders are exempt from the requirement of section 16(a) that such persons be elected by the holders of outstanding voting securities of such account at an annual or special meeting called for that purpose; provided that:
(A) Such persons have been appointed directors of such account by the life insurer before the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for variable life insurance contracts which are funded by the separate account and are identified in such registration statement (or are replacements appointed by the life insurer for any such persons who have become unable to serve as directors); and
(B) An election of directors for such account shall be held at the first meeting of variable life insurance contractholders after the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, relating to contracts funded by such account, which meeting shall take place within one year after such effective date, unless the time for holding such meeting shall be extended by the Commission upon written request for good cause shown; and
(ii) A member of the board of directors of such separate account may be disapproved or removed by the appropriate insurance regulatory authority if such person is ineligible to serve as a director of the separate account pursuant to insurance law or regulation of the jurisdiction in which the life insurer is domiciled.
(8) Section 17(f) (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(f)) to the extent that the securities and similar investments of the separate account may be maintained in the custody of the life insurer or an insurance company which is an affiliated person of such life insurer; provided that:
(i) The securities and similar investments allocated to such separate account are clearly identified as to ownership by such account, and such securities and similar investments are maintained in the vault of an insurance company which meets the qualifications set forth in paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, and whose procedures and activities with respect to such safekeeping function are supervised by the insurance regulatory authorities of the jurisdiction in which the securities and similar investments will be held;
(ii) The insurance company maintaining such investments must file with an insurance regulatory authority of a State or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia an annual statement of its financial condition in the form prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, must be subject to supervision and inspection by such authority and must be examined periodically as to its financial condition and other affairs by such authority, must hold the securities and similar investments of the separate account in its vault, which vault must be equivalent to that of a bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System, and must have a combined capital and surplus, if a stock company, or an unassigned surplus, if a mutual company, of not less than $1,000,000 as set forth in its most recent annual statement filed with such authority;
(iii) Access to such securities and similar investments shall be limited to employees of or agents authorized by the Commission, representatives of insurance regulatory authorities, independent public accountants for the separate account, accountants for the life insurer and to no more than 20 persons authorized pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors of the separate
account, which persons shall be directors of the separate account, officers and responsible employees of the life insurer or officers and responsible employees of the affiliated insurance company in whose vault such investments are maintained (if applicable), and access to such securities and similar investments shall be had only by two or more such persons jointly, at least one of whom shall be a director of the separate account or officer of the life insurer;
(iv) The requirement in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section that the securities and similar investments of the separate account be maintained in the vault of a qualified insurance company shall not apply to securities deposited with insurance regulatory authorities or deposited in a system for the central handling of securities established by a national securities exchange or national securities association registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such person as may be permitted by the Commission, or to securities on loan which are collateralized to the extent of their full market value, or to securities hypothecated, pledged, or placed in escrow for the account of such separate account in connection with a loan or other transaction authorized by specific resolution of the board of directors of the separate account, or to securities in transit in connection with the sale, exchange, redemption, maturity or conversion, the exercise of warrants or rights, assents to changes in terms of the securities, or to other transactions necessary or appropriate in the ordinary course of business relating to the management of securities;
(v) Each person when depositing such securities or similar investments in or withdrawing them from the depository or when ordering their withdrawal and delivery from the custody of the life insurer or affiliated insurance company, shall sign a notation in respect of such deposit, withdrawal or order which shall show:
(A) The date and time of the deposit, withdrawal, or order;
(B) The title and amount of the securities or other investments deposited, withdrawn or ordered to be withdrawn, and an identification thereof by certificate numbers or otherwise;
(C) The manner of acquisition of the securities or similar investments deposited or the purpose for which they have been withdrawn, or ordered to be withdrawn; and
(D) If withdrawn and delivered to another person the name of such person. Such notation shall be transmitted promptly to an officer or director of the separate account or the life insurer designated by the board of directors of the separate account who shall not be a person designated for the purpose of paragraph (b)(8)(iii) of this section. Such notation shall be on serially numbered forms and shall be preserved for at least one year;
(vi) Such securities and similar investments shall be verified by complete examination by an independent public accountant retained by the separate account at least three times during each fiscal year, at least two of which shall be chosen by such accountant without prior notice to such separate account. A certificate of such accountant stating that he has made an examination of such securities and investments and describing the nature and extent of the examination shall be transmitted to the Commission by the accountant promptly after each examination; and
(vii) Securities and similar investments of a separate account maintained with a bank or other company whose functions and physical facilities are supervised by Federal or state authorities pursuant to any arrangement whereby the directors, officers, employees or agents of the separate account or the life insurer are authorized or permitted to withdraw such investments upon their mere receipt are deemed to be in the custody of the life insurer and shall be exempt from the requirements of section 17(f) so long as the arrangement complies with all provisions of paragraph (b)(8) of this section, except that such securities will be maintained in the vault of a bank or other company rather than the vault of an insurance company.
(9) Section 18(i) (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(i)) to the extent that:
(i) For the purposes of any section of the Act which provides for the vote of
securityholders on matters relating to the investment company:
(A) Variable life insurance contractholders shall have one vote for each $100 of cash value funded by the separate account, with fractional votes allocated for amounts less than $100;
(B) The life insurer shall have one vote for each $100 of assets of the separate account not otherwise attributable to contractholders pursuant to paragraph (b)(9)(i)(A) of this section, with fractional votes allocated for amounts less than $100; provided that after the commencement of sales of variable life insurance contracts funded by the separate account, the life insurer shall cast its votes for and against each matter which may be voted upon by contractholders in the same proportion as the votes cast by contractholders; and
(C) The number of votes to be allocated shall be determined as of a record date not more than 90 days prior to any meeting at which such vote is held; provided that if a quorum is not present at the meeting, the meeting may be adjourned for up to 60 days without fixing a new record date; and
(ii) The requirement of this section that every share of stock issued by a registered management investment company (except a common-law trust of the character described in section 16(c)) shall be a voting stock and have equal voting rights with every other outstanding voting stock shall not be deemed to be violated by actions specifically permitted by any provision of this section.
(10) Section 19 (15 U.S.C. 80a-19) to the extent that the provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any dividend or similar distribution paid or payable pursuant to provisions of participating variable life insurance contracts.
(11) Sections 22(d), 22(e), and 27(i)(2)(A) (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(d), 80a-22(e), and 80a-27(i)(2)(A), respectively) and § 270.22c-1 (Rule 22c-1) promulgated under section 22(c) to the extent:
(i) That the amount payable on death and the cash surrender value of each variable life insurance contract shall be determined on each day during which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading, not less frequently than once daily as of the time of the close of trading on such exchange; provided that the amount payable on death need not be determined more than once each contract month if such determination does not reduce the participation of the contract in the investment experience of the separate account; provided further, however, that if the net valuation premium for such contract is transferred at least annually, then the amount payable on death need be determined only when such net premium is transferred; and
(ii) Necessary for compliance with this section or with insurance laws and regulations and established administrative procedures of the life insurer with respect to issuance, transfer and redemption procedures for variable life insurance contracts funded by the separate account including, but not limited to, premium rate structure and premium processing, insurance underwriting standards, and the particular benefit afforded by the contract; provided, however, that any procedure or action shall be reasonable, fair and not discriminatory to the interests of the affected contractholder and to all other holders of contracts of the same class or series funded by the separate account; and, further provided that any such action shall be disclosed in the form required to be filed by the separate account with the Commission pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(12) Section 27(i)(2)(A) (15 U.S.C. 80a-27(i)(A)), to the extent that such sections require that the variable life insurance contract be redeemable or provide for a refund in cash; provided that such contract provides for election by the contractholder of a cash surrender value or certain non-forfeiture and settlement options which are required or permitted by the insurance law or regulation of the jurisdiction in which the contract is offered; and further provided that unless required by the insurance law or regulation of the jurisdiction in which the contract is offered or unless elected by the contractholder, such contract shall not provide for the
automatic imposition of any option, including, but not limited to, an automatic premium loan, which would involve the accrual or payment of an interest or similar charge;
(13) Section 32(a)(2) (15 U.S.C. 80a-31(a)(2)); provided that:
(i) The independent public accountant is selected before the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for variable life insurance contracts which are funded by the separate account, and the identity of such accountant is disclosed in such registration statement; and
(ii) The selection of such accountant is submitted for ratification or rejection to variable life insurance contractholders at their first meeting after the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on condition that such meeting shall take place within one year after such effective date, unless the time for the holding of such meeting shall be extended by the Commission upon written request for good cause shown.
(14) If the separate account is organized as a unit investment trust, all the assets of which consist of the shares of one or more registered management investment companies which offer their shares exclusively to variable life insurance separate accounts of the life insurer or of any affiliated life insurance company:
(i) The eligibility restrictions of section 9(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-9(a)) shall not be applicable to those persons who are officers, directors, and employees of the life insurer or its affiliates who do not participate directly in the management or administration of any registered management investment company described in paragraph (b)(14) introductory text;
(ii) The life insurer shall be ineligible pursuant to paragraph (3) of section 9(a) to serve as investment adviser of or principal underwriter for any registered management investment company described in paragraph (b)(14) of this section only if an affiliated person of such life insurer, ineligible by reason of paragraph (1) or (2) of section 9(a), participates in the management or administration of such company;
(iii) The life insurer may vote shares of the registered management investment companies held by the separate account without regard to instructions from contractholders of the separate account if such instructions would require such shares to be voted:
(A) To cause such companies to make (or refrain from making) certain investments which would result in changes in the sub-classification or investment objectives of such companies or to approve or disapprove any contract between such companies and an investment adviser when required to do so by an insurance regulatory authority subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (b)(6)(ii)(A) of this section; or
(B) In favor of changes in investment objectives, investment adviser of or principal underwriter for such companies subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(4)(ii) and (b)(6)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section;
(iv) Any action taken in accordance with paragraph (b)(14)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section and the reasons therefor shall be disclosed in the next report to contractholders made pursuant to section 30(e) (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(e)) and § 270.30e-2 (Rule 30e-2);
(v) Any registered management investment company established by the insurer and described in paragraph (b)(14) of this section shall be exempt from section 14(a); and
(vi) Any registered management investment company established by the insurer and described in paragraph (b)(14) of this section shall be exempt from sections 15(a), 16(a), and 32(a)(2) (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(a), 80-16(a), and 80-31(a)(2), respectively), to the extent prescribed by paragraphs (b)(6)(i), (b)(7)(i), and (b)(13) of this section, provided that such company complies with the conditions set forth in those paragraphs as if it were a separate account.
(c) When used in this section,
variable life insurance contract
means a contract of life insurance, subject to regulation under the insurance laws or code of every jurisdiction in which it is offered, funded by a separate account of a life insurer, which contract, so long as premium payments are duly paid in accordance with its terms, provides for:
(1) A death benefit and cash surrender value which vary to reflect the investment experience of the separate account;
(2) An initial stated dollar amount of death benefit, and payment of a death benefit guaranteed by the life insurer to be at least equal to such stated amount; and
(3) Assumption of the mortality and expense risks thereunder by the life insurer for which a charge against the assets of the separate account may be assessed. Such charge shall be disclosed in the prospectus and shall not be less than fifty per centum of the maximum charge for risk assumption as disclosed in the prospectus and as provided for in the contract.
[85 FR 26102, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.6e-3
Exemptions for flexible premium variable life insurance separate accounts.
(a) A separate account, and its investment adviser, principal underwriter and depositor, shall, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, comply with all provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) and this part that apply to a registered investment company issuing periodic payment plan certificates if:
(1) It is a separate account within the meaning of section 2(a)(37) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)) and is established and maintained by a life insurance company pursuant to the insurance laws or code of:
(i) Any state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia; or
(ii) Canada or any province thereof, if it complies with § 270.7d-1 (Rule 7d-1) under the Act (the “life insurer”);
(2) The assets of the separate account are derived solely from:
(i) The sale of flexible premium variable life insurance contracts (“flexible contracts”) as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;
(ii) The sale of scheduled premium variable life insurance contracts (“scheduled contracts”) as defined in paragraph (c) of § 270.6e-2 (Rule 6e-2) under the Act;
(iii) Funds corresponding to dividend accumulations with respect to such contracts; and
(iv) Advances made by the life insurer in connection with the operation of such separate account;
(3) The separate account is not used for variable annuity contracts or other contract liabilities not involving life contingencies;
(4) The separate account is legally segregated, and that part of its assets with a value approximately equal to the reserves and other contract liabilities for such separate account are not chargeable with liabilities arising from any other business of the life insurer;
(5) The value of the assets of the separate account, each time adjustments in the reserves are made, is at least equal to the reserves and other contract liabilities of the separate account, and at all other times approximately equals or exceeds the reserves and liabilities; and
(6) The investment adviser of the separate account is registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
).
(b) A separate account that meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, and its investment adviser, principal underwriter and depositor shall be exempt with respect to flexible contracts funded by the separate account from the following provisions of the Act:
(1) Subject to section 26(f) of the Act, in connection with any sales charge deducted under the flexible contract, the separate account and other persons shall be exempt from sections 12(b), 22(c), and 27(i)(2)(A) (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(b), 80-22(c), and 80a-27(i)(2)(A), respectively) of the Act, and §§ 270.12b-1 (Rule 12b-1) and 270.22c-1 (Rule 22c-1) under the Act.
(2) Section 7 (15 U.S.C. 80a-7).
(3) Section 8 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), to the extent that:
(i) For purposes of paragraph (a) of section 8, the separate account filed with the Commission a notification on § 274.301 of this chapter (Form N-6EI-1) which identifies the separate account; and
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (b) of section 8, the separate account shall
file with the Commission the form designated by the Commission within ninety days after filing the notification on Form N-6EI-1; provided, however, that if the fiscal year of the separate account end within this ninety day period, the form may be filed within ninety days after the end of such fiscal year.
(4) Section 9 (15 U.S.C. 80a-9), to the extent that:
(i) The eligibility restrictions of section 9(a) shall not apply to persons who are officers, directors or employees of the life insurer or its affiliates and who do not participate directly in the management or administration of the separate account or in the sale of flexible contracts; and
(ii) A life insurer shall be ineligible under paragraph (3) of section 9(a) to serve as investment adviser, depositor of or principal underwriter for the separate account only if an affiliated person of such life insurer, ineligible by reason of paragraphs (1) or (2) of section 9(a), participates directly in the management or administration of the separate account or in the sale of flexible contracts.
(5) Section 13(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-13(a)), to the extent that:
(i) An insurance regulatory authority may require pursuant to insurance law or regulation that the separate account make (or refrain from making) certain investments which would result in changes in the subclassification or investment policies of the separate account;
(ii) Changes in the investment policy of the separate account initiated by its contractholders or board of directors may be disapproved by the life insurer, if the disapproval is reasonable and is based on a good faith determination by the life insurer that:
(A) The change would violate state law; or
(B) The change would not be consistent with the investment objectives of the separate account or would result in the purchase of securities for the separate account which vary from the general quality and nature of investments and investment techniques used by other separate accounts of the life insurer or of an affiliated life insurance company with similar investment objectives; and
(iii) Any action described in paragraph (b)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section and the reasons for it shall be disclosed in the next communication to contractholders, but in no case, later than twelve months from the date of such action.
(6) Section 14(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-14(a)).
(7)(i) Section 15(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(a)), to the extent it requires that the initial written contract with the investment adviser shall have been approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of the registered investment company; provided that:
(A) The investment adviser is selected and a written contract is entered into before the effective date of the 1933 Act registration statement for flexible contracts, and that the terms of the contract are fully disclosed in the registration statement; and
(B) A written contract is submitted to a vote of contractholders at their first meeting and within one year after the effective date of the 1933 Act registration statement, unless the Commission upon written request and for good cause shown extends the time for the holding of such meeting; and
(ii) Sections 15(a), (b), and (c), to the extent that:
(A) An insurance regulatory authority may disapprove pursuant to insurance law or regulation any contract between the separate account and an investment adviser or principal underwriter;
(B) Changes in the principal underwriter for the separate account initiated by contractholders or the board of directors of the separate account may be disapproved by the life insurer; provided that such disapproval is reasonable;
(C) Changes in the investment adviser of the separate account initiated by contractholders or the board of directors of the separate account may be disapproved by the life insurer; provided that such disapproval is reasonable and is based on a good faith determination by the life insurer that:
(
1
) The proposed investment advisory fee will exceed the maximum rate specified in any flexible contract that may
be charged against the assets of the separate account for such services; or
(
2
) The proposed investment adviser may be expected to employ investment techniques which vary from the general techniques used by the current investment adviser to the separate account, or advise the purchase or sale of securities which would not be consistent with the investment objectives of the separate account, or which would vary from the quality and nature of investments made by other separate accounts with similar investment objectives of the life insurer or an affiliated life insurance company; and
(D) Any action described in paragraph (b)(7)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section and the reasons for it shall be disclosed in the next communication to contractholders, but in no case, later than twelve months from the date of such action.
(8) Section 16(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-16(a)), to the extent that:
(i) Directors of the separate account serving before the first meeting of the account's contractholders are exempt from the requirement of section 16(a) that they be elected by the holders of outstanding voting securities of the account at an annual or special meeting called for that purpose; provided that:
(A) Such persons were appointed directors of the account by the life insurer before the effective date of the 1933 Act registration statement for flexible contracts and are identified in the registration statement (or are replacements appointed by the life insurer for any such persons who have become unable to serve as directors); and
(B) An election of directors for the account is held at the first meeting of contractholders and within one year after the effective date of the 1933 Act registration statement for flexible contracts, unless the time for holding the meeting is extended by the Commission upon written request and for good cause shown; and
(ii) A member of the board of directors of the separate account may be disapproved or removed by an insurance regulatory authority if the person is not eligible to be a director of the separate account under the law of the life insurer's domicile.
(9) Section 17(f) (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(f)), to the extent that the securities and similar investments of a separate account organized as a management investment company may be maintained in the custody of the life insurer or of an affiliated life insurance company; provided that:
(i) The securities and similar investments allocated to the separate account are clearly identified as owned by the account, and the securities and similar investments are kept in the vault of an insurance company which meets the qualifications in paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section, and whose safekeeping function is supervised by the insurance regulatory authorities of the jurisdiction in which the securities and similar investments will be held;
(ii) The insurance company maintaining such investments must file with an insurance regulatory authority of a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia an annual statement of its financial condition in the form prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, must be subject to supervision and inspection by such authority and must be examined periodically as to its financial condition and other affairs by such authority, must hold the securities and similar investments of the separate account in its vault, which vault must be equivalent to that of a bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System, and must have a combined capital and surplus, if a stock company, or an unassigned surplus, if a mutual company, of not less than $1,000,000 as set forth in its most recent annual statement filed with such authority;
(iii) Access to such securities and similar investments shall be limited to employees of the Commission, representatives of insurance regulatory authorities, independent public accountants retained by the separate account (or on its behalf by the life insurer), accountants for the life insurer, and to no more than 20 persons authorized by a resolution of the board of directors of the separate account, which persons shall be directors of the separate account, officers and responsible employees of the life insurer or officers
and responsible employees of the affiliated life insurance company in whose vault the investments are kept (if applicable), and access to such securities and similar investments shall be had only by two or more such persons jointly, at least one of whom shall be a director of the separate account or officer of the life insurer;
(iv) The requirement in paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section that the securities and similar investments of the separate account be maintained in the vault of a qualified insurance company shall not apply to securities deposited with insurance regulatory authorities or deposited in accordance with any rule under section 17(f), or to securities on loan which are collateralized to the extent of their full market value, or to securities hypothecated, pledged, or placed in escrow for the account of such separate account in connection with a loan or other transaction authorized by specific resolution of the board of directors of the separate account, or to securities in transit in connection with the sale, exchange, redemption, maturity or conversion, the exercise of warrants or rights, assents to changes in terms of the securities, or to other transactions necessary or appropriate in the ordinary course of business relating to the management of securities;
(v) Each person when depositing such securities or similar investments in or withdrawing them from the depository or when ordering their withdrawal and delivery from the custody of the life insurer or affiliated life insurance company, shall sign a notation showing:
(A) The date and time of the deposit, withdrawal or order;
(B) The title and amount of the securities or other investments deposited, withdrawn or ordered to be withdrawn, and an identification thereof by certificate numbers or otherwise;
(C) The manner of acquisition of the securities or similar investments deposited or the purpose for which they have been withdrawn, or ordered to be withdrawn; and
(D) If withdrawn and delivered to another person, the name of such person. The notation shall be sent promptly to an officer or director of the separate account or the life insurer designated by the board of directors of the separate account who is not himself permitted to have access to the securities or investments under paragraph (b)(9)(iii) of this section. The notation shall be on serially numbered forms and shall be kept for at least one year;
(vi) The securities and similar investments shall be verified by complete examination by an independent public accountant retained by the separate account (or on its behalf by the life insurer) at least three times each fiscal year, at least two of which shall be chosen by the accountant without prior notice to the separate account. A certificate of the accountant stating that he has made an examination of such securities and investments and describing the nature and extent of the examination shall be sent to the Commission by the accountant promptly after each examination; and
(vii) Securities and similar investments of a separate account maintained with a bank or other company whose functions and physical facilities are supervised by Federal or state authorities under any arrangement whereby the directors, officers, employees or agents of the separate account or the life insurer are authorized or permitted to withdraw such investments upon their mere receipt are deemed to be in the custody of the life insurer and shall be exempt from the requirements of section 17(f) so long as the arrangement complies with all provisions of paragraph (b)(9) of this section, except that such securities will be maintained in the vault of a bank or other company rather than the vault of an insurance company.
(10) Section 18(i) (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(i)), to the extent that:
(i) For the purposes of any section of the Act which provides for the vote of securityholders on matters relating to the investment company:
(A) Flexible contractholders shall have one vote for each $100 of cash value funded by the separate account, with fractional votes allocated for amounts less than $100;
(B) The life insurer shall have one vote for each $100 of assets of the separate account not otherwise attributable to contractholders under paragraph (b)(10)(i)(A) of this section, with
fractional votes allocated for amounts less than $100; provided that after the commencement of sales of flexible contracts, the life insurer shall cast its votes for and against each matter which may be voted upon by contractholders in the same proportion as the votes cast by contractholders; and
(C) The number of votes to be allocated shall be determined as of a record date not more than 90 days before any meeting at which such vote is held; provided that if a quorum is not present at the meeting, the meeting may be adjourned for up to 60 days without fixing a new record date; and
(ii) The requirement of section 18(i) that every share of stock issued by a registered management investment company (except a common-law trust of the character described in section 16(c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-16(c))) shall be a voting stock and have equal voting rights with every other outstanding voting stock shall not be deemed to be violated by actions specifically permitted by any provisions of this section.
(11) Section 19 (15 U.S.C. 80a-19), to the extent that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any dividend or similar distribution paid or payable under provisions of participating flexible contracts.
(12) Sections 22(c), 22(d), 22(e) and 27(i)(2)(A) (15 U.S.C. 80a-22(c)), 80a-22(d), 80a-22(e), and 80a-27(i)(2)(A), respectively) and § 270.22c-1 (Rule 22c-1) to the extent:
(i) The cash value of each flexible contract shall be computed in accordance with Rule 22c-1(b); provided, however, that where actual computation is not necessary for the operation of a particular contract, then the cash value of that contract must only be capable of computation; and provided further that to the extent the calculation of the cash value reflects deductions for the cost of insurance and other insurance benefits or administrative expenses and fees or sales charges, such deductions need only be made at such times as specified in the contract or as necessary for compliance with insurance laws and regulations;
(ii) The death benefit, unless required by insurance laws and regulations, shall be computed on any day that the investment experience of the separate account would affect the death benefit under the terms of the contract provided that such terms are reasonable, fair, and nondiscriminatory; and
(iii) Necessary to comply with this section or with insurance laws and regulations and established administrative procedures of the life insurer for issuance, increases in or additions of insurance benefits, transfer and redemption of flexible contracts, including, but not limited to, premium rate structure and premium processing, insurance underwriting standards, and the particular benefit afforded by the contract; provided, however, that any procedure or action shall be reasonable, fair, and not discriminatory to the interests of the affected contractholders and to all other holders of contracts of the same class or series funded by the separate account; and provided further that any such action shall be disclosed in the form filed by the separate account with the Commission under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(13) Sections 27(i)(2)(A) and 22(c) (15 U.S.C. 80a-27(i)(2)(A) and 80a-22(c)) and § 270.22c-1 (Rule 22c-1), to the extent that:
(i) Such sections require that the flexible contract be redeemable or provide for a refund in cash; provided that the contract provides for election by the contractholder of a cash surrender value or certain non-forfeiture and settlement options which are required or permitted by the insurance law or regulation of the jurisdiction in which the contract is offered; and provided further that unless required by the insurance law or regulation of the jurisdiction in which the contract is offered or unless elected by the contractholder, the contract shall not provide for the automatic imposition of any option, including, but not limited to, an automatic premium loan, which would involve the accrual or payment of an interest or similar charge.
(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b)(13)(i) of this section, if the amounts available under the contract to pay the charges due under the contract on any contract processing day are less than such charges due, the contract may provide that the cash
surrender value shall be applied to purchase a non-forfeiture option specified by the life insurer in such contract; provided that the contract also provides that Contract processing days occur not less frequently than monthly.
(iii) Subject to section 26(f) (15 U.S.C. 80a-26(f)), sales charges and administrative expenses or fees may be deducted upon redemption.
(14) Section 32(a)(2) (15 U.S.C. 80a-31(a)(2)); provided that:
(i) The independent public accountant is selected before the effective date of the 1933 Act registration statement for flexible contracts, and the identity of the accountant is disclosed in the registration statement; and
(ii) The selection of the accountant is submitted for ratification or rejection to flexible contractholders at their first meeting and within one year after the effective date of the 1933 Act registration statement for flexible contracts, unless the time for holding the meeting is extended by order of the Commission.
(15) If the separate account is organized as a unit investment trust, all the assets of which consist of the shares of one or more registered management investment companies which offer their shares exclusively to separate accounts of the life insurer, or of any affiliated life insurance company, offering either scheduled contracts or flexible contracts, or both; or which also offer their shares to variable annuity separate accounts of the life insurer or of an affiliated life insurance company, or which offer their shares to any such life insurance company in consideration solely for advances made by the life insurer in connection with the operation of the separate account; provided that the board of directors of each investment company, constituted with a majority of disinterested directors, will monitor such company for the existence of any material irreconcilable conflict between the interests of variable annuity contractholders and scheduled or flexible contractholders investing in such company; the life insurer agrees that it will be responsible for reporting any potential or existing conflicts to the directors; and if a conflict arises, the life insurer will, at its own cost, remedy such conflict up to and including establishing a new registered management investment company and segregating the assets underlying the variable annuity contracts and the scheduled or flexible contracts; then:
(i) The eligibility restrictions of section 9(a) shall not apply to those persons who are officers, directors or employees of the life insurer or its affiliates who do not participate directly in the management or administration of any registered management investment company described in paragraph (b)(15) of this section;
(ii) The life insurer shall be ineligible under paragraph (3) of section 9(a) to serve as investment adviser of or principal underwriter for any registered management investment company described in paragraph (b)(15) of this section only if an affiliated person of such life insurer, ineligible by reason of paragraphs (1) or (2) of section 9(a), participates in the management or administration of such company;
(iii) For purposes of any section of the Act which provides for the vote of securityholders on matters relating to the separate account or the underlying registered investment company, the voting provisions of paragraphs (b)(10)(i) and (ii) of this section apply; provided that:
(A) The life insurer may vote shares of the registered management investment companies held by the separate account without regard to instructions from contractholders of the separate account if such instructions would require such shares to be voted:
(
1
) To cause such companies to make (or refrain from making) certain investments which would result in changes in the sub-classification or investment objectives of such companies or to approve or disapprove any contract between such companies and an investment adviser when required to do so by an insurance regulatory authority subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (b)(7)(ii)(A) of this section; or
(
2
) In favor of changes in investment objectives, investment adviser of or
principal underwriter for such companies subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(5)(ii) and (b)(7)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section;
(B) Any action taken in accordance with paragraph (b)(15)(iii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section and the reasons therefor shall be disclosed in the next report contractholders made under section 30(e) (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(e)) and § 270.30e-2 (Rule 30e-2);
(iv) Any registered management investment company established by the life insurer and described in paragraph (b)(15) of this section shall be exempt from section 14(a); and
(v) Any registered management investment company established by the life insurer and described in paragraph (b)(14) of this section shall be exempt from sections 15(a), 16(a), and 32(a)(2) (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(a), 80-16(a), and 80-31(a)(2), respectively), to the extent prescribed by paragraphs (b)(7)(i), (b)(8)(i), and (b)(14) of this section; provided that the company complies with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (b)(7)(i), (b)(8)(i), and (b)(14) of this section as if it were a separate account.
(c) When used in this section:
(1)
Flexible premium variable life insurance contract
means a contract of life insurance, subject to regulation under the insurance laws or code of every jurisdiction in which it is offered, funded by a separate account of a life insurer, which contract provides for:
(i) Premium payments which are not fixed by the life insurer as to both timing and amount; provided, however, that the life insurer may fix the timing and minimum amount of premium payments for the first two contract periods following issuance of the contract or of an increase in or addition of insurance benefits, and may prescribe a reasonable minimum amount for any additional premium payment;
(ii) A death benefit the amount or duration of which may vary to reflect the investment experience of the separate account;
(iii) A cash value which varies to reflect the investment experience of the separate account; and
(iv) There is a reasonable expectation that subsequent premium payments will be made.
(2)
Contract period
means the period from a contract issue or anniversary date to the earlier of the next following anniversary date (or, if later, the last day of any grace period commencing before such next following anniversary date) or the termination date of the contract.
(3)
Cash value
means the amount that would be available in cash upon voluntary termination of a contract by its owner before it becomes payable by death or maturity, without regard to any charges that may be assessed upon such termination and before deduction of any outstanding contract loan.
(4)
Cash surrender value
means the amount available in cash upon voluntary termination of a contract by its owner before it becomes payable by death or maturity, after any charges assessed in connection with the termination have been deducted and before deduction of any outstanding contract loan.
(5)
Contract processing day
means any day on which charges under the contract are deducted from the separate account.
[85 FR 26105, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.7d-1
Specification of conditions and arrangements for Canadian management investment companies requesting order permitting registration.
(a) A management investment company organized under the laws of Canada or any province thereof may obtain an order pursuant to section 7(d) permitting its registration under the act and the public offering of its securities, if otherwise appropriate, upon the filing of an application complying with paragraph (b) of this section. All such applications will be considered by the Commission pursuant to the procedure set forth in § 270.0-5 and other applicable rules. Conditions and arrangements proposed by investment companies organized under the laws of other countries will be considered by the Commission in the light of the special circumstances and local laws involved in each case.
(b) An application filed pursuant to this section shall contain, inter alia, the following undertakings and agreements of the applicant:
(1) Applicant will cause each present and future officer, director, investment adviser, principal underwriter and custodian of the applicant to enter into an agreement, to be filed by applicant with the Commission upon the filing of its registration statement or upon the assumption of such office by such person which will provide, among other things, that each such person agrees (i) to comply with the applicant's Letters Patent (Charter) and By Laws, the act and the rules thereunder, and the undertakings and agreements contained in said application insofar as applicable to such person; (ii) to do nothing inconsistent with the applicant's undertakings and agreements required by this section; (iii) that the undertakings enumerated as paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section constitute representations and inducements to the Commission to issue its order in the premises and continue the same in effect, as the case may be; (iv) that each such agreement constitutes a contract between such person and the applicant and its shareholders with the intent that applicant's shareholders shall be beneficiaries of and shall have the status of parties to such agreement so as to enable them to maintain actions at law or in equity within the United States and Canada for any violation thereof. In addition the agreement of each officer and director will contain provisions similar to those contained in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(2) That every agreement and undertaking of the applicant, its officers, directors, investment adviser, principal underwriter and custodian required by this section (i) constitute inducements to the Commission for the issuance and continuance in effect of, and conditions to, the Commission's order to be entered under this section; (ii) constitute a contract among applicant and applicant's shareholders with the same intent as set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section; and (iii) failure by the applicant or any of the above enumerated persons to comply with any such agreement and undertaking, unless permitted by the Commission, shall constitute a violation of the order entered under this section.
(3) That the Commission, in its discretion, may revoke its order permitting registration of the applicant and the public offering of its securities if it shall find after notice and opportunity for hearing that there shall have been a violation of such order or the act and may determine whether distribution of applicant's assets is necessary or appropriate in the interests of investors and may so direct.
(4) That applicant will perform every action and thing necessary to cause and assist the custodian of its assets to distribute the same, or the proceeds thereof, if the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, shall have so directed by a final order.
(5) That any shareholder of the applicant or the Commission on its own motion or on request of shareholders shall have the right to initiate a proceeding (i) before the Commission for the revocation of the order permitting registration of the applicant or (ii) before a court of competent jurisdiction for the liquidation of applicant and a distribution of its assets to its shareholders and creditors. Such court may enter such order in the event that it shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing that applicant, its officers, directors, investment adviser, principal underwriter or custodian shall have violated any provision of the act or the Commission's order of registration of the applicant.
A court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this paragraph means the District Court of the United States of the district in which the assets of the applicant are maintained.
(6) That any shareholder of the applicant shall have the right to bring suit at law or in equity, in any court of the United States or Canada having jurisdiction over applicant, its assets or any of its officers or directors to enforce compliance by applicant, its officers and directors with any provision of applicant's Charter or By Laws, the act and the rules thereunder, or undertakings and agreements required by this section, insofar as applicable to
such persons. That such court may appoint a trustee or receiver of the applicant with all powers necessary to implement the purposes of such suit, including the administration of the estate, the collection of corporate property including choses-in-action, and distribution of applicant's assets to its creditors and shareholders. That applicant and its officers and directors waive any objection they may be entitled to raise and any right they may have to object to the power and right of any shareholder of the applicant to bring such suit, reserving, however, their right to maintain that they have complied with the aforesaid provisions, undertakings and agreements, and otherwise to dispute such suit on its merits. Applicant, its officers and directors also agree that any final judgment or decree of any United States court as aforesaid, may be granted full faith and credit by a court of competent jurisdiction of Canada and consent that such Canadian court may enter judgment or decree thereon at the instance of any shareholder, receiver or trustee of the applicant.
(7) Applicant will file, and will cause each of its present or future directors, officers, or investment advisers who is not a resident of the United States to file with the Commission irrevocable designation of the applicant's custodian as an agent in the United States to accept service of process in any suit, action or proceeding before the Commission or any appropriate court to enforce the provisions of the acts administered by the Commission, or to enforce any right or liability based upon applicant's Charter, By Laws, contracts, or the respective undertakings and agreements of any such person required by this section, or which alleges a liability on the part of any such persons arising out of their service, acts of transactions relating to the applicant.
(8) Applicant's Charter and By Laws, taken together, will contain, so long as applicant is registered under the act in substance the following:
(i) The provisions of the Act as follows: Section 2(a):
Provided,
That the term “government securities” defined in section 2(a)(16) may include securities issued or guaranteed by Canada or any instrumentality of the government of Canada; the term “value” defined in section 2(a)(41) may be defined solely for the purposes of sections 5 and 12 in accordance with the provisions of § 270.2a-1 (Rule 2a-1) if the same shall be necessary or desirable to comply with Canadian regulatory or revenue laws or rules or regulations thereunder; the term “bank” defined in section 2(a)(5) shall be defined solely for the purposes of section 9 and 10, as any banking institution; section 4; section 5; section 6(c); section 9; section 10 (a), (b), (c), (e), (f) and (g):
Provided,
That the provisions of section 10(d) may be substituted for the provisions of section 10(a) and 10(b)(2) if applicable; section 11; section 12 (a), (b), (c), and (d); section 13(a); section 15 (a), (b), and (c); section 16(a); sections 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21; section 22(d); section 22(e):
Provided,
That the Toronto Stock Exchange or the Montreal Stock Exchange or both may be included in addition to the New York Stock Exchange; section 22(f); section 22(g); section 23; section 25 (a) and (b); section 30 (a), (b), (d), (e), and (f); section 31; section 32(a):
Provided,
That provision may be made for the selection and termination of employment of the accountant in compliance with The Companies Act of Canada; section 32(b). Where a provision of the act prohibits or directs action by an investment company, or its directors, officers or employees, the Charter or By Laws shall state that the applicant of its directors, officers or employees shall or shall not act, as the case may be, in conformity with the intent of the statute; where the provision applies to others, such as principal underwriters, investment advisers, controlled companies and affiliated persons, the Charter or By Laws shall also state that the applicant will not permit the prohibited conduct or will obtain the required action. Any of the provisions of sections 11, 12, 15, 18, 22, 23, 30, and 31 may be omitted if not applicable to a company of applicant's classification or sub-classification as defined in section 4 or 5 of the act or if not applicable because the subject matter of such provisions is prohibited by the Charter or By Laws. Other provisions of the act not specified above may be incorporated in the applicant's Charter or By Laws at its option.
(ii) Any question of interpretation of any term or provision of the Charter or By Laws having a counterpart in or otherwise derived from a term or provision of the act shall be resolved by reference to interpretations, if any, of the corresponding term or provision of the act by the courts of the United States of America or, in the absence of any controlling decision of any such court, by rules, regulations, orders or interpretations of the Commission.
(iii) Applicant will maintain the original or duplicate copies of its books and records at the office of its custodian or other office located within the United States.
(iv) At least a majority of the directors and of the officers of the applicant will be United States citizens of whom a majority will be resident in the United States.
(v) Except as provided in § 270.17f-5 and § 270.17f-7, applicant will appoint, by contract, a bank, as defined in section 2(a)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(5)) and having the qualification described in section 26(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-26(a)(1)), to act as trustee of, and maintain in its sole custody in the United States, all of applicant's securities and cash, other than cash necessary to meet applicant's current administrative expenses. The contract will provide,
inter alia,
that the custodian will:
(A) Consummate all purchases and sales of securities by applicant, other than purchases and sales on an established securities exchange, through the delivery of securities and receipt of cash, or
vice versa
as the case may be, within the United States, and (B) redeem in the United States such of applicant's shares as shall be surrendered therefor, and (C) distribute applicant's assets, or the proceeds thereof, to applicant's creditors and shareholders, upon service upon the custodian of an order of the Commission or court directing such distribution as provided in paragraphs (b) (3) and (5) of this section.
(vi) Applicant's principal underwriter for the sale of its shares will be a citizen and resident of the United States or a corporation organized under the laws of a state of the United States, and having its principal place of business therein, and if redeemable shares are offered, also a member in good standing of a securities association registered under section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(vii) Applicant will appoint an accountant, qualified to act as an independent public accountant for the applicant under the act and the rules thereunder, who maintains a permanent office and place of business in the United States.
(viii) Any contract entered into between the applicant and its investment adviser and principal underwriter will contain provisions in compliance with the requirements of sections 15, 17(i) and 31 and the rules thereunder, and require that the investment adviser maintain in the United States its books and records or duplicate copies thereof relating to applicant.
(ix) Applicant's Charter and By Laws will not be changed in any manner inconsistent with this paragraph or the Act and the rules thereunder unless authorized by the Commission.
(9) Contracts of the applicant, other than those executed on an established securities exchange which do not involve affiliated persons, will provide that:
(i) Such contracts, irrespective of the place of their execution or performance, will be performed in accordance with the requirements of the Act, the Securities Act of 1933, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, if the subject matter of such contracts is within the purview of such acts; and
(ii) In effecting the purchase or sale of assets the parties thereto will utilize the United States mails or means of interstate commerce.
(10) Applicant will furnish to the Commission with its registration statement filed under the Act a list of persons affiliated with it and with its investment adviser and principal underwriter and will furnish revisions of such list, if any, concurrently with the filing of periodic reports required to be filed under the Act.
(Sec. 7, 54 Stat. 802; 15 U.S.C. 80a-7; secs. 6(c); 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c); and 38(a); 15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a) of the Act)
[19 FR 2585, May 5, 1954, as amended at 38 FR 8593, Apr. 4, 1973; 49 FR 36084, Sept. 14, 1984; 65 FR 25637, May 3, 2000]
§ 270.7d-2
Definition of “public offering” as used in section 7(d) of the Act with respect to certain Canadian tax-deferred retirement savings accounts.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1)
Canadian law
means the federal laws of Canada, the laws of any province or territory of Canada, and the rules or regulations of any federal, provincial, or territorial regulatory authority, or any self-regulatory authority, of Canada.
(2)
Canadian Retirement Account
means a trust or other arrangement, including, but not limited to, a “Registered Retirement Savings Plan” or “Registered Retirement Income Fund” administered under Canadian law, that is managed by the Participant and:
(i) Operated to provide retirement benefits to a Participant; and
(ii) Established in Canada, administered under Canadian law, and qualified for tax-deferred treatment under Canadian law.
(3)
Eligible Security
means a security issued by a Qualified Company that:
(i) Is offered to a Participant, or sold to his or her Canadian Retirement Account, in reliance on this section; and
(ii) May also be purchased by Canadians other than Participants.
(4)
Foreign Government
means the government of any foreign country or of any political subdivision of a foreign country.
(5)
Foreign Issuer
means any issuer that is a Foreign Government, a national of any foreign country or a corporation or other organization incorporated or organized under the laws of any foreign country, except an issuer meeting the following conditions:
(i) More than 50 percent of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer are held of record either directly or through voting trust certificates or depositary receipts by residents of the United States; and
(ii) Any of the following:
(A) The majority of the executive officers or directors are United States citizens or residents;
(B) More than 50 percent of the assets of the issuer are located in the United States; or
(C) The business of the issuer is administered principally in the United States.
(iii) For purposes of this definition, the term
resident,
as applied to security holders, means any person whose address appears on the records of the issuer, the voting trustee, or the depositary as being located in the United States.
(6)
Participant
means a natural person who is a resident of the United States, or is temporarily present in the United States, and who contributes to, or is or will be entitled to receive the income and assets from, a Canadian Retirement Account.
(7)
Qualified Company
means a Foreign Issuer whose securities are qualified for investment on a tax-deferred basis by a Canadian Retirement Account under Canadian law.
(8)
United States
means the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
(b)
Public Offering.
For purposes of section 7(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-7(d)), the term “public offering” does not include the offer to a Participant, or the sale to his or her Canadian Retirement Account, of Eligible Securities issued by a Qualified Company, if the Qualified Company:
(1) Includes in any written offering materials delivered to a Participant, or to his or her Canadian Retirement Account, a prominent statement that the Eligible Security, and the Qualified Company that issued the Eligible Security, are not registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and that the Eligible Security and the Qualified Company are relying on exemptions from registration.
(2) Has not asserted that Canadian law, or the jurisdiction of the courts of Canada, does not apply in a proceeding involving an Eligible Security.
[65 FR 37677, June 15, 2000]
§ 270.8b-1
Scope of §§ 270.8b-1 through 270.8b-31.
The rules contained in §§ 270.8b-1 through 270.8b-31 shall govern all registration statements pursuant to section 8 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), including notifications of registration pursuant to section 8(a), and all reports
pursuant to section 30(a) or (b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(a) or (b)), including all amendments to such statements and reports, except that any provision in a form covering the same subject matter as any such rule shall be controlling.
[83 FR 40880, Aug. 16, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 26109, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.8b-2
Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this section, when used in the rules contained in §§ 270.8b-1 through 270.8b-32, in the rules under section 30(a) or (b) of the Act or in the forms for registration statements and reports pursuant to section 8 or 30(a) or (b) of the Act, shall have the respective meanings indicated in this section. The terms “EDGAR,” “EDGAR Filer Manual,” “electronic filer,” “electronic filing,” “electronic format,” “electronic submission,” “paper format,” and “signature” shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in part 232 of this chapter (Regulation S-T—General Rules for Electronic Filings).
(a)
Amount.
The term “amount”, when used in regard to securities, means the principal amount if relating to evidences of indebtedness, the number of shares if relating to shares, and the number of units if relating to any other kind of security.
(b)
Certified.
The term “certified”, when used in regard to financial statements, means certified by an independent public or independent certified public accountant or accountants.
(c)
Charter.
The term “charter” includes articles of incorporation, declaration of trust, articles of association or partnership, or any similar instrument, as amended, effecting (either with or without filing with any governmental agency) the organization or creation of an incorporated or unincorporated person.
(d)
Employee.
The term “employee” does not include a director, trustee, officer or member of the advisory board.
(e)
Fiscal year.
The term “fiscal year” means the annual accounting period or, if no closing date has been adopted, the calendar year ending on December 31.
(f)
Investment income.
The term “investment income” means the aggregate of net operating income or loss from real estate and gross income from interest, dividends and all other sources, exclusive of profit or loss on sales of securities or other properties.
(g)
Material.
The term “material”, when used to qualify a requirement for the furnishing of information as to any subject, limits the information required to those matters as to which an average prudent investor ought reasonably to be informed before buying or selling any security of the particular company.
(h)
Parent.
A “parent” of a specified person is an affiliated person who controls the specified person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
(i)
Previously filed or reported.
The terms “previously filed” and “previously reported” means previously filed with, or reported in, a registration statement filed under section 8 of the Act or under the Securities Act of 1933, a report filed under section 30 of the Act or section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a definitive proxy statement filed under section 20 of the Act or section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or a prospectus filed under the Securities Act of 1933:
Provided,
That information contained in any such document shall be deemed to have been previously filed with, or reported to, an exchange only if such document is filed with such exchange.
(j)
Share.
The term “share” means a share of stock in a corporation or unit of interest in an unincorporated person.
(k)
Significant subsidiary.
The term “significant subsidiary” means a subsidiary, including its subsidiaries, which meets any of the following conditions, using amounts determined under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and, if applicable, section 2(a)(41) of the Act:
(1)
Investment test.
The value of the registrant's and its other subsidiaries' investments in and advances to the tested subsidiary exceed 10 percent of the value of the total investments of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year; or
(2)
Income test.
The absolute value of the sum of combined investment income from dividends, interest, and other income, the net realized gains and losses on investments, and the net change in unrealized gains and losses on investments from the tested subsidiary, for the most recently completed fiscal year exceeds:
(i) 80 percent of the absolute value of the change in net assets resulting from operations of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated for the most recently completed fiscal year; or
(ii) 10 percent of the absolute value of the change in net assets resulting from operations of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated for the most recently completed fiscal year and the investment test (paragraph (k)(1) of this section) condition exceeds 5 percent. However, if the absolute value of the change in net assets resulting from operations of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated is at least 10 percent lower than the average of the absolute value of such amounts for each of its last five fiscal years, then the registrant may compute both conditions of the income test using the average of the absolute value of such amounts for the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated for each of its last five fiscal years.
(l)
Subsidiary.
A “subsidiary” of a specified person is an affiliated person who is controlled by the specified person, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries.
(m)
Totally-held subsidiary.
The term “totally-held subsidiary” means a subsidiary (1) substantially all of whose outstanding securities are owned by its parent and/or the parent's other totally-held subsidiaries, and (2) which is not indebted to any person other than its parent and/or the parent's other totally-held subsidiaries in an amount which is material in relation to the particular subsidiary, excepting indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business which is not over-due and which matures within one year from the date of its creation, whether evidenced by securities or not.
[18 FR 8575, Dec. 19, 1953, as amended at 19 FR 2779, May 14, 1954; 58 FR 14860, Mar. 18, 1993; 65 FR 24802, Apr. 27, 2000; 70 FR 6572, Feb. 8, 2005; 83 FR 40878, Aug. 16, 2018; 85 FR 54073, Aug. 31, 2020]
§ 270.8b-3
Title of securities.
Wherever the title of securities is required to be stated, there shall be given such information as will indicate the type and general character of the securities, including the following:
(a) In the case of shares, the par or stated value, if any; the rate of dividends, if fixed, and whether cumulative or noncumulative; a brief indication of the preference, if any; and if convertible, a statement to that effect.
(b) In the case of funded debt, the rate of interest; the date of maturity, or if the issue matures serially, a brief indication of the serial maturities, such as “maturing serially from 1950 to 1960”; if the payment of principal or interest is contingent, an appropriate indication of such contingency; a brief indication of the priority of the issue; and if convertible, a statement to that effect.
(c) In the case of any other kind of security, appropriate information of comparable character.
[18 FR 8575, Dec. 19, 1953]
§ 270.8b-4
Interpretation of requirements.
Unless the context clearly shows otherwise:
(a) The forms require information only as to the company filing the registration statement or report.
(b) Whenever any fixed period of time in the past is indicated, such period shall be computed from the date of filing.
(c) Whenever words relate to the future, they have reference solely to present intention.
(d) Any words indicating the holder of a position or office include persons, by whatever titles designated, whose duties are those ordinarily performed by holders of such positions or officers.
[18 FR 8575, Dec. 18, 1953]
§ 270.8b-5
Time of filing original registration statement.
An investment company shall file a registration statement with the Commission on the appropriate form within three months after the filing of notification of registration under section 8(a) of the Act, provided that if the fiscal year of the company ends within the three months period, its registration statement may be filed within three months after the end of such fiscal year.
[19 FR 2779, May 14, 1954]
§ 270.8b-6
[Reserved]
§ 270.8b-10
Requirements as to proper form.
Every registration statement or report shall be prepared in accordance with the form prescribed therefor by the Commission, as in effect on the date of filing. Any such statement or report shall be deemed to be filed on the proper form unless objection to the form is made by the Commission within thirty days after the date of filing.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953]
§ 270.8b-11
Number of copies; signatures; binding.
(a) Three complete copies of each registration statement or report, including exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as a part thereof, shall be filed with the Commission.
(b) In the case of a registration statement filed on Form N-1A (§ 239.15A and § 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§ 239.14 and § 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§ 239.17a and § 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§ 239.17b and § 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§ 239.17c and § 274.11d of this chapter), three complete copies of each part of the registration statement (including, if applicable, exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as part of Part C of the registration statement) shall be filed with the Commission.
(c) At least one copy of the registration statement or report shall be signed in the manner prescribed by the appropriate form. Unsigned copies shall be conformed. If the signature of any person is affixed pursuant to a power of attorney or other similar authority, a copy of such power of attorney or other authority shall also be filed with the registration statement or report.
(d) Each copy of a registration statement or report filed with the Commission shall be bound in one or more parts without stiff covers. The binding shall be made on the left-hand side and in such manner as to leave the reading matter legible.
(e)
Signatures.
Where the Act or the rules thereunder, including paragraph (c) of this section, require a document filed with or furnished to the Commission to be signed, the document should be manually signed, or signed using either typed signatures or duplicated or facsimile versions of manual signatures. When typed, duplicated, or facsimile signatures are used, each signatory to the filing shall manually or electronically sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing (“authentication document”). Execute each such authentication document before or at the time the filing is made and retain for a period of five years. The requirements set forth in § 232.302(b) must be met with regards to the use of an electronically signed authentication document pursuant to this paragraph (e). Upon request, the registrant shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this section.
[49 FR 32059, Aug. 10, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 26160, June 25, 1985; 57 FR 56835, Dec. 1, 1992; 60 FR 26622, May 17, 1995; 63 FR 13944, Mar. 23, 1998; 67 FR 19870, Apr. 23, 2002; 85 FR 78320, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 270.8b-12
Requirements as to paper, printing and language.
(a) Registration statements and reports shall be filed on good quality, unglazed, white paper, no larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size, insofar as practicable. To the extent that the reduction of larger documents would render them illegible, such documents may be filed on paper larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size.
(b) In the case of a registration statement filed on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter),
Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§ 239.17c and § 274.11d of this chapter), Part C of the registration statement shall be filed on good quality, unglazed, white paper, no larger than 8
1/2
× 11 inches in size, insofar as practicable. The prospectus and, if applicable, the Statement of Additional Information, however, may be filed on smaller-sized paper provided that the size of paper used in each document is uniform.
(c) The registration statement or report and, insofar as practicable all papers and documents filed as a part thereof, shall be printed, lithographed, mimeographed or typewritten. However, the registration statement or report or any portion thereof may be prepared by any similar process which, in the opinion of the Commission, produces copies suitable for permanent record. Irrespective of the process used, all copies of any such material shall be clear, easily readable and suitable for repeated photocopying. Debits in credit categories and credits in debit categories shall be designated so as to be clearly distinguishable as such on photocopies.
(d) The body of all printed registration statements and reports and all notes to financial statements and other tabular data included therein shall be in roman type at least as large as 10-point modern type. However, to the extent necessary for convenient presentation, financial statements and other statistical or tabular data, including tabular data in notes, may be set in type at least as large and as legible as 8-point modern type. All type shall be leaded at least 2-points.
(e) Registration statements and reports shall be in the English language. If any exhibit or other paper or document filed with a registration statement or report is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by a translation into the English language.
(f) Where a registration statement or report is distributed through an electronic medium, issuers may satisfy legibility requirements applicable to printed documents, such as paper size, type size and font, bold-face type, italics and red ink, by presenting all required information in a format readily communicated to investors, and where indicated, in a manner reasonably calculated to draw investor attention to specific information.
[49 FR 32060, Aug. 10, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 26160, June 25, 1985; 57 FR 56836, Dec. 1, 1992; 61 FR 24657, May 15, 1996; 67 FR 19870, Apr. 23, 2002]
§ 270.8b-13
Preparation of registration statement or report.
The registration statement or report shall contain the numbers and captions of all items of the appropriate form, but the text of the items may be omitted provided the answers thereto are so prepared as to indicate to the reader the coverage of the items without the necessity of his referring to the text of the items or instructions thereto. However, where any item requires information to be given in tabular form, it shall be given in substantially the tabular form specified in the item. All instructions, whether appearing under the items of the form or elsewhere therein, are to be omitted from the registration statement or report. Unless expressly provided otherwise, if any item is inapplicable or the answer thereto is in the negative, an appropriate statement to that effect shall be made.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953]
§ 270.8b-14
Riders; inserts.
Riders shall not be used. If the registration statement or report is typed on a printed form, and the space provided for the answer to any given item is insufficient, reference shall be made in such space to a full insert page or pages on which the item number and caption and the complete answer are given.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953]
§ 270.8b-15
Amendments.
All amendments shall be filed under cover of the facing sheet of the appropriate form, shall be clearly identified as amendments, and shall comply with all pertinent requirements applicable to registration statements and reports. Amendments shall be filed separately for each separate registration or report amended. Except as permitted under rule 102(b) of Regulation S-T
(§ 232.102(b) of this chapter), any amendment filed under this section shall state the complete text of each item amended. An amendment to any report required to include the certifications as specified in § 270.30a-2(a) must include new certifications by each principal executive and principal financial officer of the registrant, and an amendment to any report required to be accompanied by the certifications as specified in § 240.13a-14(b) or § 240.15d-14(b) and § 270.30a-2(b) must be accompanied by new certifications by each principal executive and principal financial officer of the registrant.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953, as amended at 58 FR 14860, Mar. 18, 1993; 68 FR 5365, Feb. 3, 2003; 68 FR 36671, June 18, 2003]
§ 270.8b-16
Amendments to registration statement.
(a) Every registered management investment company which is required to file an annual report on Form N-CEN, as prescribed by § 270.30a-1 of this chaptershall amend the registration statement required pursuant to Section 8(b) by filing, not more than 120 days after the close of each fiscal year ending on or after the date upon which such registration statement was filed, the appropriate form prescribed for such amendments.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to a registered closed-end management investment company whose registration statement was filed on Form N-2; provided that the following information is transmitted to shareholders in its annual report to shareholders:
(1) If the company offers a dividend reinvestment plan to shareholders, information about the plan required to be disclosed in the company's prospectus by Item 10.1.e of Form N-2 (17 CFR 274.11a-1);
(2) The company's investment objectives and policies (described in Item 8.2 of Form N-2), and any material changes to same that have not been approved by shareholders;
(3) Any changes in the company's charter or by-laws that would delay or prevent a change of control of the company (described in Item 10.1.f of Form N-2) that have not been approved by shareholders;
(4) The principal risk factors associated with investment in the company (described in Item 8.3 of Form N-2), and any material changes to same; and
(5) Any changes in the persons who are primarily responsible for the day-to-day management of the company's portfolio (described in Item 9.1.c of Form N-2), including any new person's business experience during the past five years and the length of time he or she has been responsible for the management of the portfolio.
(c) In lieu of including a description of the dividend reinvestment plan in its annual report, a company may comply with the disclosure requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section concerning a company's dividend reinvestment plan by delivering to each shareholder annually a separate document containing the information about the plan required to be disclosed in the company's prospectus by Item 10.1.e of Form N-2. Any such document shall be deemed to be a record or document subject to the record-keeping requirements of section 31 (15 U.S.C. 80a-30) and the rules adopted thereunder (17 CFR 270.31a-1
et seq.
).
(d) The changes required to be disclosed by paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(5) of this section are those that occurred since the later of either the effective date of the company's registration statement relating to its initial offering of securities under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) (or the most recent post-effective amendment thereto) or the close of the period covered by the previously transmitted annual shareholder report.
(e) The changes required to be disclosed by paragraphs (b)(2) through (5) of this section must be described in enough detail to allow investors to understand each change and how it may affect the fund. Such disclosures must be prefaced with the following legend: “The following information [in this annual report] is a summary of certain changes since [date]. This information may not reflect all of the changes that have occurred since you purchased [this fund].”
[54 FR 10321, Mar. 13, 1989, as amended at 57 FR 56836, Dec. 1, 1992; 81 FR 82020, Nov. 18, 2016; 85 FR 33360, June 1, 2020]
§ 270.8b-20
Additional information.
In addition to the information expressly required to be included in a registration statement or report, there shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953]
§ 270.8b-21
Information unknown or not available.
Information required need be given only insofar as it is known or reasonably available to the registrant. If any required information is unknown and not reasonably available to the registrant, either because the obtaining thereof would involve unreasonable effort or expense, or because it rests peculiarly within the knowledge of another person not affiliated with the registrant, the information may be omitted subject to the following conditions:
(a) The registrant shall give such information on the subject as it possesses or can acquire without unreasonable effort or expense, together with the sources thereof.
(b) The registrant shall include a statement either showing that unreasonable effort or expense would be involved or indicating the absence of any affiliation with the person within whose knowledge the information rests and stating the result of a request made to such person for the information.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953]
§ 270.8b-22
Disclaimer of control.
If the existence of control is open to reasonable doubt in any instance, the registrant may disclaim the existence of control and any admission thereof; in such case, however, the registrant shall state the material facts pertinent to the possible existence of control.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953]
§§ 270.8b-23—270.8b-24
[Reserved]
§ 270.8b-25
Extension of time for furnishing information.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, if it is impractical to furnish any required information, document or report at the time it is required to be filed, there may be filed with the Commission as a separate document an application (a) identifying the information, document or report in question, (b) stating why the filing thereof at the time required is impracticable, and (c) requesting an extension of time for filing the information, document or report to a specified date not more than 60 days after the date it would otherwise have to be filed. The application shall be deemed granted unless the Commission, within 10 days after receipt thereof, shall enter an order denying the application. Section 270.0-5 (Rule N-5) shall not apply to such applications.
(b) If it is impracticable to furnish any document or report required to be filed in electronic format at the time it is required to be filed, the electronic filer may file under the temporary hardship provision of rule 201 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201 of this chapter) or may submit a written application for a continuing hardship exemption, in accordance with rule 202 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.202 of this chapter). Applications for such exemptions shall be considered in accordance with the provisions of those sections and paragraphs (h) and (i) of § 200.30-5 of this chapter.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953, as amended at 58 FR 14860, Mar. 18, 1993; 60 FR 14630, Mar. 20, 1995]
§ 270.8b-30
Additional exhibits.
A company may file such exhibits as it may desire, in addition to those required by the appropriate form. Such exhibits shall be so marked as to indicate clearly the subject matters to which they refer.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953]
§ 270.8b-31
Omission of substantially identical documents.
In any case where two or more indentures, contracts, franchises, or other documents required to be filed as exhibits are substantially identical in all material respects except as to the parties thereto, the dates of execution, or other details, copies of only one of such documents need be filed, with a schedule identifying the other documents
omitted and setting forth the material details in which such documents differ from the documents filed. The Commission may at any time in its discretion require the filing of copies of any documents so omitted.
[18 FR 8576, Dec. 19, 1953]
§ 270.8b-32
[Reserved]
§ 270.8f-1
Deregistration of certain registered investment companies.
A registered investment company that seeks a Commission order declaring that it is no longer an investment company may file an application with the Commission on Form N-8F (17 CFR 274.218) if the investment company:
(a) Has sold substantially all of its assets to another registered investment company or merged into or consolidated with another registered investment company;
(b) Has distributed substantially all of its assets to its shareholders and has completed, or is in the process of, winding up its affairs;
(c) Qualifies for an exclusion from the definition of “investment company” under section 3(c)(1) (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1)) or section 3(c)(7) (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7)) of the Act; or
(d) Has become a business development company.

# Note to § 270.8
f

# -1:
Applicants who are not eligible to use Form N-8F to file an application to deregister may follow the general guidance for filing applications under rule 0-2 (17 CFR 270.0-2) of this chapter.
[64 FR 19471, Apr. 21, 1999]
§ 270.10b-1
Definition of regular broker or dealer.
The term
regular broker or dealer
of an investment company shall mean:
(a) One of the ten brokers or dealers that received the greatest dollar amount of brokerage commissions by virtue of direct or indirect participation in the company's portfolio transactions during the company's most recent fiscal year;
(b) One of the ten brokers or dealers that engaged as principal in the largest dollar amount of portfolio transactions of the investment company during the company's most recent fiscal year; or
(c) One of the ten brokers or dealers that sold the largest dollar amount of securities of the investment company during the company's most recent fiscal year.
[49 FR 40572, Oct. 17, 1984]
§ 270.10e-1
Death, disqualification, or bona fide resignation of directors.
If a registered investment company, by reason of the death, disqualification, or bona fide resignation of any director, does not meet any requirement of the Act or any rule or regulation thereunder regarding the composition of the company's board of directors, the operation of the relevant subsection of the Act, rule, or regulation will be suspended as to the company:
(a) For 90 days if the vacancy may be filled by action of the board of directors; or
(b) For 150 days if a vote of stockholders is required to fill the vacancy.
[66 FR 3758, Jan. 16, 2001]
§ 270.10f-1
Conditional exemption of certain underwriting transactions.
Any purchase or other acquisition by a registered management company acting, pursuant to a written agreement, as an underwriter of securities of an issuer which is not an investment company shall be exempt from the provisions of section 10(f) (54 Stat. 806; 15 U.S.C. 80a-10) upon the following conditions:
(a) The party to such agreement other than such registered company is a principal underwriter of such securities, which principal underwriter (1) is a person primarily engaged in the business of underwriting and distributing securities issued by other persons, selling securities to customers, or related activities, whose gross income normally is derived principally from such business or related activities, and (2) does not control or is not under common control with such registered company.
(b) No public offering of the securities underwritten by such agreement has been made prior to the execution thereof.
(c) Such securities have been effectively registered pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 (48 Stat. 74; 15 U.S.C. 77a-aa) prior to the execution of such agreement.
(d) In regard to any securities underwritten, whether or not purchased, by the registered company pursuant to such agreement, such company shall be allowed a rate of gross commission, spread, concession or other profit not less than the amount allowed to such principal underwriter, exclusive of any amounts received by such principal underwriter as a management fee from other principal underwriters.
(e) Such agreement is authorized by resolution adopted by a vote of not less than a majority of the board of directors of such registered company, none of which majority is an affiliated person of such principal underwriter, of the issuer of the securities underwritten pursuant to such agreement or of any person engaged in a business described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(f) The resolution required in paragraph (e) of this section shall state that it has been adopted pursuant to this section, and shall incorporate the terms of the proposed agreement by attaching a copy thereof as an exhibit or otherwise.
(g) A copy of the resolution required in paragraph (e) of this section, signed by each member of the board of directors of the registered company who voted in favor of its adoption, shall be transmitted to the Commission not later than the fifth day succeeding the date on which such agreement is executed.
[Rule N-10F-1, 6 FR 1191, Feb. 28, 1941]
§ 270.10f-2
Exercise of warrants or rights received on portfolio securities.
Any purchase or other acquisition of securities by a registered investment company pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights to subscribe to or to purchase securities shall be exempt from the provisions of section 10(f) (section 10(f), 54 Stat. 807; 15 U.S.C. 80a-10) of the Act,
Provided,
That the warrants or rights so exercised (a) were offered or issued to such company as a security holder on the same basis as all other holders of the class or classes of securities to whom such warrants or rights were offered or issued, and (b) do not exceed 5 percent of the total amount of such warrants or rights so issued.
[Rule N-10F-2, 9 FR 339, Jan. 8, 1944]
§ 270.10f-3
Exemption for the acquisition of securities during the existence of an underwriting or selling syndicate.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Domestic Issuer
means any issuer other than a foreign government, a national of any foreign country, or a corporation or other organization incorporated or organized under the laws of any foreign country.
(2)
Eligible Foreign Offering
means a public offering of securities, conducted under the laws of a country other than the United States, that meets the following conditions:
(i) The offering is subject to regulation by a “foreign financial regulatory authority,” as defined in section 2(a)(50) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(50)], in such country;
(ii) The securities are offered at a fixed price to all purchasers in the offering (except for any rights to purchase securities that are required by law to be granted to existing security holders of the issuer);
(iii) Financial statements, prepared and audited in accordance with standards required or permitted by the appropriate foreign financial regulatory authority in such country, for the two years prior to the offering, are made available to the public and prospective purchasers in connection with the offering; and
(iv) If the issuer is a Domestic Issuer, it meets the following conditions:
(A) It has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78
l
(b) or 78
l
(g)] or is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78o(d)]; and
(B) It has filed all the material required to be filed pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)] for a period of at least twelve months immediately preceding the sale of securities made in reliance upon this (or for such shorter period that the issuer was required to file such material).
(3)
Eligible Municipal Securities
means “municipal securities,” as defined in section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29)), that are sufficiently liquid that they can be sold at or near their carrying value within a reasonably short period of time and either:
(i) Are subject to no greater than moderate credit risk; or
(ii) If the issuer of the municipal securities, or the entity supplying the revenues or other payments from which the issue is to be paid, has been in continuous operation for less than three years, including the operation of any predecessors, the securities are subject to a minimal or low amount of credit risk.
(4)
Eligible Rule 144A Offering
means an offering of securities that meets the following conditions:
(i) The securities are offered or sold in transactions exempt from registration under section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77d(2)], rule 144A thereunder [§ 230.144A of this chapter], or rules 501-508 thereunder [§§ 230.501-230.508 of this chapter];
(ii) The securities are sold to persons that the seller and any person acting on behalf of the seller reasonably believe to include qualified institutional buyers, as defined in § 230.144A(a)(1) of this chapter; and
(iii) The seller and any person acting on behalf of the seller reasonably believe that the securities are eligible for resale to other qualified institutional buyers pursuant to § 230.144A of this chapter.
(5)
Managed portion
of a portfolio of a registered investment company means a discrete portion of a portfolio of a registered investment company for which a subadviser is responsible for providing investment advice, provided that:
(i) The subadviser is not an affiliated person of any investment adviser, promoter, underwriter, officer, director, member of an advisory board, or employee of the registered investment company; and
(ii) The subadviser's advisory contract:
(A) Prohibits it from consulting with any subadviser of the investment company that is a principal underwriter or an affiliated person of a principal underwriter concerning transactions of the investment company in securities or other assets; and
(B) Limits its responsibility in providing advice to providing advice with respect to such portion.
(6)
Series of a series company
means any class or series of a registered investment company that issues two or more classes or series of preferred or special stock, each of which is preferred over all other classes or series with respect to assets specifically allocated to that class or series.
(7)
Subadviser
means an investment adviser as defined in section 2(a)(20)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(20)(B)).
(b)
Exemption for purchases by series companies and investment companies with managed portions.
For purposes of this section and section 10(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-10(f)), each Series of a Series Company, and each Managed Portion of a registered investment company, is deemed to be a separate investment company. Therefore, a purchase or acquisition of a security by a registered investment company is exempt from the prohibitions of section 10(f) of the Act if section 10(f) of the Act would not prohibit such purchase if each Series and each Managed Portion of the company were a separately registered investment company.
(c)
Exemption for other purchases.
Any purchase of securities by a registered investment company prohibited by section 10(f) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-10(f)] shall be exempt from the provisions of such section if the following conditions are met:
(1)
Type of Security.
The securities to be purchased are:
(i) Part of an issue registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a—aa) that is being offered to the public;
(ii) Part of an issue of government securities, as defined in section 2(a)(16) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(16));
(iii) Eligible Municipal Securities;
(iv) Securities sold in an Eligible Foreign Offering; or
(v) Securities sold in an Eligible Rule 144A Offering.
(2)
Timing and Price.
(i) The securities are purchased prior to the end of the first day on which any sales are made,
at a price that is not more than the price paid by each other purchaser of securities in that offering or in any concurrent offering of the securities (except, in the case of an Eligible Foreign Offering, for any rights to purchase that are required by law to be granted to existing security holders of the issuer); and
(ii) If the securities are offered for subscription upon exercise of rights, the securities shall be purchased on or before the fourth day preceding the day on which the rights offering terminates.
(3)
Reasonable reliance.
For purposes of determining compliance with paragraphs (c)(1)(v) and (c)(2)(i) of this section, an investment company may reasonably rely upon written statements made by the issuer or a syndicate manager, or by an underwriter or seller of the securities through which such investment company purchases the securities.
(4)
Continuous operation.
If the securities to be purchased are part of an issue registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a-aa) that is being offered to the public, are government securities (as defined in section 2(a)(16) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(16))), or are purchased pursuant to an Eligible Foreign Offering or an Eligible Rule 144A Offering, the issuer of the securities must have been in continuous operation for not less than three years, including the operations of any predecessors.
(5)
Firm Commitment Underwriting.
The securities are offered pursuant to an underwriting or similar agreement under which the underwriters are committed to purchase all of the securities being offered, except those purchased by others pursuant to a rights offering, if the underwriters purchase any of the securities.
(6)
Reasonable commission.
The commission, spread or profit received or to be received by the principal underwriters is reasonable and fair compared to the commission, spread or profit received by other such persons in connection with the underwriting of similar securities being sold during a comparable period of time.
(7)
Percentage limit
—(i)
Generally.
The amount of securities of any class of such issue to be purchased by the investment company, aggregated with purchases by any other investment company advised by the investment company's investment adviser, and any purchases by another account with respect to which the investment adviser has investment discretion if the investment adviser exercised such investment discretion with respect to the purchase, does not exceed the following limits:
(A) If purchased in an offering other than an Eligible Rule 144A Offering, 25 percent of the principal amount of the offering of such class; or
(B) If purchased in an Eligible Rule 144A Offering, 25 percent of the total of:
(
1
) The principal amount of the offering of such class sold by underwriters or members of the selling syndicate to qualified institutional buyers, as defined in § 230.144A(a)(1) of this chapter; plus
(
2
) The principal amount of the offering of such class in any concurrent public offering.
(ii)
Exemption from percentage limit.
The requirement in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section applies only if the investment adviser of the investment company is, or is an affiliated person of, a principal underwriter of the security; and
(iii)
Separate aggregation.
The requirement in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section applies independently with respect to each investment adviser of the investment company that is, or is an affiliated person of, a principal underwriter of the security.
(8)
Prohibition of Certain Affiliate Transactions.
Such investment company does not purchase the securities being offered directly or indirectly from an officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or employee of such investment company or from a person of which any such officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or employee is an affiliated person;
provided,
that a purchase from a syndicate manager shall not be deemed to be a purchase from a specific underwriter if:
(i) Such underwriter does not benefit directly or indirectly from the transaction; or
(ii) In respect to the purchase of Eligible Municipal Securities, such purchase is not designated as a group sale or otherwise allocated to the account of any person from whom this paragraph prohibits the purchase.
(9) [Reserved]
(10)
Board review.
The board of directors of the investment company, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the investment company:
(i) Has approved procedures, pursuant to which such purchases may be effected for the company, that are reasonably designed to provide that the purchases comply with all the conditions of this section;
(ii) Approves such changes to the procedures as the board deems necessary; and
(iii) Determines no less frequently than quarterly that all purchases made during the preceding quarter were effected in compliance with such procedures.
(11)
Board composition.
The board of directors of the investment company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7).
(12)
Maintenance of records.
The investment company:
(i) Shall maintain and preserve permanently in an easily accessible place a written copy of the procedures, and any modification thereto, described in paragraphs (c)(10)(i) and (c)(10)(ii) of this section; and
(ii) Shall maintain and preserve for a period not less than six years from the end of the fiscal year in which any transactions occurred, the first two years in an easily accessible place, a written record of each such transaction, setting forth from whom the securities were acquired, the identity of the underwriting syndicate's members, the terms of the transaction, and the information or materials upon which the determination described in paragraph (c)(10)(iii) of this section was made.
[62 FR 42408, Aug. 7, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 3758, Jan. 16, 2001; 67 FR 31079, May 8, 2002; 68 FR 3152, Jan. 22, 2003; 69 FR 46389, Aug. 7, 2004; 74 FR 52373, Oct. 9, 2009; 81 FR 82020, Nov. 18, 2016]
§ 270.11a-1
Definition of “exchange” for purposes of section 11 of the Act.
(a) For the purposes of section 11 of the Act, the term
exchange
as used therein shall include the issuance of any security by a registered investment company in an amount equal to the proceeds, or any portion of the proceeds, paid or payable—
(1) Upon the repurchase, by or at the instance of such issuer, of an outstanding security the terms of which provide for its termination, retirement or cancellation, or
(2) Upon the termination, retirement or cancellation of an outstanding security of such issuer in accordance with the terms thereof.
(b) A security shall not be deemed to have been repurchased by or at the instance of the issuer, or terminated, retired or canceled in accordance with the terms of the security if—
(1) The security was redeemed or repurchased at the instance of the holder; or
(2) A security holder's account was closed for failure to make payments as prescribed in the security or instruments pursuant to which the security was issued, and notice of intention to close the account was mailed to the security holder, and he had a reasonable time in which to meet the deficiency; or
(3) Sale of the security was restricted to a specified, limited group of persons and, in accordance with the terms of the security or the instruments pursuant to which the security was issued, upon its being transferred by the holder to a person not a member of the group eligible to purchase the security, the issuer required the surrender of the security and paid the redemption price thereof.
(c) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply if, following the repurchase of an outstanding security by or at the instance of the issuer or the termination, retirement or cancellation of an outstanding security in accordance with the terms thereof—
(1) The proceeds are actually paid to the security holder by or on behalf of the issuer within 7 days, and
(2) No sale and no offer (other than by way of exchange) of any security of the issuer is made by or on behalf of the issuer to the person to whom such proceeds were paid, within 60 days after such payment.
(d) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to the repurchase, termination, retirement, or cancellation of a security outstanding on the effective date of this section or issued pursuant to a subscription agreement or other plan of acquisition in effect on such date.
(Sec. 11, 54 Stat. 808; 15 U.S.C. 80a-11)
[32 FR 10728, July 21, 1967]
§ 270.11a-2
Offers of exchange by certain registered separate accounts or others the terms of which do not require prior Commission approval.
(a) As used in this section:
(1)
Deferred sales load
shall mean any sales load, including a contingent deferred sales load, that is deducted upon redemption or annuitization of amounts representing all or a portion of a securityholder's interest in a separate account;
(2)
Exchanged security
shall include not only the security or securities (or portion[s] thereof) of a securityholder actually exchanged pursuant to an exchange offer but also any security or securities (or portion[s] thereof) of the securityholder previously exchanged for the exchanged security or its predecessors;
(3)
Front-end sales load
shall mean any sales load that is deducted from one or more purchase payments made by a securityholder before they are invested in a separate account; and
(4)
Purchase payments made for the acquired security,
as used in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d)(2) of this section, shall not include any purchase payments made for the exchanged security or any appreciation attributable to those purchase payments that are transferred to the offering account in connection with an exchange.
(b) Notwithstanding section 11 of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-11], any registered separate account or any principal underwriter for such an account (collectively, the “offering account”) may make or cause to be made an offer to the holder of a security of the offering account, or of any other registered separate account having the same insurance company depositor or sponsor as the offering account or having an insurance company depositor or sponsor that is an affiliate of the offering account's depositor or sponsor, to exchange his security (or portion thereof) (the “exchanged security”) for a security (or portion thereof) of the offering account (the “acquired security”) without the terms of such exchange offer first having been submitted to and approved by the Commission, as provided below:
(1) If the securities (or portions thereof) involved are variable annuity contracts, then
(i) The exchange must be made on the basis of the relative net asset values of the securities to be exchanged, except that the offering account may deduct at the time of the exchange
(A) An administrative fee which is disclosed in the part of the offering account's registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the prospectus, and
(B) Any front-end sales load permitted by paragraph (c) of this section, and
(ii) Any deferred sales load imposed on the acquired security by the offering account shall be calculated in the manner prescribed by paragraph (d) or (e) of this section; or
(2) If the securities (or portions thereof) involved are variable life insurance contracts offered by a separate account registered under the Act as a unit investment trust, then the exchange must be made on the basis of the relative net asset values of the securities to be exchanged, except that the offering account may deduct at the time of the exchange an administrative fee which is disclosed in the part of the offering account's registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the prospectus.
(c) If the offering account imposes a front-end sales load on the acquired security, then such sales load shall be a percentage that is no greater than the excess of the rate of the front-end sales load otherwise applicable to that security over the rate of any front-end sales load previously paid on the exchanged security.
(d) If the offering account imposes a deferred sales load on the acquired security and the exchanged security was also subject to a deferred sales load, then any deferred sales load imposed on the acquired security shall be calculated as if:
(1) The holder of the acquired security had been the holder of that security from the date on which he became the holder of the exchanged security; and
(2) Purchase payments made for the exchanged security had been made for the acquired security on the date on which they were made for the exchanged security.
(e) If the offering account imposes a deferred sales load on the acquired security and a front-end sales load was paid on the exchanged security, then any deferred sales load imposed on the acquired security may not be imposed on purchase payments made for the exchanged security or any appreciation attributable to purchase payments made for the exchanged security that are transferred in connection with the exchange.
(f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no offer of exchange shall be made in reliance on this section if both a front-end sales load and a deferred sales load are to be imposed on the acquired security or if both such sales loads are imposed on the exchanged security.
[48 FR 36245, Aug. 10, 1983, as amended at 85 FR 26109, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.11a-3
Offers of exchange by open-end investment companies other than separate accounts.
(a) For purposes of this rule:
(1)
Acquired security
means the security held by a securityholder after completing an exchange pursuant to an exchange offer;
(2)
Administrative fee
means any fee, other than a sales load, deferred sales load or redemption fee, that is
(i) Reasonably intended to cover the costs incurred in processing exchanges of the type for which the fee is charged,
Provided that:
the offering company will maintain and preserve records of any determination of the costs incurred in connection with exchanges for a period of not less than six years, the first two years in an easily accessible place. The records preserved under this provision shall be subject to inspection by the Commission in accordance with section 31(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-30(b)) as if such records were records required to be maintained under rules adopted under section 31(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-30a)); or
(ii) A nominal fee as defined in paragraph (a)(8) of this section;
(3)
Deferred sales load
means any amount properly chargeable to sales or promotional expenses that is paid by a shareholder after purchase but before or upon redemption;
(4)
Exchanged security
means
(i) The security actually exchanged pursuant to an exchange offer, and
(ii) Any security previously exchanged for such security or for any of its predecessors;
(5)
Group of investment companies
means any two or more registered open-end investment companies that hold themselves out to investors as related companies for purposes of investment and investor services, and
(i) That have a common investment adviser or principal underwriter, or
(ii) The investment adviser or principal underwriter of one of the companies is an affiliated person as defined in section 2(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(3)) of the investment adviser or principal underwriter of each of the other companies;
(6)
Offering company
means a registered open-end investment company (other than a registered separate account) or any principal underwriter thereof that makes an offer (an “exchange offer”) to the holder of a security of that company, or of another open-end investment company within the same group of investment companies as the offering company, to exchange that security for a security of the offering company;
(7)
Redemption fee
means a fee that is imposed by the fund pursuant to section 270.22c-2; and
(8)
Nominal fee
means a slight or
de minimis
fee.
(b) Nothwithstanding section 11(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-11(a)), and except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, in connection with an exchange offer an offering company may cause a securityholder to be charged a
sales load on the acquired security, a redemption fee, an administrative fee, or any combination of the foregoing,
Provided that:
(1) Any administrative fee or scheduled variation thereof is applied uniformly to all securityholders of the class specified;
(2) Any redemption fee charged with respect to the exchanged security or any scheduled variation thereof
(i) Is applied uniformly to all securityholders of the class specified, and
(ii) Does not exceed the redemption fee applicable to a redemption of the exchanged security in the absence of an exchange.
(3) No deferred sales load is imposed on the exchanged security at the time of an exchange;
(4) Any sales load charged with respect to the acquired security is a percentage that is no greater than the excess, if any, of the rate of the sales load applicable to that security in the absence of an exchange over the sum of the rates of all sales loads previously paid on the exchanged security,
Provided that:
(i) The percentage rate of any sales load charged when the acquired security is redeemed, that is solely the result of a deferred sales load imposed on the exchanged security, may be no greater than the excess, if any, of the applicable rate of such sales load, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section, over the sum of the rates of all sales loads previously paid on the acquired security, and
(ii) In no event may the sum of the rates of all sales loads imposed prior to and at the time the acquired security is redeemed, including any sales load paid or to be paid with respect to the exchanged security, exceed the maximum sales load rate, calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section, that would be applicable in the absence of an exchange to the security (exchanged or acquired) with the highest such rate;
(5) Any deferred sales load charged at the time the acquired security is redeemed is calculated as if the holder of the acquired security had held that security from the date on which he became the holder of the exchanged security,
Provided that:
(i) The time period during which the acquired security is held need not be included when the amount of the deferred sales load is calculated, if the deferred sales load is
(A) reduced by the amount of any fees collected on the acquired security under the terms of any plan of distribution adopted in accordance with rule 12b-1 under the Act (17 CFR 270.12b-1) (a “12b-1 plan”), and
(B) Solely the result of a sales load imposed on the exchanged security, and no other sales loads, including deferred sales loads, are imposed with respect to the acquired security,
(ii) The time period during which the exchanged security is held need not be included when the amount of the deferred sales load on the acquired security is calculated, if
(A) The deferred sales load is reduced by the amount of any fees previously collected on the exchanged security under the terms of any 12b-1 plan, and
(B) The exchanged security was not subject to any sales load, and
(iii) The holding periods in this subsection may be computed as of the end of the calendar month in which a security was purchased or redeemed;
(6) The prospectus of the offering company discloses
(i) The amount of any administrative or redemption fee imposed on an exchange transaction for its securities, as well as the amount of any administrative or redemption fee imposed on its securityholders to acquire the securities of other investment companies in an exchange transaction, and
(ii) If the offering company reserves the right to change the terms of or terminate an exchange offer, that the exchange offer is subject to termination and its terms are subject to change;
(7) Any sales literature or advertising that mentions the existence of the exchange offer also discloses
(i) The existence of any administrative fee or redemption fee that would be imposed at the time of an exchange; and
(ii) If the offering company reserves the right to change the terms of or terminate the exchange offer, that the exchange offer is subject to termination and its terms are subject to change;
(8) Whenever an exchange offer is to be terminated or its terms are to be amended materially, any holder of a security subject to that offer shall be given prominent notice of the impending termination or amendment at least 60 days prior to the date of termination or the effective date of the amendment,
Provided that:
(i) No such notice need be given if the only material effect of an amendment is to reduce or eliminate an administrative fee, sales load or redemption fee payable at the time of an exchange, and
(ii) No notice need be given if, under extraordinary circumstances, either
(A) There is a suspension of the redemption of the exchanged security under section 22(e) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-22(e)] and the rules and regulations thereunder, or
(B) The offering company temporarily delays or ceases the sale of the acquired security because it is unable to invest amounts effectively in accordance with applicable investment objectives, policies and restrictions; and
(9) In calculating any sales load charged with respect to the acquired security:
(i) If a securityholder exchanges less than all of his securities, the security upon which the highest sales load rate was previously paid is deemed exchanged first; and
(ii) If the exchanged security was acquired through reinvestment of dividends or capital gains distributions, that security is deemed to have been sold with a sales load rate equal to the sales load rate previously paid on the security on which the dividend was paid or distribution made.
(c) If either no sales load is imposed on the acquired security or the sales load imposed is less than the maximum allowed by paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the offering company may require the exchanging securityholder to have held the exchanged security for a minimum period of time previously established by the offering company and applied uniformly to all securityholders of the class specified.
(d) Any offering company that has previously made an offer of exchange may continue to impose fees or sales loads permitted by an order under section 11(a) of the Act upon shares purchased before the earlier of (1) One year after the effective date of this section, or (2) When the offer has been brought into compliance with the terms of this section, and upon shares acquired through reinvestment of dividends or capital gains distributions based on such shares, until such shares are redeemed.
(e) Any offering company that has previously made an offer of exchange cannot rely on this section to amend such prior offer unless
(1) The offering company's prospectus disclosed, during at least the two year period prior to the amendment of the offer (or, if the fund is less than two years old, at all times the offer has been outstanding) that the terms of the offer were subject to change, or
(2) The only effect of such change is to reduce or eliminate an administrative fee, sales load or redemption fee payable at the time of an exchange.
[54 FR 35185, Aug. 24, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 49016, Sept. 17, 1996; 70 FR 13341, Mar. 18, 2005]
§ 270.12b-1
Distribution of shares by registered open-end management investment company.
(a)(1) Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any registered open-end management investment company (other than a company complying with the provisions of section 10(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-10(d))) to act as a distributor of securities of which it is the issuer, except through an underwriter;
(2) For purposes of this section, such a company will be deemed to be acting as a distributor of securities of which it is the issuer, other than through an underwriter, if it engages directly or indirectly in financing any activity which is primarily intended to result in the sale of shares issued by such company, including, but not necessarily limited to, advertising, compensation of underwriters, dealers, and sales personnel, the printing and mailing of
prospectuses to other than current shareholders, and the printing and mailing of sales literature;
(b) A registered, open-end management investment company (“Company”) may act as a distributor of securities of which it is the issuer:
Provided,
That any payments made by such company in connection with such distribution are made pursuant to a written plan describing all material aspects of the proposed financing of distribution and that all agreements with any person relating to implementation of the plan are in writing:
And further provided,
That:
(1) Such plan has been approved by a vote of at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities of such company, if adopted after any public offering of the company's voting securities or the sale of such securities to persons who are not affiliated persons of the company, affiliated persons of such persons, promoters of the company, or affiliated persons of such promoters;
(2) Such plan, together with any related agreements, has been approved by a vote of the board of directors of such company, and of the directors who are not interested persons of the company and have no direct or indirect financial interest in the operation of the plan or in any agreements related to the plan, cast in person at a meeting called for the purpose of voting on such plan or agreements;
(3) Such plan or agreement provides, in substance:
(i) That it shall continue in effect for a period of more than one year from the date of its execution or adoption only so long as such continuance is specifically approved at least annually in the manner described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(ii) That any person authorized to direct the disposition of monies paid or payable by such company pursuant to the plan or any related agreement shall provide to the company's board of directors, and the directors shall review, at least quarterly, a written report of the amounts so expended and the purposes for which such expenditures were made; and
(iii) In the case of a plan, that it may be terminated at any time by vote of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the company who are not interested persons of the company and have no direct or indirect financial interest in the operation of the plan or in any agreements related to the plan or by vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of such company;
(iv) In the case of an agreement related to a plan:
(A) That it may be terminated at any time, without the payment of any penalty, by vote of a majority of the members of the board of directors of such company who are not interested persons of the company and have no direct or indirect financial interest in the operation of the plan or in any agreements related to the plan or by vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of such company on not more than sixty days' written notice to any other party to the agreement, and
(B) For its automatic termination in the event of its assignment;
(4) Such plan provides that it may not be amended to increase materially the amount to be spent for distribution without shareholder approval and that all material amendments of the plan must be approved in the manner described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(5) Such plan is implemented and continued in a manner consistent with the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section;
(c) A registered open-end management investment company may rely on the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section only if its board of directors satisfies the fund governance standards as defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7);
(d) In considering whether a registered open-end management investment company should implement or continue a plan in reliance on paragraph (b) of this section, the directors of such company shall have a duty to request and evaluate, and any person who is a party to any agreement with such company relating to such plan shall have a duty to furnish, such information as may reasonably be necessary to an informed determination of whether such plan should be implemented or continued; in fulfilling their
duties under this paragraph the directors should consider and give appropriate weight to all pertinent factors, and minutes describing the factors considered and the basis for the decision to use company assets for distribution must be made and preserved in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section;

# Note:
For a discussion of factors which may be relevant to a decision to use company assets for distribution, see Investment Company Act Releases Nos. 10862, September 7, 1979, and 11414, October 28, 1980.
(e) A registered open-end management investment company may implement or continue a plan pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section only if the directors who vote to approve such implementation or continuation conclude, in the exercise of reasonable business judgment and in light of their fiduciary duties under state law and under sections 36(a) and (b) (15 U.S.C. 80a-35 (a) and (b)) of the Act, that there is a reasonable likelihood that the plan will benefit the company and its shareholders;
(f) A registered open-end management investment company must preserve copies of any plan, agreement or report made pursuant to this section for a period of not less than six years from the date of such plan, agreement or report, the first two years in an easily accessible place;
(g) If a plan covers more than one series or class of shares, the provisions of the plan must be severable for each series or class, and whenever this rule provides for any action to be taken with respect to a plan, that action must be taken separately for each series or class affected by the matter. Nothing in this paragraph (g) shall affect the rights of any purchase class under § 270.18f-3(f)(2)(iii).
(h) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a company may not:
(1) Compensate a broker or dealer for any promotion or sale of shares issued by that company by directing to the broker or dealer:
(i) The company's portfolio securities transactions; or
(ii) Any remuneration, including but not limited to any commission, mark-up, mark-down, or other fee (or portion thereof) received or to be received from the company's portfolio transactions effected through any other broker (including a government securities broker) or dealer (including a municipal securities dealer or a government securities dealer); and
(2) Direct its portfolio securities transactions to a broker or dealer that promotes or sells shares issued by the company, unless the company (or its investment adviser):
(i) Is in compliance with the provisions of paragraph (h)(1) of this section with respect to that broker or dealer; and
(ii) Has implemented, and the company's board of directors (including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the company) has approved, policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent:
(A) The persons responsible for selecting brokers and dealers to effect the company's portfolio securities transactions from taking into account the brokers' and dealers' promotion or sale of shares issued by the company or any other registered investment company; and
(B) The company, and any investment adviser and principal underwriter of the company, from entering into any agreement (whether oral or written) or other understanding under which the company directs, or is expected to direct, portfolio securities transactions, or any remuneration described in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section, to a broker (including a government securities broker) or dealer (including a municipal securities dealer or a government securities dealer) in consideration for the promotion or sale of shares issued by the company or any other registered investment company.
[45 FR 73905, Nov. 7, 1980, as amended at 60 FR 11885, Mar. 2, 1995; 61 FR 49011, Sept. 17, 1996; 62 FR 51765, Oct. 3, 1997; 66 FR 3758, Jan. 16, 2001; 69 FR 46389, Aug. 2, 2004; 69 FR 54733, Sept. 9, 2004; 78 FR 79299, Dec. 30, 2013]
§ 270.12d1-1
Exemptions for investments in money market funds.
(a)
Exemptions for acquisition of money market fund shares.
If the conditions of paragraph (b) of this section are satisfied, notwithstanding sections 12(d)(1)(A), 12(d)(1)(B), 12(d)(1)(G), 17(a), and 57 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-
12(d)(1)(A), 80a-12(d)(1)(B), 80a-12(d)(1)(G), 80a-17(a), and 80a-56)) and § 270.17d-1:
(1) An investment company (
acquiring fund
) may purchase and redeem shares issued by a money market fund; and
(2) A money market fund, any principal underwriter thereof, and a broker or a dealer may sell or otherwise dispose of shares issued by the money market fund to any acquiring fund.
(b) Conditions—(1)
Fees.
The acquiring fund pays no sales charge, as defined in FINRA Rule 2341(b)(8) (“sales charge”), or service fee, as defined in FINRA Rule 2341(b)(9), charged in connection with the purchase, sale, or redemption of securities issued by a money market fund (“service fee”); or the acquiring fund's investment adviser waives its advisory fee in an amount necessary to offset any sales charge or service fee.
(2)
Unregistered money market funds.
If the money market fund is not an investment company registered under the Act:
(i) The acquiring fund reasonably believes that the money market fund satisfies the following conditions as if it were a registered open-end investment company:
(A) Operates in compliance with § 270.2a-7;
(B) Complies with sections 17(a), (d), (e), 18, and 22(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a), (d), (e), 80a-18, and 80a-22(e));
(C) Has adopted procedures designed to ensure that it complies with sections 17(a), (d), (e), 18, and 22(e) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a), (d), (e), 80a-18, and 80a-22(e)), periodically reviews and updates those procedures, and maintains books and records describing those procedures;
(D) Maintains the records required by §§ 270.31a-1(b)(1), 270.31a-1(b)(2)(ii), 270.31a-1(b)(2)(iv), and 270.31a-1(b)(9); and
(E) Preserves permanently, the first two years in an easily accessible place, all books and records required to be made under paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(C) and (D) of this section, and makes those records available for examination on request by the Commission or its staff; and
(ii) The adviser to the money market fund is registered with the Commission as an investment adviser under section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3).
(c)
Exemption from certain monitoring and recordkeeping requirements under § 270.17e-1.
Notwithstanding the requirements of §§ 270.17e-1(b)(3) and 270.17e-1(d)(2), the payment of a commission, fee, or other remuneration to a broker shall be deemed as not exceeding the usual and customary broker's commission for purposes of section 17(e)(2)(A) of the Act if:
(1) The commission, fee, or other remuneration is paid in connection with the sale of securities to or by an acquiring fund;
(2) The broker and the acquiring fund are affiliated persons because each is an affiliated person of the same money market fund; and
(3) The acquiring fund is an affiliated person of the money market fund solely because the acquiring fund owns, controls, or holds with power to vote five percent or more of the outstanding securities of the money market fund.
(d)
Definitions.
(1)
Investment company
includes a company that would be an investment company under section 3(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) but for the exceptions to that definition provided for in sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) and 80a-3(c)(7)).
(2)
Money market fund
means:
(i) An open-end management investment company registered under the Act that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7; or
(ii) A company that would be an investment company under section 3(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) but for the exceptions to that definition provided for in sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) and 80a-3(c)(7)) and that:
(A) Is limited to investing in the types of securities and other investments in which a money market fund may invest under § 270.2a-7; and
(B) Undertakes to comply with all the other requirements of § 270.2a-7, except that, if the company has no board of directors, the company's investment
adviser performs the duties of the board of directors.
[71 FR 36655, June 27, 2006, as amended at 85 FR 74005, Nov. 19, 2020; 88 FR 37987, June 12, 2023]
§ 270.12d1-2
[Reserved]
§ 270.12d1-3
Exemptions for investment companies relying on section 12(d)(1)(F) of the Act.
(a)
Exemption from sales charge limits.
A registered investment company (“acquiring fund”) that relies on section 12(d)(1)(F) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(F)) to acquire securities issued by an investment company (“acquired fund”) may offer or sell any security it issues through a principal underwriter or otherwise at a public offering price that includes a sales load of more than 1
1/2
percent if any sales charges and service fees charged with respect to the acquiring fund's securities do not exceed the limits set forth in FINRA Rule 2341 applicable to a fund of funds.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the terms
fund of funds,
sales charge, and
service fee
have the same meanings as in FINRA Rule 2341(b).
[71 FR 36655, June 27, 2006, as amended at 88 FR 37987, June 12, 2023]
§ 270.12d1-4
Exemptions for investments in certain investment companies.
(a)
Exemptions for acquisition and sale of acquired fund shares.
If the conditions of paragraph (b) of this section are satisfied, notwithstanding sections 12(d)(1)(A), 12(d)(1)(B), 12(d)(1)(C), 17(a), 57(a)(1)-(2), and 57(d)(1)-(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(A), 80a-12(d)(1)(C), 80a-17(a), 80a-56(a)(1)-(2), and 80a-56(d)(1)-(2)):
(1) A registered investment company (other than a face-amount certificate company) or business development company (an
acquiring fund
) may purchase or otherwise acquire the securities issued by another registered investment company (other than a face-amount certificate company) or business development company (an
acquired fund
);
(2) An acquired fund, any principal underwriter thereof, and any broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 may sell or otherwise dispose of the securities issued by the acquired fund to any acquiring fund and any acquired fund may redeem or repurchase any securities issued by the acquired fund from any acquiring fund; and
(3) An acquiring fund that is an affiliated person of an exchange-traded fund (or who is an affiliated person of such a fund) solely by reason of the circumstances described in § 270.6c-11(b)(3)(i) and (ii), may deposit and receive the exchange-traded fund's baskets, provided that the acquired exchange-traded fund is not otherwise an affiliated person (or affiliated person of an affiliated person) of the acquiring fund.
(b)
Conditions
—(1)
Control.
(i) The acquiring fund and its advisory group will not control (individually or in the aggregate) an acquired fund;
(ii) If the acquiring fund and its advisory group, in the aggregate,
(A) Hold more than 25% of the outstanding voting securities of an acquired fund that is a registered open-end management investment company or registered unit investment trust as a result of a decrease in the outstanding voting securities of the acquired fund, or
(B) Hold more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of an acquired fund that is a registered closed-end management investment company or business development company, each of those holders will vote its securities in the same proportion as the vote of all other holders of such securities; provided, however, that in circumstances where all holders of the outstanding voting securities of the acquired fund are required by this section or otherwise under section 12(d)(1) to vote securities of the acquired fund in the same proportion as the vote of all other holders of such securities, the acquiring fund will seek instructions from its security holders with regard to the voting of all proxies with respect to such acquired fund securities and vote such proxies only in accordance with such instructions; and
(iii) The conditions in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section do not apply if:
(A) The acquiring fund is in the same group of investment companies as an acquired fund; or
(B) The acquiring fund's investment sub-adviser or any person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such investment sub-adviser acts as an acquired fund's investment adviser or depositor.
(2)
Findings and agreements.
(i) Management companies.
(A) If the acquiring fund is a management company, prior to the initial acquisition of an acquired fund in excess of the limits in section 12(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(A)(i)), the acquiring fund's investment adviser must evaluate the complexity of the structure and fees and expenses associated with the acquiring fund's investment in the acquired fund, and find that the acquiring fund's fees and expenses do not duplicate the fees and expenses of the acquired fund;
(B) If the acquired fund is a management company, prior to the initial acquisition of an acquired fund in excess of the limits in section 12(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(A)(i)), the acquired fund's investment adviser must find that any undue influence concerns associated with the acquiring fund's investment in the acquired fund are reasonably addressed and, as part of this finding, the investment adviser must consider at a minimum the following items:
(
1
) The scale of contemplated investments by the acquiring fund and any maximum investment limits;
(
2
) The anticipated timing of redemption requests by the acquiring fund;
(
3
) Whether and under what circumstances the acquiring fund will provide advance notification of investments and redemptions; and
(
4
) The circumstances under which the acquired fund may elect to satisfy redemption requests in kind rather than in cash and the terms of any such redemptions in kind; and
(C) The investment adviser to each acquiring or acquired management company must report its evaluation, finding, and the basis for its evaluations or findings required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, as applicable, to the fund's board of directors, no later than the next regularly scheduled board of directors meeting.
(ii) Unit investment trusts. If the acquiring fund is a unit investment trust (
UIT
) and the date of initial deposit of portfolio securities into the UIT occurs after the effective date of this section, the UIT's principal underwriter or depositor must evaluate the complexity of the structure associated with the UIT's investment in acquired funds and, on or before such date of initial deposit, find that the UIT's fees and expenses do not duplicate the fees and expenses of the acquired funds that the UIT holds or will hold at the date of deposit.
(iii) Separate accounts funding variable insurance contracts. With respect to a separate account funding variable insurance contracts that invests in an acquiring fund, the acquiring fund must obtain a certification from the insurance company offering the separate account that the insurance company has determined that the fees and expenses borne by the separate account, acquiring fund, and acquired fund, in the aggregate, are consistent with the standard set forth in section 26(f)(2)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-26(f)(2)(A)).
(iv) Fund of funds investment agreement. Unless the acquiring fund's investment adviser acts as the acquired fund's investment adviser and such adviser is not acting as the sub-adviser to either fund, the acquiring fund must enter into an agreement with the acquired fund effective for the duration of the funds' reliance on this section, which must include the following:
(A) Any material terms regarding the acquiring fund's investment in the acquired fund necessary to make the finding required under paragraph (b)(2)(i) through (ii) of this section;
(B) A termination provision whereby either the acquiring fund or acquired fund may terminate the agreement subject to advance written notice no longer than 60 days; and
(C) A requirement that the acquired fund provide the acquiring fund with information on the fees and expenses of the acquired fund reasonably requested by the acquiring fund.
(3)
Complex fund structures.
(i) No investment company may rely on section
12(d)(1)(G) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(G)) or this section to purchase or otherwise acquire, in excess of the limits in section 12(d)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(A)), the outstanding voting securities of an investment company (a
second-tier fund
) that relies on this section to acquire the securities of an acquired fund, unless the second-tier fund makes investments permitted by paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section; and
(ii) No acquired fund may purchase or otherwise acquire the securities of an investment company or private fund if immediately after such purchase or acquisition, the securities of investment companies and private funds owned by the acquired fund have an aggregate value in excess of 10 percent of the value of the total assets of the acquired fund; provided, however, that the 10 percent limitation of this paragraph shall not apply to investments by the acquired fund in:
(A) Reliance on section 12(d)(1)(E) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(1)(E));
(B) Reliance on § 270.12d1-1;
(C) A subsidiary that is wholly-owned and controlled by the acquired fund;
(D) Securities received as a dividend or as a result of a plan of reorganization of a company; or
(E) Securities of another investment company received pursuant to exemptive relief from the Commission to engage in interfund borrowing and lending transactions.
(c)
Recordkeeping.
The acquiring and acquired funds relying upon this section must maintain and preserve for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, as applicable:
(1) A copy of each fund of funds investment agreement that is in effect, or at any time within the past five years was in effect, and any amendments thereto;
(2) A written record of the evaluations and findings required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and the basis therefor within the past five years;
(3) A written record of the finding required by paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section and the basis for such finding; and
(4) The certification from each insurance company required by paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(d)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Advisory group
means either:
(1) An acquiring fund's investment adviser or depositor, and any person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such investment adviser or depositor; or
(2) An acquiring fund's investment sub-adviser and any person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such investment sub-adviser.
Baskets
has the same meaning as in 17 CFR 270.6c-11(a)(1).
Exchange-traded fund
means a fund or class, the shares of which are listed and traded on a national securities exchange, and that has formed and operates in reliance on § 6c-11 or under an exemptive order granted by the Commission.
Group of investment companies
means any two or more registered investment companies or business development companies that hold themselves out to investors as related companies for purposes of investment and investor services.
Private fund
means an issuer that would be an investment company under section 3(a) of the Act but for the exclusions from that definition provided for in section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) or 80a-3(c)(7)).
[85 FR 74005, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 270.12d2-1
Definition of insurance company for purposes of sections 12(d)(2) and 12(g) of the Act.
For purposes of sections 12(d)(2) and 12(g) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-12(d)(2) and 80a-12(g)],
insurance company
shall include a foreign insurance company as that term is used in rule 3a-6 under the Act (17 CFR 270.3a-6).
[56 FR 56300, Nov. 4, 1991]
§ 270.12d3-1
Exemption of acquisitions of securities issued by persons engaged in securities related businesses.
(a) Notwithstanding section 12(d)(3) of the Act, a registered investment
company, or any company or companies controlled by such registered investment company (“acquiring company”) may acquire any security issued by any person that, in its most recent fiscal year, derived 15 percent or less of its gross revenues from securities related activities unless the acquiring company would control such person after the acquisition.
(b) Notwithstanding section 12(d)(3) of the Act, an acquiring company may acquire any security issued by a person that, in its most recent fiscal year, derived more than 15 percent of its gross revenues from securities related activities,
provided that:
(1) Immediately after the acquisition of any equity security, the acquiring company owns not more than five percent of the outstanding securities of that class of the issuer's equity securities;
(2) Immediately after the acquisition of any debt security, the acquiring company owns not more than ten percent of the outstanding principal amount of the issuer's debt securities; and
(3) Immediately after any such acquisition, the acquiring company has invested not more than five percent of the value of its total assets in the securities of the issuer.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, this section does not exempt the acquisition of:
(1) A general partnership interest; or
(2) A security issued by the acquiring company's promoter, principal underwriter, or any affiliated person of such promoter, or principal underwriter; or
(3) A security issued by the acquiring company's investment adviser, or an affiliated person of the acquiring company's investment adviser, other than a security issued by a subadviser or an affiliated person of a subadviser of the acquiring company provided that:
(i)
Prohibited relationships.
The subadviser that is (or whose affiliated person is) the issuer is not, and is not an affiliated person of, an investment adviser responsible for providing advice with respect to the portion of the acquiring company that is acquiring the securities, or of any promoter, underwriter, officer, director, member of an advisory board, or employee of the acquiring company;
(ii)
Advisory contract.
The advisory contracts of the Subadviser that is (or whose affiliated person is) the issuer, and any Subadviser that is advising the portion of the acquiring company that is purchasing the securities:
(A) Prohibit them from consulting with each other concerning transactions of the acquiring company in securities or other assets, other than for purposes of complying with the conditions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section; and
(B) Limit their responsibility in providing advice to providing advice with respect to a discrete portion of the acquiring company's portfolio.
(d) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Securities related activities
are a person's activities as a broker, a dealer, an underwriter, an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, or as an investment adviser to a registered investment company.
(2) An issuer's gross revenues from its own securities related activities and from its ratable share of the securities related activities of enterprises of which it owns 20 percent or more of the voting or equity interest should be considered in determining the degree to which an issuer is engaged in securities related activities. Such information may be obtained from the issuer's annual report to shareholders, the issuer's annual reports or registration statement filed with the Commission, or the issuer's chief financial officer.
(3)
Equity security
is as defined in § 240.3a-11 of this chapter.
(4)
Debt security
includes all securities other than equity securities.
(5) Determination of the percentage of an acquiring company's ownership of any class of outstanding equity securities of an issuer shall be made in accordance with the procedures described in the rules under § 240.16 of this chapter.
(6) Where an acquiring company is considering acquiring or has acquired options, warrants, rights, or convertible securities of a securities related business, the determination required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be made as though such options, warrants,
rights, or conversion privileges had been exercised.
(7) The following transactions will not be deemed to be an acquisition of securities of a securities related business:
(i) Receipt of stock dividends on securities acquired in compliance with this section;
(ii) Receipt of securities arising from a stock-for-stock split on securities acquired in compliance with this section;
(iii) Exercise of options, warrants, or rights acquired in compliance with this section;
(iv) Conversion of convertible securities acquired in compliance with this section; and
(v) Acquisition of Demand Features or Guarantees, as these terms are defined in §§ 270.2a-7(a)(9) and 270.2a-7(a)(16) respectively, provided that, immediately after the acquisition of any Demand Feature or Guarantee, the company will not, with respect to 75 percent of the total value of its assets, have invested more than ten percent of the total value of its assets in securities underlying Demand Features or Guarantees from the same institution. For the purposes of this section, a Demand Feature or Guarantee will be considered to be from the party to whom the company will look for a payment of the exercise price.
(8) Any class or series of an investment company that issues two or more classes or series of preferred or special stock, each of which is preferred over all other classes or series with respect to assets specifically allocated to that class or series, shall be treated as if it is a registered investment company.
(9)
Subadviser
means an investment adviser as defined in section 2(a)(20)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(20)(B)).
[58 FR 49427, Sept. 23, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 13982, Mar. 28, 1996; 62 FR 64986, Dec. 9, 1997; 66 FR 36162, July 11, 2001; 68 FR 3152, Jan. 22, 2003; 79 FR 47967, Aug. 14, 2014; 80 FR 58155, Sept. 25, 2015]
§ 270.13a-1
Exemption for change of status by temporarily diversified company.
A change of its subclassification by a registered management company from that of a diversified company to that of a nondiversified company shall be exempt from the provisions of section 13(a)(1) of the Act (54 Stat. 811; 15 U.S.C. 80a-13), if such change occurs under the following circumstances:
(a) Such company was a nondiversified company at the time of its registration pursuant to section 8(a) (54 Stat. 803; 15 U.S.C. 80a-8), or thereafter legally became a nondiversified company.
(b) After its registration and within 3 years prior to such change, such company became a diversified company.
(c) At the time such company became a diversified company, its registration statement filed pursuant to section 8(b) (54 Stat. 803; 15 U.S.C. 80a-8), as supplemented and modified by any amendments and reports theretofore filed, did not stated that the registrant proposed to become a diversified company.
[Rule N-13A-1, 6 FR 3967, Aug. 8, 1941]
§ 270.14a-1
Use of notification pursuant to regulation E under the Securities Act of 1933.
For the purposes of section 14(a)(3) of the Act, registration of securities under the Securities Act of 1933 by a small business investment company operating under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 shall be deemed to include the filing of a notification under Rule 604 of Regulation E promulgated under said Act if provision is made in connection with such notification which in the opinion of the Commission adequately insures (a) that after the effective date of such notification such company will not issue any security or receive any proceeds of any subscription for any security until firm agreements have been made with such company by not more than twenty-five responsible persons to purchase from it securities to be issued by it for an aggregate net amount which plus the then net worth of the company, if any, will equal at least $100,000; (b) that said aggregate net amount will be paid into such company before any subscriptions for such securities will be accepted from any persons in excess of twenty-five; (c) that arrangements will be made whereby any proceeds so paid in, as well as any sales load, will be refunded to any subscriber on demand without any deduction, in the event that the net proceeds so received by
the company do not result in the company having a net worth of at least $100,000 within ninety days after such notification becomes effective.
[25 FR 3512, Apr. 22, 1960]
§ 270.14a-2
Exemption from section 14(a) of the Act for certain registered separate accounts and their principal underwriters.
(a) A registered separate account, and any principal underwriter for such account, shall be exempt from section 14(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-14(a)) with respect to a public offering of variable annuity contracts participating in such account.
(b) Any registered management investment company which has as a promoter an insurance company and which offers its securities to separate accounts of such insurance company that offer variable annuity contracts and are registered under the Act as unit investment trusts (“trust accounts”), and any principal underwriter for such investment company, shall be exempt from section 14(a) with respect to such offering and to the offering of such securities to trust accounts of other insurance companies.
(c) Any registered management investment company exempt from section 14(a) of the Act pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be exempt from sections 15(a), 16(a), and 32(a)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(a), 80a-16(a), and 80a-31(a)(2)), to the extent prescribed in §§ 270.15a-3, 270.16a-1, and 270.32a-2 (Rules 15a-3, 16a-1, and 32a-2 under the Act), provided that such investment company complies with the conditions set forth in Rules 15a-3, 16a-1, and 32a-2 as if it were a separate account.
[85 FR 26109, May 1, 2020]
§ 270.14a-3
Exemption from section 14(a) of the Act for certain registered unit investment trusts and their principal underwriters.
(a) A registered unit investment trust (hereinafter referred to as the “Trust”) engaged exclusively in the business of investing in eligible trust securities, and any principal underwriter for the Trust, shall be exempt from section 14(a) of the Act with respect to a public offering of Trust units:
Provided,
That:
(1) At the commencement of such offering the Trust holds at least $100,000 principal amount of eligible trust securities (or delivery statements relating to contracts for the purchase of any such securities which, together with cash or an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank in the amount required for their purchase, are held by the Trust for purchase of the securities);
(2) If, within ninety days from the time that the Trust's registration statement has become effective under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) the net worth of the Trust declines to less than $100,000 or the Trust is terminated, the sponsor for the Trust shall—
(i) Refund, on demand and without deduction, all sales charges to any unitholders who purchased Trust units from the sponsor (or from any underwriter or dealer participating in the distribution), and
(ii) Liquidate the eligible trust securities held by the Trust and distribute the proceeds thereof to the unitholders of the Trust;
(3) The sponsor instructs the trustee when the eligible trust securities are deposited in the Trust that, in the event that redemptions by the sponsor or any underwriter of units constituting a part of the unsold units results in the Trust having a net worth of less than 40 percent of the principal amount of the eligible trust securities (or delivery statements relating to contracts for the purchase of any such securities which, together with cash or an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank in the amount required for their purchase, are held by the Trust for purchase of the securities) initially deposited in the Trust—
(i) The trustee shall terminate the Trust and distribute the assets thereof to the unitholders of the Trust, and
(ii) The sponsor for the Trust shall refund, on demand and without deduction, all sales charges to any unitholder who purchased Trust units from the sponsor or from any underwriter or dealer participating in the distribution.
(b) For the purposes of determining the availability of the exemption provided by the foregoing subsection, the term “eligible trust securities” shall mean:
(1) Securities (other than convertible securities) which are issued by a corporation and which have their interest or dividend rate fixed at the time they are issued;
(2) Interest bearing obligations issued by a state, or by any agency, instrumentality, authority or political subdivision thereof;
(3) Government securities; and
(4) Units of a previously issued series of the Trust:
Provided,
That:
(i) The aggregate principal amount of units of existing series so deposited shall not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the portfolio of the new series;
(ii) The aggregate principal amount of units of any particular existing series so deposited shall not exceed 5% of the aggregate principal amount of the portfolio of the new series;
(iii) No units shall be so deposited which do not substantially meet investment quality criteria at least as high as those applicable to the new series in which such units are deposited;
(iv) The value of the eligible trust securities underlying units of an existing series deposited in a new series shall not, by reason of maturity of such securities according to their terms within ten years following the date of deposit, be reduced sufficiently for such existing series to be voluntarily terminated;
(v) Units of existing series so deposited shall constitute units purchased by the sponsor as market maker and not remaining unsold units from the original distribution of such units; and
(vi) The sponsor shall deposit units of existing series in the new series without a sales charge.
(Secs. 6(c) and 38(a) (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c) and 15 U.S.C. 80a-37(a)))
[44 FR 29646, May 22, 1979; 44 FR 40064, July 9, 1979]
§ 270.15a-1
Exemption from stockholders' approval of certain small investment advisory contracts.
An investment adviser of a registered investment company shall be exempt from the requirement of sections 15(a) and 15(e) of the Act (54 Stat. 812; 15 U.S.C. 80a-15) that the written contract pursuant to which he acts shall have been approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding votingsecurities of such company, if the following conditions are met:
(a) Such investment adviser is not an affiliated person of such company (except as investment adviser) nor of any principal underwriter for such company.
(b) His compensation as investment adviser of such company in any fiscal year of the company during which any such contract is in effect either (1) is not more than $100 or (2) is not more than $2,500 and not more than
1/40
of 1 percent of the value of the company's net assets averaged over the year or taken as of a definite date or dates within the year.
(c) The aggregate compensation of all investment advisers of such company exempted pursuant to this section in any fiscal year of the company either (1) is not more than $200 or (2) is not more than
1/20
of 1 percent of the value of the company's net assets averaged over the year or taken as of a definite date or dates within the year.
[Rule N-15A-1, 6 FR 2275, Jan. 8, 1944]
§ 270.15a-2
Annual continuance of contracts.
(a) For purposes of sections 15(a) and 15(b) of the Act, the continuance of a contract for a period more than two years after the date of its execution shall be deemed to have been specifically approved at least annually by the board of directors or by a vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of a registered investment company if such approval occurs:
(1) With respect to the first continuance of a contract, during the 90 days prior to and including the earlier of (i) the date specified in such contract for its termination in the absence of such approval, or (ii) the second anniversary of the date upon which such contract was executed; or
(2) With respect to any subsequent continuance of a contract, during the 90 days prior to and including the first anniversary of the date upon which the
most recent previous annual continuance of such contract became effective.
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to any continuance of a contract which shall have been approved not later than 90 days after the date of adoption of this section, provided that such contract shall expire, by its terms, not later than 17 months from the date of adoption of this section.

# Note:
This section does not establish the exclusive method of complying with the Act. It provides one procedure by which a registered investment company may comply with the applicable provisions of sections 15(a) and 15(b) of the Act; it does not preclude any other appropriate procedure. Any annual continuance of a contract approved in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of § 270.15a-2 will constitute a renewal of such contract for the purposes of section 15(c) of the Act, and therefore such renewal must be approved by the disinterested directors within the times specified in the section for a continuance.
[41 FR 41911, Sept. 24, 1976]
§ 270.15a-3
Exemption for initial period of investment adviser of certain registered separate accounts from requirement of security holder approval of investment advisory contract.
(a) An investment adviser of a registered separate account shall be exempt from the requirement under section 15(a) of the Act that the initial written contract pursuant to which the investment adviser serves or acts shall have been approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of such registered separate account, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Such registered separate account qualifies for exemption from section 14(a) of the Act pursuant to § 270.14a-2, or is exempt therefrom by order of the Commission upon application; and
(2) Such written contract shall be submitted to a vote of variable annuity contract owners at their first meeting after the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) relating to variable annuity contracts participating in such account:
Provided,
That such meeting shall take place within 1 year after such effective date, unless the time for the holding of such meeting shall be extended by the Commission upon written request showing good cause therefor.
(Sec. 6, 54 Stat. 800; 15 U.S.C. 80a-6)
[34 FR 12695, Aug. 5, 1969]
§ 270.15a-4
Temporary exemption for certain investment advisers.
(a) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Fund
means an investment company, and includes a separate series of the company.
(2)
Interim contract
means a written investment advisory contract:
(i) That has not been approved by a majority of the fund's outstanding voting securities; and
(ii) That has a duration no greater than 150 days following the date on which the previous contract terminates.
(3)
Previous contract
means an investment advisory contract that has been approved by a majority of the fund's outstanding voting securities and has been terminated.
(b) Notwithstanding section 15(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(a)), a person may act as investment adviser for a fund under an interim contract after the termination of a previous contract as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section:
(1) In the case of a previous contract terminated by an event described in section 15(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-15(a)(3)), by the failure to renew the previous contract, or by an assignment (other than an assignment by an investment adviser or a controlling person of the investment adviser in connection with which assignment the investment adviser or a controlling person directly or indirectly receives money or other benefit):
(i) The compensation to be received under the interim contract is no greater than the compensation the adviser would have received under the previous contract; and
(ii) The fund's board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund, has approved the interim contract within 10 business days after the termination, at a meeting in which directors may participate by any means of communication that allows all directors
participating to hear each other simultaneously during the meeting.
(2) In the case of a previous contract terminated by an assignment by an investment adviser or a controlling person of the investment adviser in connection with which assignment the investment adviser or a controlling person directly or indirectly receives money or other benefit:
(i) The compensation to be received under the interim contract is no greater than the compensation the adviser would have received under the previous contract;
(ii) The board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund, has voted in person to approve the interim contract before the previous contract is terminated;
(iii) The board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund, determines that the scope and quality of services to be provided to the fund under the interim contract will be at least equivalent to the scope and quality of services provided under the previous contract;
(iv) The interim contract provides that the fund's board of directors or a majority of the fund's outstanding voting securities may terminate the contract at any time, without the payment of any penalty, on not more than 10 calendar days' written notice to the investment adviser;
(v) The interim contract contains the same terms and conditions as the previous contract, with the exception of its effective and termination dates, provisions governed by paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(iv), and (b)(2)(vi) of this section, and any other differences in terms and conditions that the board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund, finds to be immaterial;
(vi) The interim contract contains the following provisions:
(A) The compensation earned under the contract will be held in an interest-bearing escrow account with the fund's custodian or a bank;
(B) If a majority of the fund's outstanding voting securities approve a contract with the investment adviser by the end of the 150-day period, the amount in the escrow account (including interest earned) will be paid to the investment adviser; and
(C) If a majority of the fund's outstanding voting securities do not approve a contract with the investment adviser, the investment adviser will be paid, out of the escrow account, the lesser of:
(
1
) Any costs incurred in performing the interim contract (plus interest earned on that amount while in escrow); or
(
2
) The total amount in the escrow account (plus interest earned); and
(vii) The board of directors of the investment company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7).
[64 FR 68023, Dec. 6, 1999, as amended 66 FR 3758, Jan. 16, 2001; 69 FR 46389, Aug. 2, 2004]
§ 270.16a-1
Exemption for initial period of directors of certain registered accounts from requirements of election by security holders.
(a) Persons serving as the directors of a registered separate account shall, prior to the first meeting of such account's variable annuity contract owners, be exempt from the requirement of section 16(a) of the Act that such persons be elected by the holders of outstanding voting securities of such account at an annual or special meeting called for that purpose, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Such registered separate account qualifies for exemption from section 14(a) of the Act pursuant to § 270.14a-1 or is exempt therefrom by order of the Commission upon application; and
(2) Such persons have been appointed directors of such account by the establishing insurance company; and
(3) An election of directors for such account shall be held at the first meeting of variable annuity contract owners after the effective date of the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
), relating to contracts participating in such account:
Provided,
That such meeting shall take place within 1 year after such effective date, unless the time for the holding of such
meeting shall be extended by the Commission upon written request showing good cause therefor.
(Sec. 6, 54 Stat. 800; 15 U.S.C. 80a-6)
[34 FR 12695, Aug. 5, 1969]
§ 270.17a-1
Exemption of certain underwriting transactions exempted by § 270.10f-1.
Any transaction exempted pursuant to § 270.10f-1 shall be exempt from the provisions of section 17(a)(1) of the Act (54 Stat. 815; 15 U.S.C. 80a-17).
[Rule N-17A-1, 6 FR 1191, Feb. 28, 1941]
§ 270.17a-2
Exemption of certain purchase, sale, or borrowing transactions.
Purchase, sale or borrowing transactions occurring in the usual course of business between affiliated persons of registered investment companies shall be exempt from section 17(a) of the Act provided (a) the transactions involve notes, drafts, time payment contracts, bills of exchange, acceptance or other property of a commercial character rather than of an investment character; (b) the buyer or lender is a bank; and (c) the seller or borrower is a bank or is engaged principally in the business of installment financing.
[Rule N-17A-2, 12 FR 5008, July 29, 1947]
§ 270.17a-3
Exemption of transactions with fully owned subsidiaries.
(a) The following transactions shall be exempt from section 17(a) of the Act:
(1) Transactions solely between a registered investment company and one or more of its fully owned subsidiaries or solely between two or more fully owned subsidiaries of such company.
(2) Transactions solely between any subsidiary of a registered investment company and one or more fully owned subsidiaries of such subsidiary or solely between two or more fully owned subsidiaries of such subsidiary.
(b) The term
fully owned subsidiary
as used in this section, means a subsidiary (1) all of whose outstanding securities, other than directors' qualifying shares, are owned by its parent and/or the parent's other fully owned subsidiaries, and (2) which is not indebted to any person other than its parent and/or the parent's other fully owned subsidiaries in an amount which is material in relation to the particular subsidiary, excepting (i) indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business which is not overdue and which matures within one year from the date of its creation, whether evidenced by securities or not, and (ii) any other indebtedness to one or more banks or insurance companies.
[Rule N-17A-3, 12 FR 3442, May 28, 1947]
§ 270.17a-4
Exemption of transactions pursuant to certain contracts.
Transactions pursuant to a contract shall be exempt from section 17(a) of the Act if at the time of the making of the contract and for a period of at least six months prior thereto no affiliation or other relationship existed which would operate to make such contract or the subsequent performance thereof subject to the provisions of said section 17(a).
[Rule N-17A-4, 12 FR 5008, July 29, 1947]
§ 270.17a-5
Pro rata distribution neither “sale” nor “purchase.”
When a company makes a pro rata distribution in cash or in kind among its common stockholders without giving any election to any stockholder as to the specific assets which such stockholders shall receive, such distribution shall not be deemed to involve a sale to or a purchase from such distributing company as those terms are used in section 17(a) of the Act.
[20 FR 7447, Oct. 6, 1955]
§ 270.17a-6
Exemption for transactions with portfolio affiliates.
(a)
Exemption for transactions with portfolio affiliates.
A transaction to which a fund, or a company controlled by a fund, and a portfolio affiliate of the fund are parties is exempt from the provisions of section 17(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a)), provided that none of the following persons is a party to the transaction, or has a direct or indirect financial interest in a party to the transaction other than the fund:
(1) An officer, director, employee, investment adviser, member of an advisory board, depositor, promoter of or principal underwriter for the fund;
(2) A person directly or indirectly controlling the fund;
(3) A person directly or indirectly owning, controlling or holding with power to vote five percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of the fund;
(4) A person directly or indirectly under common control with the fund, other than:
(i) A portfolio affiliate of the fund; or
(ii) A fund whose sole interest in the transaction or a party to the transaction is an interest in the portfolio affiliate; or
(5) An affiliated person of any of the persons mentioned in paragraphs (a)(1)-(4) of this section, other than the fund or a portfolio affiliate of the fund.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Financial interest.
(i) The term
financial interest
as used in this section does not include:
(A) Any interest through ownership of securities issued by the fund;
(B) Any interest of a wholly-owned subsidiary of a fund;
(C) Usual and ordinary fees for services as a director;
(D) An interest of a non-executive employee;
(E) An interest of an insurance company arising from a loan or policy made or issued by it in the ordinary course of business to a natural person;
(F) An interest of a bank arising from a loan or account made or maintained by it in the ordinary course of business to or with a natural person, unless it arises from a loan to a person who is an officer, director or executive of a company which is a party to the transaction, or from a loan to a person who directly or indirectly owns, controls, or holds with power to vote, five percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of a company which is a party to the transaction;
(G) An interest acquired in a transaction described in paragraph (d)(3) of § 270.17d-1; or
(H) Any other interest that the board of directors of the fund, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the fund, finds to be not material, provided that the directors record the basis for that finding in the minutes of their meeting.
(ii) A person has a financial interest in any party in which it has a financial interest, in which it had a financial interest within six months prior to the transaction, or in which it will acquire a financial interest pursuant to an arrangement in existence at the time of the transaction.
(2)
Fund
means a registered investment company or separate series of a registered investment company.
(3)
Portfolio affiliate of a fund
means a person that is an affiliated person (or an affiliated person of an affiliated person) of a fund solely because the fund, a fund under common control with the fund, or both:
(i) Controls such person (or an affiliated person of such person); or
(ii) Owns, controls, or holds with power to vote five percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of such person (or an affiliated person of such person).
[68 FR 3153, Jan. 22, 2003]
§ 270.17a-7
Exemption of certain purchase or sale transactions between an investment company and certain affiliated persons thereof.
A purchase or sale transaction between registered investment companies or separate series of registered investment companies, which are affiliated persons, or affiliated persons of affiliated persons, of each other, between separate series of a registered investment company, or between a registered investment company or a separate series of a registered investment company and a person which is an affiliated person of such registered investment company (or affiliated person of such person) solely by reason of having a common investment adviser or investment advisers which are affiliated persons of each other, common directors, and/or common officers, is exempt from section 17(a) of the Act;
Provided,
That:
(a) The transaction is a purchase or sale, for no consideration other than cash payment against prompt delivery of a security for which market quotations are readily available;
(b) The transaction is effected at the independent current market price of the security. For purposes of this paragraph the “current market price” shall be:
(1) If the security is an “NMS stock” as that term is defined in 17 CFR 242.600, the last sale price with respect to such security reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system (“consolidated system”) or the average of the highest current independent bid and lowest current independent offer for such security (reported pursuant to 17 CFR 242.602) if there are no reported transactions in the consolidated system that day; or
(2) If the security is not a reported security, and the principal market for such security is an exchange, then the last sale on such exchange or the average of the highest current independent bid and lowest current independent offer on such exchange if there are no reported transactions on such exchange that day; or
(3) If the security is not a reported security and is quoted in the NASDAQ System, then the average of the highest current independent bid and lowest current independent offer reported on Level 1 of NASDAQ; or
(4) For all other securities, the average of the highest current independent bid and lowest current independent offer determined on the basis of reasonable inquiry;
(c) The transaction is consistent with the policy of each registered investment company and separate series of a registered investment company participating in the transaction, as recited in its registration statement and reports filed under the Act;
(d) No brokerage commission, fee (except for customary transfer fees), or other remuneration is paid in connection with the transaction;
(e) The board of directors of the investment company, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of such investment company,
(1) Adopts procedures pursuant to which such purchase or sale transactions may be effected for the company, which are reasonably designed to provide that all of the conditions of this section in paragraphs (a) through (d) have been complied with,
(2) Makes and approves such changes as the board deems necessary, and
(3) Determines no less frequently than quarterly that all such purchases or sales made during the preceding quarter were effected in compliance with such procedures;
(f) The board of directors of the investment company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7); and
(g) The investment company (1) maintains and preserves permanently in an easily accessible place a written copy of the procedures (and any modifications thereto) described in paragraph (e) of this section, and (2) maintains and preserves for a period not less than six years from the end of the fiscal year in which any transactions occurred, the first two years in an easily accessible place, a written record of each such transaction setting forth a description of the security purchased or sold, the identity of the person on the other side of the transaction, the terms of the purchase or sale transaction, and the information or materials upon which the determinations described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section were made.
[46 FR 17013, Mar. 17, 1981, as amended at 58 FR 49921, Sept. 24, 1993; 66 FR 3758, Jan. 16, 2001; 69 FR 46389, Aug. 2, 2004; 70 FR 37632, June 29, 2005]
§ 270.17a-8
Mergers of affiliated companies.
(a)
Exemption of affiliated mergers.
A Merger of a registered investment company (or a series thereof) and one or more other registered investment companies (or series thereof) or Eligible Unregistered Funds is exempt from sections 17(a)(1) and (2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a)(1)-(2)) if:
(1)
Surviving company.
The Surviving Company is a registered investment company (or a series thereof).
(2)
Board determinations.
As to any registered investment company (or series thereof) participating in the Merger (“Merging Company”):
(i) The board of directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the Merging Company or of any other company or series participating in the Merger, determines that:
(A) Participation in the Merger is in the best interests of the Merging Company; and
(B) The interests of the Merging Company's existing shareholders will not be diluted as a result of the Merger.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(2)(
i

# ):
For a discussion of factors that may be relevant to the determinations in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, see Investment Company Act Release No. 25666, July 18, 2002.
(ii) The directors have requested and evaluated such information as may reasonably be necessary to their determinations in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, and have considered and given appropriate weight to all pertinent factors.
(iii) The directors, in making the determination in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, have approved procedures for the valuation of assets to be conveyed by each Eligible Unregistered Fund participating in the Merger. The approved procedures provide for the preparation of a report by an Independent Evaluator, to be considered in assessing the value of any securities (or other assets) for which market quotations are not readily available, that sets forth the fair value of each such asset as of the date of the Merger.
(iv) The determinations required in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and the bases thereof, including the factors considered by the directors pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, are recorded fully in the minute books of the Merging Company.
(3)
Shareholder approval.
Participation in the Merger is approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities (as provided in section 2(a)(42) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(42))) of any Merging Company that is not a Surviving Company, unless—
(i) No policy of the Merging Company that under section 13 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-13) could not be changed without a vote of a majority of its outstanding voting securities, is materially different from a policy of the Surviving Company;
(ii) No advisory contract between the Merging Company and any investment adviser thereof is materially different from an advisory contract between the Surviving Company and any investment adviser thereof, except for the identity of the investment companies as a party to the contract;
(iii) Directors of the Merging Company who are not interested persons of the Merging Company and who were elected by its shareholders, will comprise a majority of the directors of the Surviving Company who are not interested persons of the Surviving Company; and
(iv) Any distribution fees (as a percentage of the fund's average net assets) authorized to be paid by the Surviving Company pursuant to a plan adopted in accordance with § 270.12b-1 are no greater than the distribution fees (as a percentage of the fund's average net assets) authorized to be paid by the Merging Company pursuant to such a plan.
(4)
Board composition.
The board of directors of the Merging Company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7).
(5)
Merger records.
Any Surviving Company preserves written records that describe the Merger and its terms for six years after the Merger (and for the first two years in an easily accessible place).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Merger
means the merger, consolidation, or purchase or sale of substantially all of the assets between a registered investment company (or a series thereof) and another company;
(2)
Eligible Unregistered Fund
means:
(i) A collective trust fund, as described in section 3(c)(11) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(11));
(ii) A common trust fund or similar fund, as described in section 3(c)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(3)); or
(iii) A separate account, as described in section 2(a)(37) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)), that is neither registered under section 8 of the Act, nor required to be so registered;
(3)
Independent Evaluator
means a person who has expertise in the valuation of securities and other financial assets and who is not an interested person, as defined in section 2(a)(19) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)), of the Eligible Unregistered Fund or any affiliate thereof except the Merging Company; and
(4)
Surviving Company
means a company in which shareholders of a Merging Company will obtain an interest as a result of a Merger.
[67 FR 48518, July 24, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 46389, Aug. 2, 2004]
§ 270.17a-9
Purchase of certain securities from a money market fund by an affiliate, or an affiliate of an affiliate.
The purchase of a security from the portfolio of an open-end investment company holding itself out as a money market fund by any affiliated person or promoter of or principal underwriter for the money market fund or any affiliated person of such person shall be exempt from section 17(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a)); provided that:
(a) In the case of a portfolio security that has ceased to be an Eligible Security (as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(12)), or has defaulted (other than an immaterial default unrelated to the financial condition of the issuer):
(1) The purchase price is paid in cash; and
(2) The purchase price is equal to the greater of the amortized cost of the security or its market price (in each case, including accrued interest).
(b) In the case of any other portfolio security:
(1) The purchase price meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) and (2) of this section; and
(2) In the event that the purchaser thereafter sells the security for a higher price than the purchase price paid to the money market fund, the purchaser shall promptly pay to the fund the amount by which the subsequent sale price exceeds the purchase price paid to the fund.
[75 FR 10117, Mar. 4, 2010]
§ 270.17a-10
Exemption for transactions with certain subadvisory affiliates.
(a)
Exemption.
A person that is prohibited by section 17(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(a)) from entering into a transaction with a fund solely because such person is, or is an affiliated person of, a subadviser of the fund, or a subadviser of a fund that is under common control with the fund, may nonetheless enter into such transaction, if:
(1)
Prohibited relationship.
The person is not, and is not an affiliated person of, an investment adviser responsible for providing advice with respect to the portion of the fund for which the transaction is entered into, or of any promoter, underwriter, officer, director, member of an advisory board, or employee of the fund.
(2)
Prohibited conduct.
The advisory contracts of the subadviser that is (or whose affiliated person is) entering into the transaction, and any subadviser that is advising the fund (or portion of the fund) entering into the transaction:
(i) Prohibit them from consulting with each other concerning transactions for the fund in securities or other assets; and
(ii) If both such subadvisers are responsible for providing investment advice to the fund, limit the subadvisers' responsibility in providing advice with respect to a discrete portion of the fund's portfolio.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Fund
means a registered investment company and includes a separate series of a registered investment company.
(2)
Subadviser
means an investment adviser as defined in section 2(a)(20)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(20)(B)).
[68 FR 3153, Jan. 22, 2003]
§ 270.17d-1
Applications regarding joint enterprises or arrangements and certain profit-sharing plans.
(a) No affiliated person of or principal underwriter for any registered investment company (other than a company of the character described in section 12(d)(3) (A) and (B) of the Act) and no affiliated person of such a person or principal underwriter, acting as principal, shall participate in, or effect any transaction in connection with, any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement or profit-sharing plan in which any such registered company, or a company controlled by such registered company, is a participant, and which is entered into, adopted or modified subsequent to the effective date of this rule, unless an application regarding such joint enterprise, arrangement or profit-sharing plan has been filed with the Commission and has been granted
by an order entered prior to the submission of such plan or modification to security holders for approval, or prior to such adoption or modification if not so submitted, except that the provisions of this rule shall not preclude any affiliated person from acting as manager of any underwriting syndicate or other group in which such registered or controlled company is a participant and receiving compensation therefor.
(b) In passing upon such applications, the Commission will consider whether the participation of such registered or controlled company in such joint enterprise, joint arrangement or profit-sharing plan on the basis proposed is consistent with the provisions, policies and purposes of the Act and the extent to which such participation is on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of other participants.
(c) “Joint enterprise or other joint arrangement or profit-sharing plan” as used in this section shall mean any written or oral plan, contract, authorization or arrangement, or any practice or understanding concerning an enterprise or undertaking whereby a registered investment company or a controlled company thereof and any affiliated person of or a principal underwriter for such registered investment company, or any affiliated person of such a person or principal underwriter, have a joint or a joint and several participation, or share in the profits of such enterprise or undertaking, including, but not limited to, any stock option or stock purchase plan, but shall not include an investment advisory contract subject to section 15 of the Act.
(d) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, no application need be filed pursuant to this section with respect to any of the following:
(1) Any profit-sharing, stock option or stock purchase plan provided by any controlled company which is not an investment company for its officers, directors or employees, or the purchase of stock or the granting, modification or exercise of options pursuant to such a plan, provided:
(i) No individual participates therein who is either:
(
a
) An affiliated person of any investment company which is an affiliated person of such controlled company; or
(
b
) An affiliated person of the investment adviser or principal underwriter of such investment company; and
(ii) No participant has been an affiliated person of such investment company, its investment adviser or principal underwriter during the life of the plan and for six months prior to, as the case may be:
(
a
) Institution of the profit-sharing plan;
(
b
) The purchase of stock pursuant to a stock purchase plan; or
(
c
) The granting of any options pursuant to a stock option plan.
(2) Any plan provided by any registered investment company or any controlled company for its officers or employees if such plan has been qualified under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and all contributions paid under said plan by the employer qualify as deductible under section 404 of said Code.
(3) Any loan or advance of credit to, or acquisition of securities or other property of, a small business concern, or any agreement to do any of the foregoing (“Investments”), made by a bank and a small business investment company (SBIC) licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, whether such transactions are contemporaneous or separated in time, where the bank is an affiliated person of either (i) the SBIC or (ii) an affiliated person of the SBIC; but reports containing pertinent details as to Investments and transactions relating thereto shall be made at such time, on such forms and by such persons as the Commission may from time to time prescribe.
(4) The issuance by a registered investment company which is licensed by the Small Business Administration pursuant to the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 of stock options which qualify under section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and which conform to § 107.805(b) of Chapter I of Title 13 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(5) Any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement or profit-sharing plan
(“joint enterprise”) in which a registered investment company or a company controlled by such a company, is a participant, and in which a portfolio affiliate (as defined in § 270.17a-6(b)(3)) of such registered investment company is also a participant, provided that:
(i) None of the persons identified in § 270.17a-6(a) is a participant in the joint enterprise, or has a direct or indirect financial interest in a participant in the joint enterprise (other than the registered investment company);
(ii)
Financial interest.
(A) The term
financial interest
as used in this section does not include:
(
1
) Any interest through ownership of securities issued by the registered investment company;
(
2
) Any interest of a wholly owned subsidiary of the registered investment company;
(
3
) Usual and ordinary fees for services as a director;
(
4
) An interest of a non-executive employee;
(
5
) An interest of an insurance company arising from a loan or policy made or issued by it in the ordinary course of business to a natural person;
(
6
) An interest of a bank arising from a loan to a person who is an officer, director, or executive of a company which is a participant in the joint transaction or from a loan to a person who directly or indirectly owns, controls, or holds with power to vote, five percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of a company which is a participant in the joint transaction;
(
7
) An interest acquired in a transaction described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; or
(
8
) Any other interest that the board of directors of the investment company, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the investment company, finds to be not material, provided that the directors record the basis for that finding in the minutes of their meeting.
(B) A person has a financial interest in any party in which it has a financial interest, in which it had a financial interest within six months prior to the investment company's participation in the enterprise, or in which it will acquire a financial interest pursuant to an arrangement in existence at the time of the investment company's participation in the enterprise.
(6) The receipt of securities and/or cash by an investment company or a controlled company thereof and an affiliated person of such investment company or an affiliated person of such person pursuant to a plan of reorganization:
Provided,
That no person identified in § 270.17a-6(a)(1) or any company in which such a person has a direct or indirect financial interest (as defined in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section):
(i) Has a direct or indirect financial interest in the corporation under reorganization, except owning securities of each class or classes owned by such investment company or controlled company;
(ii) Receives pursuant to such plan any securities or other property, except securities of the same class and subject to the same terms as the securities received by such investment company or controlled company, and/or cash in the same proportion as is received by the investment company or controlled company based on securities of the company under reorganization owned by such persons; and
(iii) Is, or has a direct or indirect financial interest in any person (other than such investment company or controlled company) who is:
(A) Purchasing assets from the company under reorganization; or
(B) Exchanging shares with such person in a transaction not in compliance with the standards described in this paragraph (d)(6).
(7) Any arrangement regarding liability insurance policies (other than a bond required pursuant to rule 17g-1 (§ 270.17g-1) under the Act);
Provided,
That
(i) The investment company's participation in the joint liability insurance policy is in the best interests of the investment company;
(ii) The proposed premium for the joint liability insurance policy to be allocated to the investment company, based upon its proportionate share of the sum of the premiums that would have been paid if such insurance coverage were purchased separately by the insured parties, is fair and reasonable to the investment company;
(iii) The joint liability insurance policy does not exclude coverage for bona fide claims made against any director who is not an interested person of the investment company, or against the investment company if it is a co-defendant in the claim with the disinterested director, by another person insured under the joint liability insurance policy;
(iv) The board of directors of the investment company, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons with respect thereto, determine no less frequently than annually that the standards described in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section have been satisfied; and
(v) The board of directors of the investment company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7).
(8) An investment adviser's bearing expenses in connection with a merger, consolidation or purchase or sale of substantially all of the assets of a company which involves a registered investment company of which it is an affiliated person.
[22 FR 426, Jan. 23, 1957, as amended at 26 FR 11240, Nov. 29, 1961; 35 FR 13123, Aug. 18, 1970; 39 FR 37973, Oct. 25, 1974; 44 FR 58503, Oct. 10, 1979; 44 FR 58908, Oct. 12, 1979; 45 FR 12409, Feb. 26, 1980; 66 FR 3758, Jan. 16, 2001; 68 FR 3153, Jan. 22, 2003; 69 FR 46389, Aug. 2, 2004; 78 FR 79299, Dec. 30, 2013]
§ 270.17d-2
Form for report by small business investment company and affiliated bank.
Form N-17D-1 is hereby prescribed as the form for reports required by paragraph (d)(3) of § 270.17d-1.
[26 FR 11240, Nov. 29, 1961]
§ 270.17d-3
Exemption relating to certain joint enterprises or arrangements concerning payment for distribution of shares of a registered open-end management investment company.
An affiliated person of, or principal underwriter for, a registered open-end management investment company and an affiliated person of such a person or principal underwriter shall be exempt from section 17(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(d)) and rule 17d-1 thereunder (17 CFR 270.17d-1), to the extent necessary to permit any such person or principal underwriter to enter into a written agreement with such company whereby the company will make payments in connection with the distribution of its shares,
Provided,
That:
(a) Such agreement is made in compliance with the provisions of § 270.12b-1; and
(b) No other registered management investment company which is either an affiliated person of such company or an affiliated person of such a person is a party to such agreement.
[45 FR 73905, Nov. 7, 1980]
§ 270.17e-1
Brokerage transactions on a securities exchange.
For purposes of section 17(e)(2)(A) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-17(e)(2)(A)], a commission, fee or other remuneration shall be deemed as not exceeding the usual and customary broker's commission, if:
(a) The commission, fee, or other remuneration received or to be received is reasonable and fair compared to the commission, fee or other remuneration received by other brokers in connection with comparable transactions involving similar securities being purchased or sold on a securities exchange during a comparable period of time;
(b) The board of directors, including a majority of the directors of the investment company who are not interested persons thereof:
(1) Has adopted procedures which are reasonably designed to provide that such commission, fee, or other remuneration is consistent with the standard described in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Makes and approves such changes as the board deems necessary; and
(3) Determines no less frequently than quarterly that all transactions effected pursuant to this section during the preceding quarter (other than transactions in which the person acting as broker is a person permitted to enter into a transaction with the investment company by § 270.17a-10) were effected in compliance with such procedures;
(c) The board of directors of the investment company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7); and
(d) The investment company:
(1) Shall maintain and preserve permanently in an easily accessible place a copy of the procedures (and any modification thereto) described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(2) Shall maintain and preserve for a period not less than six years from the end of the fiscal year in which any transactions occurred, the first two years in an easily accessible place, a record of each such transaction (other than any transaction in which the person acting as broker is a person permitted to enter into a transaction with the investment company by § 270.17a-10) setting forth the amount and source of the commission, fee or other remuneration received or to be received, the identity of the person acting as broker, the terms of the transaction, and the information or materials upon which the findings described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section were made.
[44 FR 37203, June 26, 1979, as amended at 58 FR 49921, Sept. 24, 1993; 66 FR 3759, Jan. 16, 2001; 68 FR 3154, Jan. 22, 2003; 69 FR 46389, Aug. 2, 2004]
§ 270.17f-1
Custody of securities with members of national securities exchanges.
(a) No registered management investment company shall place or maintain any of its securities or similar investments in the custody of a company which is a member of a national securities exchange as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (whether or not such company trades in securities for its own account) except pursuant to a written contract which shall have been approved, or if executed before January 1, 1941, shall have been ratified not later than that date, by a majority of the board of directors of such investment company.
(b) The contract shall require, and the securities and investments shall be maintained in accordance with the following:
(1) The securities and similar investments held in such custody shall at all times be individually segregated from the securities and investments of any other person and marked in such manner as to clearly identify them as the property of such registered management company, both upon physical inspection thereof and upon examination of the books of the custodian. The physical segregation and marking of such securities and investments may be accomplished by putting them in separate containers bearing the name of such registered management investment company or by attaching tags or labels to such securities and investments.
(2) The custodian shall have no power or authority to assign, hypothecate, pledge or otherwise to dispose of any such securities and investments, except pursuant to the direction of such registered management company and only for the account of such registered investment company.
(3) Such securities and investments shall be subject to no lien or charge of any kind in favor of the custodian or any persons claiming through the custodian.
(4) Such securities and investments shall be verified by actual examination at the end of each annual and semi-annual fiscal period by an independent public accountant retained by the investment company, and shall be examined by such accountant at least one other time, chosen by the accountant, during each fiscal year. A certificate of such accountant stating that an examination of such securities has been made, and describing the nature and extent of the examination, shall be attached to a completed Form N-17f-1 (17 CFR 274.219) and transmitted to the Commission promptly after each examination.
(5) Such securities and investments shall, at all times, be subject to inspection by the Commission through its employees or agents.
(6) The provisions of paragraphs (b) (1), (2) and (3) of this section shall not apply to securities and similar investments bought for or sold to such investment company by the company which is custodian until the securities have been reduced to the physical possession of the custodian and have been paid for by such investment company:
Provided,
That the company which is custodian shall take possession of such securities at the earliest practicable time. Nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to relieve any company which is a member of a national securities exchange of any obligation
under existing law or under the rules of any national securities exchange.
(c) A copy of any contract executed or ratified pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be transmitted to the Commission promptly after execution or ratification unless it has been previously transmitted.
(d) Any contract executed or ratified pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be ratified by the board of directors of the registered management investment company at least annually thereafter.
[Rule N-17F-1, 5 FR 4317, Oct. 31, 1940, as amended at 54 FR 32049, Aug. 4, 1989]
§ 270.17f-2
Custody of investments by registered management investment company.
(a) The securities and similar investments of a registered management investment company may be maintained in the custody of such company only in accordance with the provisions of this section. Investments maintained by such a company with a bank or other company whose functions and physical facilities are supervised by Federal or State authority under any arrangement whereunder the directors, officers, employees or agents of such company are authorized or permitted to withdraw such investments upon their mere receipt, are deemed to be in the custody of such company and may be so maintained only upon compliance with the provisions of this section.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all such securities and similar investments shall be deposited in the safekeeping of, or in a vault or other depository maintained by, a bank or other company whose functions and physical facilities are supervised by Federal or State authority. Investments so deposited shall be physically segregated at all times from those of any other person and shall be withdrawn only in connection with transactions of the character described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) The first sentence of paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to securities on loan which are collateralized to the extent of their full market value, or to securities hypothecated, pledged, or placed in escrow for the account of such investment company in connection with a loan or other transaction authorized by specific resolution of its board of directors, or to securities in transit in connection with the sale, exchange, redemption, maturity or conversion, the exercise of warrants or rights, assents to changes in terms of the securities, or other transactions necessary or appropriate in the ordinary course of business relating to the management of securities.
(d) Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall be authorized or permitted to have access to the securities and similar investments deposited in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section except pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors of such investment company. Each such resolution shall designate not more than five persons who shall be either officers or responsible employees of such company and shall provide that access to such investments shall be had only by two or more such persons jointly, at least one of whom shall be an officer; except that access to such investments shall be permitted (1) to properly authorized officers and employees of the bank or other company in whose safekeeping the investments are placed and (2) for the purpose of paragraph (f) of this section to the independent public accountant jointly with any two persons so designated or with such officer or employee of such bank or such other company. Such investments shall at all times be subject to inspection by the Commission through its authorized employees or agents accompanied, unless otherwise directed by order of the Commission, by one or more of the persons designated pursuant to this paragraph.
(e) Each person when depositing such securities or similar investments in or withdrawing them from the depository or when ordering their withdrawal and delivery from the safekeeping of the bank or other company, shall sign a notation in respect of such deposit, withdrawal or order which shall show (1) the date and time of the deposit, withdrawal or order, (2) the title and amount of the securities or other investments deposited, withdrawn or ordered to be withdrawn, and an identification thereof by certificate numbers
or otherwise, (3) the manner of acquisition of the securities or similar investments deposited or the purpose for which they have been withdrawn, or ordered to be withdrawn, and (4) if withdrawn and delivered to another person the name of such person. Such notation shall be transmitted promptly to an officer or director of the investment company designated by its board of directors who shall not be a person designated for the purpose of paragraph (d) of this section. Such notation shall be on serially numbered forms and shall be preserved for at least one year.
(f) Such securities and similar investments shall be verified by actual examination by an independent public accountant retained by the investment company at least three times during each fiscal year, at least two of which shall be chosen by such accountant without prior notice to such company. A certificate of such accountant stating that an examination of such securities and investments has been made, and describing the nature and extent of the examination, shall be attached to a completed Form N-17f-2 (17 CFR 274.220) and transmitted to the Commission promptly after each examination.
[Rule N-17F-2, 12 FR 6717, Oct. 11, 1947, as amended at 54 FR 32049, Aug. 4, 1989]
§ 270.17f-3
Free cash accounts for investment companies with bank custodians.
No registered investment company having a bank custodian shall hold free cash except, upon resolution of its board or directors, a petty cash account may be maintained in an amount not to exceed $500:
Provided,
That such account is operated under the imprest system and is maintained subject to adequate controls approved by the board of directors over disbursements and reimbursements including, but not limited to fidelity bond coverage of persons having access to such funds.
(Sec. 17(f), 54 Stat. 815, 15 U.S.C. 80a-17(f), sec. 9, Pub. L. 91-547, 84 Stat. 1420)
[37 FR 9989, May 18, 1972]
§ 270.17f-4
Custody of investment company assets with a securities depository.
(a)
Custody arrangement with a securities depository.
A fund's custodian may place and maintain financial assets, corresponding to the fund's security entitlements, with a securities depository or intermediary custodian, if the custodian:
(1) Is at a minimum obligated to exercise due care in accordance with reasonable commercial standards in discharging its duty as a securities intermediary to obtain and thereafter maintain such financial assets;
(2) Is required to provide, promptly upon request by the fund, such reports as are available concerning the internal accounting controls and financial strength of the custodian; and
(3) Requires any intermediary custodian at a minimum to exercise due care in accordance with reasonable commercial standards in discharging its duty as a securities intermediary to obtain and thereafter maintain financial assets corresponding to the security entitlements of its entitlement holders.
(b)
Direct dealings with securities depository.
A fund may place and maintain financial assets, corresponding to the fund's security entitlements, directly with a securities depository, if:
(1) The fund's contract with the securities depository or the securities depository's written rules for its participants:
(i) Obligate the securities depository at a minimum to exercise due care in accordance with reasonable commercial standards in discharging its duty as a securities intermediary to obtain and thereafter maintain financial assets corresponding to the fund's security entitlements; and
(ii) Requires the securities depository to provide, promptly upon request by the fund, such reports as are available concerning the internal accounting controls and financial strength of the securities depository; and
(2) The fund has implemented internal control systems reasonably designed to prevent unauthorized officer's instructions (by providing at least for the form, content and means of giving, recording and reviewing all officer's instructions).
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section the terms:
(1)
Clearing corporation, financial asset, securities intermediary, and security entitlement
have the same meanings as is attributed to those terms in § 8-102, § 8-103, and §§ 8-501 through 8-511 of the Uniform Commercial Code, 2002 Official Text and Comments, which are incorporated by reference in this section pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The Director of the Federal Register has approved this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of the Uniform Commercial Code from the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 211 East Ontario Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, Il 60611. You may inspect a copy at the following addresses: Louis Loss Library, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(2)
Custodian
means a bank or other person authorized to hold assets for the fund under section 17(f) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(f)) or Commission rules in this chapter, but does not include a fund itself, a foreign custodian whose use is governed by § 270.17f-5 or § 270.17f-7, or a vault, safe deposit box, or other repository for safekeeping maintained by a bank or other company whose functions and physical facilities are supervised by a federal or state authority if the fund maintains its own assets there in accordance with § 270.17f-2.
(3)
Fund
means an investment company registered under the Act and, where the context so requires with respect to a fund that is a unit investment trust or a face-amount certificate company, includes the fund's trustee.
(4)
Intermediary custodian
means any subcustodian that is a securities intermediary and is qualified to act as a custodian.
(5)
Officer's instruction
means a request or direction to a securities depository or its operator, or to a registered transfer agent, in the name of the fund by one or more persons authorized by the fund's board of directors (or by the fund's trustee, if the fund is a unit investment trust or a face-amount certificate company) to give the request or direction.
(6)
Securities depository
means a clearing corporation that is:
(i) Registered with the Commission as a clearing agency under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1); or
(ii) A Federal Reserve Bank or other person authorized to operate the federal book entry system described in the regulations of the Department of Treasury codified at 31 CFR 357, Subpart B, or book-entry systems operated pursuant to comparable regulations of other federal agencies.
[68 FR 8442, Feb. 20, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 73 FR 32228, June 5, 2008]
§ 270.17f-5
Custody of investment company assets outside the United States.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Eligible Foreign Custodian
means an entity that is incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States and that is a Qualified Foreign Bank or a majority-owned direct or indirect subsidiary of a U.S. Bank or bank-holding company.
(2)
Foreign Assets
means any investments (including foreign currencies) for which the primary market is outside the United States, and any cash and cash equivalents that are reasonably necessary to effect the Fund's transactions in those investments.
(3)
Foreign Custody Manager
means a Fund's or a Registered Canadian Fund's board of directors or any person serving as the board's delegate under paragraphs (b) or (d) of this section.
(4)
Fund
means a management investment company registered under the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a) and incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or of a state.
(5)
Qualified Foreign Bank
means a banking institution or trust company, incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States, that is regulated as such by the country's government or
an agency of the country's government.
(6)
Registered Canadian Fund
means a management investment company incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada and registered under the Act pursuant to the conditions of § 270.7d-1.
(7)
U.S. Bank
means an entity that is:
(i) A banking institution organized under the laws of the United States;
(ii) A member bank of the Federal Reserve System;
(iii) Any other banking institution or trust company organized under the laws of any state or of the United States, whether incorporated or not, doing business under the laws of any state or of the United States, a substantial portion of the business of which consists of receiving deposits or exercising fiduciary powers similar to those permitted to national banks under the authority of the Comptroller of the Currency, and which is supervised and examined by state or federal authority having supervision over banks, and which is not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of this section; or
(iv) A receiver, conservator, or other liquidating agent of any institution or firm included in paragraphs (a)(7)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(b)
Delegation.
A Fund's board of directors may delegate to the Fund's investment adviser or officers or to a U.S. Bank or to a Qualified Foreign Bank the responsibilities set forth in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3) of this section,
provided that:
(1)
Reasonable Reliance.
The board determines that it is reasonable to rely on the delegate to perform the delegated responsibilities;
(2)
Reporting.
The board requires the delegate to provide written reports notifying the board of the placement of Foreign Assets with a particular custodian and of any material change in the Fund's foreign custody arrangements, with the reports to be provided to the board at such times as the board deems reasonable and appropriate based on the circumstances of the Fund's arrangements; and
(3)
Exercise of Care.
The delegate agrees to exercise reasonable care, prudence and diligence such as a person having responsibility for the safekeeping of the Fund's Foreign Assets would exercise, or to adhere to a higher standard of care, in performing the delegated responsibilities.
(c)
Maintaining Assets with an Eligible Foreign Custodian.
A Fund or its Foreign Custody Manager may place and maintain the Fund's Foreign Assets in the care of an Eligible Foreign Custodian,
provided that:
(1)
General Standard.
The Foreign Custody Manager determines that the Foreign Assets will be subject to reasonable care, based on the standards applicable to custodians in the relevant market, if maintained with the Eligible Foreign Custodian, after considering all factors relevant to the safekeeping of the Foreign Assets, including, without limitation:
(i) The Eligible Foreign Custodian's practices, procedures, and internal controls, including, but not limited to, the physical protections available for certificated securities (if applicable), the method of keeping custodial records, and the security and data protection practices;
(ii) Whether the Eligible Foreign Custodian has the requisite financial strength to provide reasonable care for Foreign Assets;
(iii) The Eligible Foreign Custodian's general reputation and standing; and
(iv) Whether the Fund will have jurisdiction over and be able to enforce judgments against the Eligible Foreign Custodian, such as by virtue of the existence of offices in the United States or consent to service of process in the United States.
(2)
Contract.
The arrangement with the Eligible Foreign Custodian is governed by a written contract that the Foreign Custody Manager has determined will provide reasonable care for Foreign Assets based on the standards specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(i) The contract must provide:
(A) For indemnification or insurance arrangements (or any combination) that will adequately protect the Fund against the risk of loss of Foreign Assets held in accordance with the contract;
(B) That the Foreign Assets will not be subject to any right, charge, security interest, lien or claim of any kind
in favor of the Eligible Foreign Custodian or its creditors, except a claim of payment for their safe custody or administration or, in the case of cash deposits, liens or rights in favor of creditors of the custodian arising under bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar laws;
(C) That beneficial ownership of the Foreign Assets will be freely transferable without the payment of money or value other than for safe custody or administration;
(D) That adequate records will be maintained identifying the Foreign Assets as belonging to the Fund or as being held by a third party for the benefit of the Fund;
(E) That the Fund's independent public accountants will be given access to those records or confirmation of the contents of those records; and
(F) That the Fund will receive periodic reports with respect to the safekeeping of the Foreign Assets, including, but not limited to, notification of any transfer to or from the Fund's account or a third party account containing assets held for the benefit of the Fund.
(ii) The contract may contain, in lieu of any or all of the provisions specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, other provisions that the Foreign Custody Manager determines will provide, in their entirety, the same or a greater level of care and protection for the Foreign Assets as the specified provisions, in their entirety.
(3)(i)
Monitoring the Foreign Custody Arrangements.
The Foreign Custody Manager has established a system to monitor the appropriateness of maintaining the Foreign Assets with a particular custodian under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and to monitor performance of the contract under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(ii) If an arrangement with an Eligible Foreign Custodian no longer meets the requirements of this section, the Fund must withdraw the Foreign Assets from the Eligible Foreign Custodian as soon as reasonably practicable.
(d)
Registered Canadian Funds.
Any Registered Canadian Fund may place and maintain its Foreign Assets outside the United States in accordance with the requirements of this section,
provided
(1) The Foreign Assets are placed in the care of an overseas branch of a U.S. Bank that has aggregate capital, surplus, and undivided profits of a specified amount, which must not be less than $500,000; and
(2) The Foreign Custody Manager is the Fund's board of directors, its investment adviser or officers, or a U.S. Bank.

# Note to § 270.17
f

# -5:
When a Fund's (or its custodian's) custody arrangement with an Eligible Securities Depository (as defined in § 270.17f-7) involves one or more Eligible Foreign Custodians through which assets are maintained with the Eligible Securities Depository, § 270.17f-5 will govern the Fund's (or its custodian's) use of each Eligible Foreign Custodian, while § 270.17f-7 will govern an Eligible Foreign Custodian's use of the Eligible Securities Depository.
[65 FR 25637, May 3, 2000]
§ 270.17f-6
Custody of investment company assets with Futures Commission Merchants and Commodity Clearing Organizations.
(a) A Fund may place and maintain cash, securities, and similar investments with a Futures Commission Merchant in amounts necessary to effect the Fund's transactions in Exchange-Traded Futures Contracts and Commodity Options,
Provided that:
(1) The manner in which the Futures Commission Merchant maintains the Fund's assets shall be governed by a written contract, which provides that:
(i) The Futures Commission Merchant shall comply with the segregation requirements of section 4d(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6d(2)) and the rules thereunder (17 CFR Chapter I) or, if applicable, the secured amount requirements of rule 30.7 under the Commodity Exchange Act (17 CFR 30.7);
(ii) The Futures Commission Merchant, as appropriate to the Fund's transactions and in accordance with the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 through 25) and the rules and regulations thereunder (including 17 CFR part 30), may place and maintain the Fund's assets to effect the Fund's transactions with another Futures Commission Merchant, a Clearing Organization, a U.S. or Foreign Bank, or
a member of a foreign board of trade, and shall obtain an acknowledgment, as required under rules 1.20(a) or 30.7(c) under the Commodity Exchange Act [17 CFR 1.20(a) or 30.7(c)], as applicable, that such assets are held on behalf of the Futures Commission Merchant's customers in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act; and
(iii) The Futures Commission Merchant shall promptly furnish copies of or extracts from the Futures Commission Merchant's records or such other information pertaining to the Fund's assets as the Commission through its employees or agents may request.
(2) Any gains on the Fund's transactions, other than de minimis amounts, may be maintained with the Futures Commission Merchant only until the next business day following receipt.
(3) If the custodial arrangement no longer meets the requirements of this section, the Fund shall withdraw its assets from the Futures Commission Merchant as soon as reasonably practicable.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Clearing Organization
means a clearing organization as defined in rule 1.3(d) under the Commodity Exchange Act (17 CFR 1.3(d)) and includes a clearing organization for a foreign board of trade.
(2)
Exchange-Traded Futures Contracts and Commodity Options
means commodity futures contracts, options on commodity futures contracts, and options on physical commodities traded on or subject to the rules of:
(i) Any contract market designated for trading such transactions under the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules thereunder; or
(ii) Any board of trade or exchange outside the United States, as contemplated in Part 30 under the Commodity Exchange Act.
(3)
Fund
means an investment company registered under the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
).
(4)
Futures Commission Merchant
means any person that is registered as a futures commission merchant under the Commodity Exchange Act and that is not an affiliated person of the Fund or an affiliated person of such person.
(5)
U.S. or Foreign Bank
means a bank, as defined in section 2(a)(5) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(5)), or a banking institution or trust company that is incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States and that is regulated as such by the country's government or an agency thereof.
[61 FR 66212, Dec. 17, 1996]
§ 270.17f-7
Custody of investment company assets with a foreign securities depository.
(a)
Custody arrangement with an eligible securities depository.
A Fund, including a Registered Canadian Fund, may place and maintain its Foreign Assets with an Eligible Securities Depository,
provided that:
(1)
Risk-limiting safeguards.
The custody arrangement provides reasonable safeguards against the custody risks associated with maintaining assets with the Eligible Securities Depository, including:
(i)
Risk analysis and monitoring.
(A) The fund or its investment adviser has received from the Primary Custodian (or its agent) an analysis of the custody risks associated with maintaining assets with the Eligible Securities Depository; and
(B) The contract between the Fund and the Primary Custodian requires the Primary Custodian (or its agent) to monitor the custody risks associated with maintaining assets with the Eligible Securities Depository on a continuing basis, and promptly notify the Fund or its investment adviser of any material change in these risks.
(ii)
Exercise of care.
The contract between the Fund and the Primary Custodian states that the Primary Custodian will agree to exercise reasonable care, prudence, and diligence in performing the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, or adhere to a higher standard of care.
(2)
Withdrawal of assets from eligible securities depository.
If a custody arrangement with an Eligible Securities Depository no longer meets the requirements of this section, the Fund's Foreign Assets must be withdrawn from the depository as soon as reasonably practicable.
(b)
Definitions.
The terms
Foreign Assets, Fund, Qualified Foreign Bank, Registered Canadian Fund,
and
U.S. Bank
have the same meanings as in § 270.17f-5. In addition:
(1)
Eligible Securities Depository
means a system for the central handling of securities as defined in § 270.17f-4 that:
(i) Acts as or operates a system for the central handling of securities or equivalent book-entries in the country where it is incorporated, or a transnational system for the central handling of securities or equivalent book-entries;
(ii) Is regulated by a foreign financial regulatory authority as defined under section 2(a)(50) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(50));
(iii) Holds assets for the custodian that participates in the system on behalf of the Fund under safekeeping conditions no less favorable than the conditions that apply to other participants;
(iv) Maintains records that identify the assets of each participant and segregate the system's own assets from the assets of participants;
(v) Provides periodic reports to its participants with respect to its safekeeping of assets, including notices of transfers to or from any participant's account; and
(vi) Is subject to periodic examination by regulatory authorities or independent accountants.
(2)
Primary Custodian
means a U.S. Bank or Qualified Foreign Bank that contracts directly with a Fund to provide custodial services related to maintaining the Fund's assets outside the United States.

# Note to § 270.17
f

# -7:
When a Fund's (or its custodian's) custody arrangement with an Eligible Securities Depository involves one or more Eligible Foreign Custodians (as defined in § 270.17f-5) through which assets are maintained with the Eligible Securities Depository, § 270.17f-5 will govern the Fund's (or its custodian's) use of each Eligible Foreign Custodian, while § 270.17f-7 will govern an Eligible Foreign Custodian's use of the Eligible Securities Depository.
[65 FR 25638, May 3, 2000]
§ 270.17g-1
Bonding of officers and employees of registered management investment companies.
(a) Each registered management investment company shall provide and maintain a bond which shall be issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company, authorized to do business in the place where the bond is issued, against larceny and embezzlement, covering each officer and employee of the investment company, who may singly, or jointly with others, have access to securities or funds of the investment company, either directly or through authority to draw upon such funds or to direct generally the disposition of such securities, unless the officer or employee has such access solely through his position as an officer or employee of a bank (hereinafter referred to as “covered persons”).
(b) The bond may be in the form of (1) an individual bond for each covered person or a schedule or blanket bond covering such persons, (2) a blanket bond which names the registered management investment company as the only insured (hereinafter referred to as “single insured bond”) or (3) a bond which names the registered management investment company and one or more other parties as insureds (hereinafter referred to as a “joint insured bond”), such other insured parties being limited to (i) persons engaged in the management or distribution of the shares of the registered investment company, (ii) other registered investment companies which are managed and/or whose shares are distributed by the same persons (or affiliates of such persons), (iii) persons who are engaged in the management and/or distribution of shares of companies included in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, (iv) affiliated persons of any registered management investment company named in the bond or of any person included in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(iii) of this section who are engaged in the administration of any registered management investment company named as insured in the bond, and (v) any trust, pension, profit-sharing or other benefit plan for officers, directors or employees of persons named in the bond.
(c) A bond of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section shall provide that it shall not be cancelled, terminated or modified except after written notice shall have been given by the acting party to the affected party and to the Commission not less than sixty days prior to the effective date of cancellation, termination or modification. A joint insured bond described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall provide, that (1) it shall not be cancelled terminated or modified except after written notice shall have been given by the acting party to the affected party, and by the fidelity insurance company to all registered investment companies named as insureds and to the Commission, not less than sixty days prior to the effective date of cancellation, termination, or modification and (2) the fidelity insurance company shall furnish each registered management investment company named as an insured with (i) a copy of the bond and any amendment thereto promptly after the execution thereof, (ii) a copy of each formal filing of a claim under the bond by any other named insured promptly after the receipt thereof, and (iii) notification of the terms of the settlement of each such claim prior to the execution of the settlement.
(d) The bond shall be in such reasonable form and amount as a majority of the board of directors of the registered management investment company who are not “interested persons” of such investment company as defined by section 2(a)(19) of the Act shall approve as often as their fiduciary duties require, but not less than once every twelve months, with due consideration to all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the value of the aggregate assets of the registered management investment company to which any covered person may have access, the type and terms of the arrangements made for the custody and safekeeping of such assets, and the nature of the securities in the company's portfolio:
Provided, however,
That (1) the amount of a single insured bond shall be at least equal to an amount computed in accordance with the following schedule:
Amount of registered management
investment company gross assets—at the end of the most recent fiscal
quarter prior to date (in dollars)
Minimum amount of bond (in dollars)
Up to 500,000
50,000.
500,000 to 1,000,000
75,000.
1,000,000 to 2,500,000
100,000.
2,500,000 to 5,000,000
125,000.
5,000,000 to 7,500,000
150,000.
7,500,000 to 10,000,000
175,000.
10,000,000 to 15,000,000
200,000.
15,000,000 to 20,000,000
225,000.
20,000,000 to 25,000,000
250,000.
25,000,000 to 35,000,000
300,000.
35,000,000 to 50,000,000
350,000.
50,000,000 to 75,000,000
400,000.
75,000,000, to 100,000,000
450,000.
100,000,000 to 150,000,000
525,000.
150,000,000 to 250,000,000
600,000.
250,000,000 to 500,000,000
750,000.
500,000,000 to 750,000,000
900,000.
750,000,000 to 1,000,000,000
1,000,000.
1,000,000,000 to 1,500,000,000
1,250,000.
1,500,000,000 to 2,000,000,000
1,500,000.
Over 2,000,000,000
1,500,000 plus 200,000 for each 500,000,000 of gross assets up to a maximum bond of 2,500,000.
(2) A joint insured bond shall be in an amount at least equal to the sum of (i) the total amount of coverage which each registered management investment company named as an insured would have been required to provide and maintain individually pursuant to the schedule hereinabove had each such registered management investment company not been named under a joint insured bond, plus (ii) the amount of each bond which each named insured other than a registered management investment company would have been required to provide and maintain pursuant to federal statutes or regulations had it not been named as an insured under a joint insured bond.
(e) No premium may be paid for any joint insured bond or any amendment thereto unless a majority of the board of directors of each registered management investment company named as an insured therein who are not “interested persons” of such company shall approve the portion of the premium to be paid by such company, taking all relevant factors into consideration including, but not limited to, the number of the other parties named as insured, the nature of the business activities of such other parties, the amount of the joint insured bond, and the amount of the premium for such bond, the ratable
allocation of the premium among all parties named as insureds, and the extent to which the share of the premium allocated to the investment company is less than the premium such company would have had to pay if it had provided and maintained a single insured bond.
(f) Each registered management investment company named as an insured in a joint insured bond shall enter into an agreement with all of the other named insureds providing that in the event recovery is received under the bond as a result of a loss sustained by the registered management investment company and one or more other named insureds, the registered management investment company shall receive an equitable and proportionate share of the recovery, but at least equal to the amount which it would have received had it provided and maintained a single insured bond with the minimum coverage required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(g) Each registered management investment company shall:
(1) File with the Commission (i) within 10 days after receipt of an executed bond of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section or any amendment thereof, (
a
) a copy of the bond, (
b
) a copy of the resolution of a majority of the board of directors who are not “interested persons” of the registered management investment company approving the form and amount of the bond, and (
c
) a statement as to the period for which premiums have been paid; (ii) within 10 days after receipt of an executed joint insured bond, or any amendment thereof, (
a
) a copy of the bond, (
b
) a copy of the resolution of a majority of the board of directors who are not “interested persons” of the registered management investment company approving the amount, type, form and coverage of the bond and the portion of the premium to be paid by such company, (
c
) a statement showing the amount of the single insured bond which the investment company would have provided and maintained had it not been named as an insured under a joint insured bond, (
d
) a statement as to the period for which premiums have been paid, and (
e
) a copy of each agreement between the investment company and all of the other named insureds entered into pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section; and (iii) a copy of any amendment to the agreement entered into pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section within 10 days after the execution of such amendment,
(2) File with the Commission, in writing, within five days after the making of any claim under the bond by the investment company, a statement of the nature and amount of the claim,
(3) File with the Commission, within five days of the receipt thereof, a copy of the terms of the settlement of any claim made under the bond by the investment company, and
(4) Notify by registered mail each member of the board of directors of the investment company at his last known residence address of (i) any cancellation, termination or modification of the bond, not less than forty-five days prior to the effective date of the cancellation or termination or modification, (ii) the filing and of the settlement of any claim under the bond by the investment company, at the time the filings required by paragraph (g) (2) and (3) of this section are made with the Commission, and (iii) the filing and of the proposed terms of settlement of any claim under the bond by any other named insured, within five days of the receipt of a notice from the fidelity insurance company.
(h) Each registered management investment company shall designate an officer thereof who shall make the filings and give the notices required by paragraph (g) of this section.
(i) Where the registered management investment company is an unincorporated company managed by a depositor, trustee or investment adviser, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall include, for the purposes of this rule, the officers and employees of the depositor, trustee, or investment adviser.
(j) Any joint insured bond provided and maintained by a registered management investment company and one or more other parties shall be a transaction exempt from the provisions of section 17(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-17(d)) and the rules thereunder, if:
(1) The terms and provisions of the bond comply with the provisions of this section;
(2) The terms and provisions of any agreement required by paragraph (f) of this section comply with the provisions of that paragraph; and
(3) The board of directors of the investment company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7).
(k) At the next anniversary date of an existing fidelity bond, but not later than one year from the effective date of this rule, arrangements between registered management investment companies and fidelity insurance companies and arrangements between registered management investment companies and other parties named as insureds under joint insured bonds which would not permit compliance with the provisions of this rule shall be modified by the parties so as to effect such compliance.
[39 FR 10579, Mar. 21, 1974, as amended at 66 FR 3759, Jan. 16, 2001; 69 FR 46390, Aug. 2, 2004]
§ 270.17j-1
Personal investment activities of investment company personnel.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Access person
means:
(i) Any Advisory Person of a Fund or of a Fund's investment adviser. If an investment adviser's primary business is advising Funds or other advisory clients, all of the investment adviser's directors, officers, and general partners are presumed to be Access Persons of any Fund advised by the investment adviser. All of a Fund's directors, officers, and general partners are presumed to be Access Persons of the Fund.
(ii) Any director, officer or general partner of a principal underwriter who, in the ordinary course of business, makes, participates in or obtains information regarding, the purchase or sale of Covered Securities by the Fund for which the principal underwriter acts, or whose functions or duties in the ordinary course of business relate to the making of any recommendation to the Fund regarding the purchase or sale of Covered Securities.
(2)
Advisory person
of a Fund or of a Fund's investment adviser means:
(i) Any director, officer, general partner or employee of the Fund or investment adviser (or of any company in a control relationship to the Fund or investment adviser) who, in connection with his or her regular functions or duties, makes, participates in, or obtains information regarding, the purchase or sale of Covered Securities by a Fund, or whose functions relate to the making of any recommendations with respect to such purchases or sales; and
(ii) Any natural person in a control relationship to the Fund or investment adviser who obtains information concerning recommendations made to the Fund with regard to the purchase or sale of Covered Securities by the Fund.
(3)
Control
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(9) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(9)].
(4)
Covered security
means a security as defined in section 2(a)(36) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(36)], except that it does not include:
(i) Direct obligations of the Government of the United States;
(ii) Bankers' acceptances, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper and high quality short-term debt instruments, including repurchase agreements; and
(iii) Shares issued by open-end Funds.
(5)
Fund
means an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act.
(6) An
Initial public offering
means an offering of securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a], the issuer of which, immediately before the registration, was not subject to the reporting requirements of sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)].
(7)
Investment personnel
of a Fund or of a Fund's investment adviser means:
(i) Any employee of the Fund or investment adviser (or of any company in a control relationship to the Fund or investment adviser) who, in connection with his or her regular functions or duties, makes or participates in making recommendations regarding the purchase or sale of securities by the Fund.
(ii) Any natural person who controls the Fund or investment adviser and who obtains information concerning
recommendations made to the Fund regarding the purchase or sale of securities by the Fund.
(8) A
Limited offering
means an offering that is exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to section 4(a)(2) or section 4(a)(5) [15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(2) or 77d(a)(5)] or pursuant to rule 504, or rule 506 [17 CFR 230.504 or 230.506] under the Securities Act of 1933.
(9)
Purchase or sale of a covered security
includes, among other things, the writing of an option to purchase or sell a Covered Security.
(10)
Security held or to be acquired
by a Fund means:
(i) Any Covered Security which, within the most recent 15 days:
(A) Is or has been held by the Fund; or
(B) Is being or has been considered by the Fund or its investment adviser for purchase by the Fund; and
(ii) Any option to purchase or sell, and any security convertible into or exchangeable for, a Covered Security described in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section.
(11)
Automatic investment plan
means a program in which regular periodic purchases (or withdrawals) are made automatically in (or from) investment accounts in accordance with a predetermined schedule and allocation. An Automatic Investment Plan includes a dividend reinvestment plan.
(b)
Unlawful actions.
It is unlawful for any affiliated person of or principal underwriter for a Fund, or any affiliated person of an investment adviser of or principal underwriter for a Fund, in connection with the purchase or sale, directly or indirectly, by the person of a Security Held or to be Acquired by the Fund:
(1) To employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud the Fund;
(2) To make any untrue statement of a material fact to the Fund or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made to the Fund, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading;
(3) To engage in any act, practice or course of business that operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit on the Fund; or
(4) To engage in any manipulative practice with respect to the Fund.
(c)
Code of Ethics
—(1)
Adoption and approval of Code of Ethics.
(i) Every Fund (other than a money market fund or a Fund that does not invest in Covered Securities) and each investment adviser of and principal underwriter for the Fund, must adopt a written code of ethics containing provisions reasonably necessary to prevent its Access Persons from engaging in any conduct prohibited by paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) The board of directors of a Fund, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons, must approve the code of ethics of the Fund, the code of ethics of each investment adviser and principal underwriter of the Fund, and any material changes to these codes. The board must base its approval of a code and any material changes to the code on a determination that the code contains provisions reasonably necessary to prevent Access Persons from engaging in any conduct prohibited by paragraph (b) of this section. Before approving a code of a Fund, investment adviser or principal underwriter or any amendment to the code, the board of directors must receive a certification from the Fund, investment adviser or principal underwriter that it has adopted procedures reasonably necessary to prevent Access Persons from violating the Fund's, investment adviser's, or principal underwriter's code of ethics. The Fund's board must approve the code of an investment adviser or principal underwriter before initially retaining the services of the investment adviser or principal underwriter. The Fund's board must approve a material change to a code no later than six months after adoption of the material change.
(iii) If a Fund is a unit investment trust, the Fund's principal underwriter or depositor must approve the Fund's code of ethics, as required by paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. If the Fund has more than one principal underwriter or depositor, the principal underwriters and depositors may designate, in writing, which principal underwriter or depositor must conduct the approval required by paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, if they obtain
written consent from the designated principal underwriter or depositor.
(2)
Administration of Code of Ethics.
(i) The Fund, investment adviser and principal underwriter must use reasonable diligence and institute procedures reasonably necessary to prevent violations of its code of ethics.
(ii) No less frequently than annually, every Fund (other than a unit investment trust) and its investment advisers and principal underwriters must furnish to the Fund's board of directors, and the board of directors must consider, a written report that:
(A) Describes any issues arising under the code of ethics or procedures since the last report to the board of directors, including, but not limited to, information about material violations of the code or procedures and sanctions imposed in response to the material violations; and
(B) Certifies that the Fund, investment adviser or principal underwriter, as applicable, has adopted procedures reasonably necessary to prevent Access Persons from violating the code.
(3)
Exception for principal underwriters.
The requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section do not apply to any principal underwriter unless:
(i) The principal underwriter is an affiliated person of the Fund or of the Fund's investment adviser; or
(ii) An officer, director or general partner of the principal underwriter serves as an officer, director or general partner of the Fund or of the Fund's investment adviser.
(d)
Reporting requirements of access persons
—(1)
Reports required.
Unless excepted by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, every Access Person of a Fund (other than a money market fund or a Fund that does not invest in Covered Securities) and every Access Person of an investment adviser of or principal underwriter for the Fund, must report to that Fund, investment adviser or principal underwriter:
(i)
Initial holdings reports.
No later than 10 days after the person becomes an Access Person (which information must be current as of a date no more than 45 days prior to the date the person becomes an Access Person):
(A) The title, number of shares and principal amount of each Covered Security in which the Access Person had any direct or indirect beneficial ownership when the person became an Access Person;
(B) The name of any broker, dealer or bank with whom the Access Person maintained an account in which any securities were held for the direct or indirect benefit of the Access Person as of the date the person became an Access Person; and
(C) The date that the report is submitted by the Access Person.
(ii)
Quarterly transaction reports.
No later than 30 days after the end of a calendar quarter, the following information:
(A) With respect to any transaction during the quarter in a Covered Security in which the Access Person had any direct or indirect beneficial ownership:
(
1
) The date of the transaction, the title, the interest rate and maturity date (if applicable), the number of shares and the principal amount of each Covered Security involved;
(
2
) The nature of the transaction (i.e., purchase, sale or any other type of acquisition or disposition);
(
3
) The price of the Covered Security at which the transaction was effected;
(
4
) The name of the broker, dealer or bank with or through which the transaction was effected; and
(
5
) The date that the report is submitted by the Access Person.
(B) With respect to any account established by the Access Person in which any securities were held during the quarter for the direct or indirect benefit of the Access Person:
(
1
) The name of the broker, dealer or bank with whom the Access Person established the account;
(
2
) The date the account was established; and
(
3
) The date that the report is submitted by the Access Person.
(iii)
Annual Holdings Reports.
Annually, the following information (which information must be current as of a date no more than 45 days before the report is submitted):
(A) The title, number of shares and principal amount of each Covered Security in which the Access Person had any direct or indirect beneficial ownership;
(B) The name of any broker, dealer or bank with whom the Access Person maintains an account in which any securities are held for the direct or indirect benefit of the Access Person; and
(C) The date that the report is submitted by the Access Person.
(2)
Exceptions from reporting requirements.
(i) A person need not make a report under paragraph (d)(1) of this section with respect to transactions effected for, and Covered Securities held in, any account over which the person has no direct or indirect influence or control.
(ii) A director of a Fund who is not an “interested person” of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(19)], and who would be required to make a report solely by reason of being a Fund director, need not make:
(A) An initial holdings report under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section and an annual holdings report under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section; and
(B) A quarterly transaction report under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, unless the director knew or, in the ordinary course of fulfilling his or her official duties as a Fund director, should have known that during the 15-day period immediately before or after the director's transaction in a Covered Security, the Fund purchased or sold the Covered Security, or the Fund or its investment adviser considered purchasing or selling the Covered Security.
(iii) An Access Person to a Fund's principal underwriter need not make a report to the principal underwriter under paragraph (d)(1) of this section if:
(A) The principal underwriter is not an affiliated person of the Fund (unless the Fund is a unit investment trust) or any investment adviser of the Fund; and
(B) The principal underwriter has no officer, director or general partner who serves as an officer, director or general partner of the Fund or of any investment adviser of the Fund.
(iv) An Access Person to an investment adviser need not make a separate report to the investment adviser under paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the extent the information in the report would duplicate information required to be recorded under § 275.204-2(a)(13) of this chapter.
(v) An Access Person need not make a quarterly transaction report under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section if the report would duplicate information contained in broker trade confirmations or account statements received by the Fund, investment adviser or principal underwriter with respect to the Access Person in the time period required by paragraph (d)(1)(ii), if all of the information required by that paragraph is contained in the broker trade confirmations or account statements, or in the records of the Fund, investment adviser or principal underwriter.
(vi) An Access Person need not make a quarterly transaction report under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section with respect to transactions effected pursuant to an Automatic Investment Plan.
(3)
Review of reports.
Each Fund, investment adviser and principal underwriter to which reports are required to be made by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must institute procedures by which appropriate management or compliance personnel review these reports.
(4)
Notification of reporting obligation.
Each Fund, investment adviser and principal underwriter to which reports are required to be made by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must identify all Access Persons who are required to make these reports and must inform those Access Persons of their reporting obligation.
(5)
Beneficial ownership.
For purposes of this section, beneficial ownership is interpreted in the same manner as it would be under § 240.16a-1(a)(2) of this chapter in determining whether a person is the beneficial owner of a security for purposes of section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78p] and the rules and regulations thereunder. Any report required by paragraph (d) of this section may contain a statement that the report will not be construed as an admission that the person making the report has any direct or indirect beneficial ownership in the Covered Security to which the report relates.
(e)
Pre-approval of investments in IPOs and limited offerings.
Investment Personnel of a Fund or its investment adviser must obtain approval from the Fund or the Fund's investment adviser before directly or indirectly acquiring beneficial ownership in any securities in an Initial Public Offering or in a Limited Offering.
(f)
Recordkeeping Requirements.
(1) Each Fund, investment adviser and principal underwriter that is required to adopt a code of ethics or to which reports are required to be made by Access Persons must, at its principal place of business, maintain records in the manner and to the extent set out in this paragraph (f), and must make these records available to the Commission or any representative of the Commission at any time and from time to time for reasonable periodic, special or other examination:
(A) A copy of each code of ethics for the organization that is in effect, or at any time within the past five years was in effect, must be maintained in an easily accessible place;
(B) A record of any violation of the code of ethics, and of any action taken as a result of the violation, must be maintained in an easily accessible place for at least five years after the end of the fiscal year in which the violation occurs;
(C) A copy of each report made by an Access Person as required by this section, including any information provided in lieu of the reports under paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section, must be maintained for at least five years after the end of the fiscal year in which the report is made or the information is provided, the first two years in an easily accessible place;
(D) A record of all persons, currently or within the past five years, who are or were required to make reports under paragraph (d) of this section, or who are or were responsible for reviewing these reports, must be maintained in an easily accessible place; and
(E) A copy of each report required by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section must be maintained for at least five years after the end of the fiscal year in which it is made, the first two years in an easily accessible place.
(2) A Fund or investment adviser must maintain a record of any decision, and the reasons supporting the decision, to approve the acquisition by investment personnel of securities under paragraph (e), for at least five years after the end of the fiscal year in which the approval is granted.
[64 FR 46834, Aug. 27, 1999; 65 FR 12943, Mar. 10, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 41707, July 9, 2004; 76 FR 81806, Dec. 29, 2011; 81 FR 83554, Nov. 21, 2016]
§ 270.18c-1
Exemption of privately held indebtedness.
The issuance or sale of more than one class of senior securities representing indebtedness by a small business investment company, licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, shall not be prohibited by section 18(c) so long as such small business investment company does not have outstanding any publicly held indebtedness, and all securities of any such class are (a) privately held by the Small Business Administration, or banks, insurance companies or other institutional investors, (b) not intended to be publicly distributed, and (c) not convertible into, exchangeable for, or accompanied by any option to acquire, any equity security.
[26 FR 11240, Nov. 29, 1961]
§ 270.18c-2
Exemptions of certain debentures issued by small business investment companies.
(a) The issuance or sale of any class of senior security representing indebtedness by a small business investment company licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not be prohibited by section 18(c) of the Act provided such senior security representing indebtedness is (1) not convertible into, exchangeable for, or accompanied by an option to acquire any equity security; (2) fully guaranteed as to timely payment of all principal and interest by the Small Business Administration and backed by the full faith and credit of the United States; and (3) subordinated to any other debt securities not issued pursuant to this section or, if such security is not so subordinated, that such security, according to its own terms, will not be preferred
over any other unsecured debt securities in the payment of principal and interest:
And further provided,
That all other debt securities then outstanding issued by such small business investment company were issued as permitted by § 270.18c-1 or this section.
(b) Any security issued and sold as permitted by paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed for purposes of § 270.18c-1 to be privately held by the Small Business Administration and for purposes of § 270.18c-1 shall not be deemed to be publicly held outstanding indebtedness.
(c) The issuance or sale of any security as permitted by paragraph (a) of this section shall not be deemed to be a sale to any person other than the Small Business Administration by any small business investment company licensed under the Small Business Investment Company Act of 1958 which is exempt from any provision of the Investment Company Act, if such exemption is conditioned on such company not offering or selling its securities to any person other than the Small Business Administration.
(Secs. 6(c), 38(a), 54 Stat. 800, 841, 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-37(a))
[37 FR 7590, Apr. 18, 1972]
§ 270.18f-1
Exemption from certain requirements of section 18(f)(1) (of the Act) for registered open-end investment companies which have the right to redeem in kind.
(a) A registered open-end investment company which has the right to redeem securities of which it is the issuer in assets other than cash may file with the Commission at any time a notification of election on Form N-18F-1 (§ 274.51 of this chapter) committing itself to pay in cash all requests for redemption by any shareholder of record, limited in amount with respect to each shareholder during any 90-day period to the lesser of
(1) $250,000 or
(2) 1 percent of the net asset value of such company at the beginning of such period.
(b) An election pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Shall be described in either the prospectus or the Statement of Additional Information, at the discretion of the investment company, and
(2) Shall be irrevocable while this § 270.18f-1 is in effect unless the Commission by order upon application permits the withdrawal of such notification of election as being appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors.
(c) Upon making the election described in paragraph (a) of this section, an investment company shall be exempt from the requirements of section 18(f)(1) (of the Act) to the extent necessary for such company to effectuate redemptions in the manner set forth in such paragraph.
(Secs. 7, 10, and 19 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77g, 77j, and 77s) and secs. 8, 30 and 38 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8, 80a-29 and 80a-37))
[36 FR 11919, June 23, 1971, as amended at 48 FR 37940, Aug. 22, 1983]
§ 270.18f-2
Fair and equitable treatment for holders of each class or series of stock of series investment companies.
(a) For purposes of this § 270.18f-2 a series company is a registered open-end investment company which, in accordance with the provisions of section 18(f)(2) of the Act, issues two or more classes or series of preferred or special stock each of which is preferred over all other classes or series in respect of assets specifically allocated to that class or series. Any matter required to be submitted by the provisions of the Act or of applicable State law, or otherwise, to the holders of the outstanding voting securities of a series company shall not be deemed to have been effectively acted upon less approved by the holders of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of each class or series of stock affected by such matter.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this § 270.18f-2, a class or series of stock will be deemed to be affected by such a matter, unless (1) the interests of each class or series in the matter are substantially identical, or (2) the matter does not affect any interest of such class or series.
(c)(1) With respect to the submission of an investment advisory contract to the holders of the outstanding voting
securities of a series company for the approval required by section 15(a) of the Act, such matter shall be deemed to be effectively acted upon with respect to any class or series of securities of such company if a majority of the outstanding voting securities of such class or series vote for the approval of such matter, notwithstanding (i) that such matter has not been approved by the holders of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of any other class or series affected by such matter, and (ii) that such matter has not been approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of such company, provided that if such a majority is required by State law or otherwise, such requirement shall apply.
(2) If any class or series of securities of a series company fails to approve an investment advisory contract in the manner required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the investment adviser of such company may continue to serve or act in such capacity for the period of time pending such required approval of such contract, of a new contract with the same or different adviser, or other definitive action:
Provided,
That the compensation received by such investment adviser during such period is equal to no more than its actual costs incurred in furnishing investment advisory services to such class or series or the amount it would have received under the advisory contract, whichever is less.
(d) With respect to the submission of a change in investment policy to the holders of the outstanding voting securities of a series company for the approval required by section 13 of the Act, such matter shall be deemed to have been effectively acted upon with respect to any class or series of such company if a majority of the outstanding voting securities of such class or series vote for the approval of such matter, notwithstanding (1) that such matter has not been approved by the holders of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of any other class or series affected by such matter, and (2) that such matter has not been approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of such company:
Provided,
That if such a majority is required by State law or otherwise, such requirement shall apply.
(e) The submission to shareholders of the selection of the independent public accountant of a series company required by section 32(a) (of the Act) shall be exempt from the separate voting requirements of paragraph (a) of this § 270.18f-2.
(f) The submission to shareholders of a contract with a principal underwriter of a series company required by section 15(b) of the Act shall be exempt from the separate voting requirements of paragraph (a) of this § 270.18f-2.
(g) The submission to shareholders of nominees for election as directors required by section 16(a) of the Act shall be exempt from the separate voting requirements of paragraph (a) of this § 270.18f-2.
(h) For the purposes of this § 270.18f-2 a “majority of the outstanding voting securities” of a class or series, (1) when used with respect to a matter required by any provision of the Act to be submitted to the outstanding voting securities of a series company, shall have the same meaning as a “majority of the outstanding voting securities of a company” as defined in section 2(a)(42) of the Act; and (2) when used with respect to any other matter required to be submitted to the outstanding voting securities of a series company, shall mean the lesser of (i) the minimum vote of the outstanding voting securities of a company required by applicable State law or other applicable requirement, or (ii) the minimum vote specified by paragraph (1) of this paragraph (h), unless State law requires approval of such matters by a specified percentage of the outstanding voting securities of a particular class or series, in which case, State law shall apply.
(Secs. 6(c), 13, 15(a), 15(b), 16(a), 18(f)(2), 32(a), 54 Stat. 800, 811, 812, 813, 817, 838, 841, 15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-13, 80a-15(b), 80a-16(a), 80a-18(f)(2), 80a-31(a), 80a-37(a), Pub. L. 91-547, 84 Stat. 1421)
[37 FR 17386, Aug. 26, 1972]
§ 270.18f-3
Multiple class companies.
Notwithstanding sections 18(f)(1) and 18(i) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(f)(1) and (i), respectively), a registered
open-end management investment company or series or class thereof established in accordance with section 18(f)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(f)(2)) whose shares are registered on Form N-1A [§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter] (“company”) may issue more than one class of voting stock,
provided
that:
(a) Each class:
(1)(i) Shall have a different arrangement for shareholder services or the distribution of securities or both, and shall pay all of the expenses of that arrangement;
(ii) May pay a different share of other expenses, not including advisory or custodial fees or other expenses related to the management of the company's assets, if these expenses are actually incurred in a different amount by that class, or if the class receives services of a different kind or to a different degree than other classes; and
(iii) May pay a different advisory fee to the extent that any difference in amount paid is the result of the application of the same performance fee provisions in the advisory contract of the company to the different investment performance of each class;
(2) Shall have exclusive voting rights on any matter submitted to shareholders that relates solely to its arrangement;
(3) Shall have separate voting rights on any matter submitted to shareholders in which the interests of one class differ from the interests of any other class; and
(4) Shall have in all other respects the same rights and obligations as each other class.
(b) Expenses may be waived or reimbursed by the company's adviser, underwriter, or any other provider of services to the company.
(c)(1) Income, realized gains and losses, unrealized appreciation and depreciation, and Fundwide Expenses shall be allocated based on one of the following methods (which method shall be applied on a consistent basis):
(i) To each class based on the net assets of that class in relation to the net assets of the company (“relative net assets”);
(ii) To each class based on the Simultaneous Equations Method;
(iii) To each class based on the Settled Shares Method,
provided that
the company is a Daily Dividend Fund (such a company may allocate income and Fundwide Expenses based on the Settled Shares Method and realized gains and losses and unrealized appreciation and depreciation based on relative net assets);
(iv) To each share without regard to class,
provided that
the company is a Daily Dividend Fund that maintains the same net asset value per share in each class; that the company has received undertakings from its adviser, underwriter, or any other provider of services to the company, agreeing to waive or reimburse the company for payments to such service provider by one or more classes, as allocated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, to the extent necessary to assure that all classes of the company maintain the same net asset value per share; and that payments waived or reimbursed under such an undertaking may not be carried forward or recouped at a future date; or
(v) To each class based on any other appropriate method,
provided that
a majority of the directors of the company, and a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the company, determine that the method is fair to the shareholders of each class and that the annualized rate of return of each class will generally differ from that of the other classes only by the expense differentials among the classes.
(2) For purposes of this section:
(i)
Daily Dividend Fund
means any company that has a policy of declaring distributions of net income daily, including any money market fund that operates in compliance with § 270.2a-7;
(ii)
Fundwide Expenses
means expenses of the company not allocated to a particular class under paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(iii) The
Settled Shares Method
means allocating to each class based on relative net assets, excluding the value of subscriptions receivable; and
(iv) The
Simultaneous Equations Method
means the simultaneous allocation to each class of each day's income, realized gains and losses, unrealized appreciation and depreciation, and
Fundwide Expenses and reallocation to each class of undistributed net investment income, undistributed realized gains or losses, and unrealized appreciation or depreciation, based on the operating results of the company, changes in ownership interests of each class, and expense differentials between the classes, so that the annualized rate of return of each class generally differs from that of the other classes only by the expense differentials among the classes.
(d) Any payments made under paragraph (a) of this section shall be made pursuant to a written plan setting forth the separate arrangement and expense allocation of each class, and any related conversion features or exchange privileges. Before the first issuance of a share of any class in reliance upon this section, and before any material amendment of a plan, a majority of the directors of the company, and a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the company, shall find that the plan as proposed to be adopted or amended, including the expense allocation, is in the best interests of each class individually and the company as a whole; initial board approval of a plan under this paragraph (d) is not required, however, if the plan does not make any change in the arrangements and expense allocations previously approved by the board under an existing order of exemption. Before any vote on the plan, the directors shall request and evaluate, and any agreement relating to a class arrangement shall require the parties thereto to furnish, such information as may be reasonably necessary to evaluate the plan.
(e) The board of directors of the investment company satisfies the fund governance standards defined in § 270.0-1(a)(7).
(f) Nothing in this section prohibits a company from offering any class with:
(1) An exchange privilege providing that securities of the class may be exchanged for certain securities of another company; or
(2) A conversion feature providing that shares of one class of the company (the “purchase class”) will be exchanged automatically for shares of another class of the company (the “target class”) after a specified period of time,
provided that:
(i) The conversion is effected on the basis of the relative net asset values of the two classes without the imposition of any sales load, fee, or other charge;
(ii) The expenses, including payments authorized under a plan adopted pursuant to § 270.12b-1 (“rule 12b-1 plan”), for the target class are not higher than the expenses, including payments authorized under a rule 12b-1 plan, for the purchase class; and
(iii) If the shareholders of the target class approve any increase in expenses allocated to the target class under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and the purchase class shareholders do not approve the increase, the company will establish a new target class for the purchase class on the same terms as applied to the target class before that increase.
(3) A conversion feature providing that shares of a class in which an investor is no longer eligible to participate may be converted to shares of a class in which that investor is eligible to participate,
provided that:
(i) The investor is given prior notice of the proposed conversion; and
(ii) The conversion is effected on the basis of the relative net asset values of the two classes without the imposition of any sales load, fee, or other charge.
[60 FR 11885, Mar. 2, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 51765, Oct. 3, 1997; 66 FR 3759, Jan. 16, 2001; 69 FR 46390, Aug. 2, 2004; 79 FR 47967, Aug. 14, 2014]
§ 270.18f-4
Exemption from the requirements of section 18 and section 61 for certain senior securities transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Absolute VaR test
means that the VaR of the fund's portfolio does not exceed 20% of the value of the fund's net assets, or in the case of a closed-end company that has issued to investors and has then outstanding shares of a class of senior security that is a stock, that the VaR of the fund's portfolio does not exceed 25% of the value of the fund's net assets.
Derivatives exposure
means the sum of the gross notional amounts of the
fund's derivatives transactions described in paragraph (1) of the definition of the term “derivatives transaction” of this section, and in the case of short sale borrowings, the value of the assets sold short. If a fund's derivatives transactions include reverse repurchase agreements or similar financing transactions under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the fund's derivatives exposure also includes, for each transaction, the proceeds received but not yet repaid or returned, or for which the associated liability has not been extinguished, in connection with the transaction. In determining derivatives exposure a fund may convert the notional amount of interest rate derivatives to 10-year bond equivalents and delta adjust the notional amounts of options contracts and exclude any closed-out positions, if those positions were closed out with the same counterparty and result in no credit or market exposure to the fund.
Derivatives risk manager
means an officer or officers of the fund's investment adviser responsible for administering the program and policies and procedures required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, provided that the derivatives risk manager:
(1) May not be a portfolio manager of the fund, or if multiple officers serve as derivatives risk manager, may not have a majority composed of portfolio managers of the fund; and
(2) Must have relevant experience regarding the management of derivatives risk.
Derivatives risks
means the risks associated with a fund's derivatives transactions or its use of derivatives transactions, including leverage, market, counterparty, liquidity, operational, and legal risks and any other risks the derivatives risk manager (or, in the case of a fund that is a limited derivatives user as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the fund's investment adviser) deems material.
Derivatives transaction
means:
(1) Any swap, security-based swap, futures contract, forward contract, option, any combination of the foregoing, or any similar instrument (“derivatives instrument”), under which a fund is or may be required to make any payment or delivery of cash or other assets during the life of the instrument or at maturity or early termination, whether as margin or settlement payment or otherwise;
(2) Any short sale borrowing; and
(3) If a fund relies on paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, any reverse repurchase agreement or similar financing transaction.
Designated index
means an unleveraged index that is approved by the derivatives risk manager for purposes of the relative VaR test and that reflects the markets or asset classes in which the fund invests and is not administered by an organization that is an affiliated person of the fund, its investment adviser, or principal underwriter, or created at the request of the fund or its investment adviser, unless the index is widely recognized and used. In the case of a blended index, none of the indexes that compose the blended index may be administered by an organization that is an affiliated person of the fund, its investment adviser, or principal underwriter, or created at the request of the fund or its investment adviser, unless the index is widely recognized and used.
Designated reference portfolio
means a designated index or the fund's securities portfolio. Notwithstanding the first sentence of the definition of
designated index
of this section, if the fund's investment objective is to track the performance (including a leverage multiple or inverse multiple) of an unleveraged index, the fund must use that index as its designated reference portfolio.
Fund
means a registered open-end or closed-end company or a business development company, including any separate series thereof, but does not include a registered open-end company that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7.
Leveraged/inverse fund
means a fund that seeks, directly or indirectly, to provide investment returns that correspond to the performance of a market index by a specified multiple (“leverage multiple”), or to provide investment returns that have an inverse relationship to the performance of a market index (“inverse multiple”), over a predetermined period of time.
Relative VaR test
means that the VaR of the fund's portfolio does not exceed 200% of the VaR of the designated reference portfolio, or in the case of a closed-end company that has issued to investors and has then outstanding shares of a class of senior security that is a stock, that the VaR of the fund's portfolio does not exceed 250% of the VaR of the designated reference portfolio.
Securities portfolio
means the fund's portfolio of securities and other investments, excluding any derivatives transactions, that is approved by the derivatives risk manager for purposes of the relative VaR test, provided that the fund's securities portfolio reflects the markets or asset classes in which the fund invests (
i.e.,
the markets or asset classes in which the fund invests directly through securities and other investments and indirectly through derivatives transactions).
Unfunded commitment agreement
means a contract that is not a derivatives transaction, under which a fund commits, conditionally or unconditionally, to make a loan to a company or to invest equity in a company in the future, including by making a capital commitment to a private fund that can be drawn at the discretion of the fund's general partner.
Value-at-risk
or
VaR
means an estimate of potential losses on an instrument or portfolio, expressed as a percentage of the value of the portfolio's assets (or net assets when computing a fund's VaR), over a specified time horizon and at a given confidence level, provided that any VaR model used by a fund for purposes of determining the fund's compliance with the relative VaR test or the absolute VaR test must:
(1) Take into account and incorporate all significant, identifiable market risk factors associated with a fund's investments, including, as applicable:
(i) Equity price risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk;
(ii) Material risks arising from the nonlinear price characteristics of a fund's investments, including options and positions with embedded optionality; and
(iii) The sensitivity of the market value of the fund's investments to changes in volatility;
(2) Use a 99% confidence level and a time horizon of 20 trading days; and
(3) Be based on at least three years of historical market data.
(b)
Derivatives transactions.
If a fund satisfies the conditions of paragraph (c) of this section, the fund may enter into derivatives transactions, notwithstanding the requirements of sections 18(a)(1), 18(c), 18(f)(1), and 61 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(a)(1), 80a-18(c), 80a-18(f)(1), and 80a-60), and derivatives transactions entered into by the fund in compliance with this section will not be considered for purposes of computing asset coverage, as defined in section 18(h) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(h)).
(c)
Conditions
—(1)
Derivatives risk management program.
The fund adopts and implements a written derivatives risk management program (“program”), which must include policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to manage the fund's derivatives risks and to reasonably segregate the functions associated with the program from the portfolio management of the fund. The program must include the following elements:
(i)
Risk identification and assessment.
The program must provide for the identification and assessment of the fund's derivatives risks. This assessment must take into account the fund's derivatives transactions and other investments.
(ii)
Risk guidelines.
The program must provide for the establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of investment, risk management, or related guidelines that provide for quantitative or otherwise measurable criteria, metrics, or thresholds of the fund's derivatives risks. These guidelines must specify levels of the given criterion, metric, or threshold that the fund does not normally expect to exceed, and measures to be taken if they are exceeded.
(iii)
Stress testing.
The program must provide for stress testing to evaluate potential losses to the fund's portfolio in response to extreme but plausible market changes or changes in market
risk factors that would have a significant adverse effect on the fund's portfolio, taking into account correlations of market risk factors and resulting payments to derivatives counterparties. The frequency with which the stress testing under this paragraph is conducted must take into account the fund's strategy and investments and current market conditions, provided that these stress tests must be conducted no less frequently than weekly.
(iv)
Backtesting.
The program must provide for backtesting to be conducted no less frequently than weekly, of the results of the VaR calculation model used by the fund in connection with the relative VaR test or the absolute VaR test by comparing the fund's gain or loss that occurred on each business day during the backtesting period with the corresponding VaR calculation for that day, estimated over a one-trading day time horizon, and identifying as an exception any instance in which the fund experiences a loss exceeding the corresponding VaR calculation's estimated loss.
(v)
Internal reporting and escalation
—(A)
Internal reporting.
The program must identify the circumstances under which persons responsible for portfolio management will be informed regarding the operation of the program, including exceedances of the guidelines specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section and the results of the stress tests specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(B)
Escalation of material risks.
The derivatives risk manager must inform in a timely manner persons responsible for portfolio management of the fund, and also directly inform the fund's board of directors as appropriate, of material risks arising from the fund's derivatives transactions, including risks identified by the fund's exceedance of a criterion, metric, or threshold provided for in the fund's risk guidelines established under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section or by the stress testing described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
(vi)
Periodic review of the program.
The derivatives risk manager must review the program at least annually to evaluate the program's effectiveness and to reflect changes in risk over time. The periodic review must include a review of the VaR calculation model used by the fund under paragraph (c)(2) of this section (including the backtesting required by paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section) and any designated reference portfolio to evaluate whether it remains appropriate.
(2)
Limit on fund leverage risk.
(i) The fund must comply with the relative VaR test unless the derivatives risk manager reasonably determines that a designated reference portfolio would not provide an appropriate reference portfolio for purposes of the relative VaR test, taking into account the fund's investments, investment objectives, and strategy. A fund that does not apply the relative VaR test must comply with the absolute VaR test.
(ii) The fund must determine its compliance with the applicable VaR test at least once each business day. If the fund determines that it is not in compliance with the applicable VaR test, the fund must come back into compliance promptly after such determination, in a manner that is in the best interests of the fund and its shareholders.
(iii) If the fund is not in compliance with the applicable VaR test within five business days:
(A) The derivatives risk manager must provide a written report to the fund's board of directors and explain how and by when (
i.e.,
number of business days) the derivatives risk manager reasonably expects that the fund will come back into compliance;
(B) The derivatives risk manager must analyze the circumstances that caused the fund to be out of compliance for more than five business days and update any program elements as appropriate to address those circumstances; and
(C) The derivatives risk manager must provide a written report within thirty calendar days of the exceedance to the fund's board of directors explaining how the fund came back into compliance and the results of the analysis and updates required under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section. If the fund remains out of compliance with the applicable VaR test at that time, the derivatives risk manager's written report
must update the report previously provided under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section and the derivatives risk manager must update the board of directors on the fund's progress in coming back into compliance at regularly scheduled intervals at a frequency determined by the board.
(3)
Board oversight and reporting
—(i)
Approval of the derivatives risk manager.
A fund's board of directors, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the fund, must approve the designation of the derivatives risk manager.
(ii)
Reporting on program implementation and effectiveness.
On or before the implementation of the program, and at least annually thereafter, the derivatives risk manager must provide to the board of directors a written report providing a representation that the program is reasonably designed to manage the fund's derivatives risks and to incorporate the elements provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section. The representation may be based on the derivatives risk manager's reasonable belief after due inquiry. The written report must include the basis for the representation along with such information as may be reasonably necessary to evaluate the adequacy of the fund's program and, for reports following the program's initial implementation, the effectiveness of its implementation. The written report also must include, as applicable, the derivatives risk manager's basis for the approval of any designated reference portfolio or any change in the designated reference portfolio during the period covered by the report; or an explanation of the basis for the derivatives risk manager's determination that a designated reference portfolio would not provide an appropriate reference portfolio for purposes of the relative VaR test.
(iii)
Regular board reporting.
The derivatives risk manager must provide to the board of directors, at a frequency determined by the board, a written report regarding the derivatives risk manager's analysis of exceedances described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the results of the stress testing conducted under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, and the results of the backtesting conducted under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section since the last report to the board. Each report under this paragraph must include such information as may be reasonably necessary for the board of directors to evaluate the fund's response to exceedances and the results of the fund's stress testing.
(4)
Limited derivatives users.
(i) A fund is not required to adopt a program as prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, comply with the limit on fund leverage risk in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, or comply with the board oversight and reporting requirements as prescribed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if:
(A) The fund adopts and implements written policies and procedures reasonably designed to manage the fund's derivatives risk; and
(B) The fund's derivatives exposure does not exceed 10 percent of the fund's net assets, excluding, for this purpose, currency or interest rate derivatives that hedge currency or interest rate risks associated with one or more specific equity or fixed-income investments held by the fund (which must be foreign-currency-denominated in the case of currency derivatives), or the fund's borrowings, provided that the currency or interest rate derivatives are entered into and maintained by the fund for hedging purposes and that the notional amounts of such derivatives do not exceed the value of the hedged investments (or the par value thereof, in the case of fixed-income investments, or the principal amount, in the case of borrowing) by more than 10 percent.
(ii) If a fund's derivatives exposure exceeds 10 percent of its net assets, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section, and the fund is not in compliance with that paragraph within five business days, the fund's investment adviser must provide a written report to the fund's board of directors informing them whether the investment adviser intends either:
(A) To reduce the fund's derivatives exposure to less than 10 percent of the fund's net assets promptly, but within no more than thirty calendar days of the exceedance, in a manner that is in
the best interests of the fund and its shareholders; or
(B) For the fund to establish a program as prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, comply with the limit on fund leverage risk in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and comply with the board oversight and reporting requirements as prescribed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, as soon as reasonably practicable.
(5)
Leveraged/inverse funds.
A leveraged/inverse fund that cannot comply with the limit on fund leverage risk in paragraph (c) of this section is not required to comply with the limit on fund leverage risk if, in addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this section:
(i) As of October 28, 2020, the fund is in operation; has outstanding shares issued in one or more public offerings to investors; and discloses in its prospectus a leverage multiple or inverse multiple that exceeds 200% of the performance or the inverse of the performance of the underlying index;
(ii) The fund does not change the underlying market index or increase the level of leveraged or inverse market exposure the fund seeks, directly or indirectly, to provide; and
(iii) The fund discloses in its prospectus that it is not subject to the limit on fund leverage risk in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(6)
Recordkeeping
—(i)
Records to be maintained.
A fund must maintain a written record documenting, as applicable:
(A) The fund's written policies and procedures required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, along with:
(
1
) The results of the fund's stress tests under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section;
(
2
) The results of the backtesting conducted under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section;
(
3
) Records documenting any internal reporting or escalation of material risks under paragraph (c)(1)(v)(B) of this section; and
(
4
) Records documenting the reviews conducted under paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section.
(B) Copies of any materials provided to the board of directors in connection with its approval of the designation of the derivatives risk manager, any written reports provided to the board of directors relating to the program, and any written reports provided to the board of directors under paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) and (C) of this section.
(C) Any determination and/or action the fund made under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, including a fund's determination of: The VaR of its portfolio; the VaR of the fund's designated reference portfolio, as applicable; the fund's VaR ratio (the value of the VaR of the fund's portfolio divided by the VaR of the designated reference portfolio), as applicable; and any updates to any VaR calculation models used by the fund and the basis for any material changes thereto.
(D) If applicable, the fund's written policies and procedures required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section, along with copies of any written reports provided to the board of directors under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Retention periods.
(A) A fund must maintain a copy of the written policies and procedures that the fund adopted under paragraph (c)(1) or (4) of this section that are in effect, or at any time within the past five years were in effect, in an easily accessible place.
(B) A fund must maintain all records and materials that paragraphs (c)(6)(i)(A)(
1
) through (
4
) and (c)(6)(i)(B) through (D) of this section describe for a period of not less than five years (the first two years in an easily accessible place) following each determination, action, or review that these paragraphs describe.
(7)
Current reports.
A fund that experiences an event specified in the parts of Form N-RN [referenced in 17 CFR 274.223] titled “Relative VaR Test Breaches,” “Absolute VaR Test Breaches,” or “Compliance with VaR Test” must file with the Commission a report on Form N-RN within the period and according to the instructions specified in that form.
(d)
Reverse repurchase agreements.
(1) A fund may enter into reverse repurchase agreements or similar financing transactions, notwithstanding the requirements of sections 18(c) and 18(f)(1) of the Investment Company Act, if the fund:
(i) Complies with the asset coverage requirements of section 18, and combines the aggregate amount of indebtedness associated with all reverse repurchase agreements or similar financing transactions with the aggregate amount of any other senior securities representing indebtedness when calculating the asset coverage ratio; or
(ii) Treats all reverse repurchase agreements or similar financing transactions as derivatives transactions for all purposes under this section.
(2) A fund relying on paragraph (d) of this section must maintain a written record documenting whether the fund is relying on paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section for a period of not less than five years (the first two years in an easily accessible place) following the determination.
(e)
Unfunded commitment agreements.
(1) A fund may enter into an unfunded commitment agreement, notwithstanding the requirements of sections 18(a), 18(c), 18(f)(1), and 61 of the Investment Company Act, if the fund reasonably believes, at the time it enters into such agreement, that it will have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to meet its obligations with respect to all of its unfunded commitment agreements, in each case as they come due. In forming a reasonable belief, the fund must take into account its reasonable expectations with respect to other obligations (including any obligation with respect to senior securities or redemptions), and may not take into account cash that may become available from the sale or disposition of any investment at a price that deviates significantly from the market value of those investments, or from issuing additional equity. Unfunded commitment agreements entered into by the fund in compliance with this section will not be considered for purposes of computing asset coverage, as defined in section 18(h) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(h)).
(2) For each unfunded commitment agreement that a fund enters into under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a fund must document the basis for its reasonable belief regarding the sufficiency of its cash and cash equivalents to meet its unfunded commitment agreement obligations, and maintain a record of this documentation for a period of not less than five years (the first two years in an easily accessible place) following the date that the fund entered into the agreement.
(f)
When issued, forward-settling, and non-standard settlement cycle securities transactions.
Notwithstanding the requirements of sections 18(a)(1), 18(c), 18(f)(1), and 61 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(a)(1), 80a018(c), 80a-18(f)(1), and 80a-60), a fund or registered open-end company that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 may invest in a security on a when-issued or forward-settling basis, or with a non-standard settlement cycle, and the transaction will be deemed not to involve a senior security, provided that: The fund intends to physically settle the transaction; and the transaction will settle within 35 days of its trade date.
[85 FR 83291, Dec. 21, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 22446, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 270.19a-1
Written statement to accompany dividend payments by management companies.
(a) Every written statement made pursuant to section 19 by or on behalf of a management company shall be made on a separate paper and shall clearly indicate what portion of the payment per share is made from the following sources:
(1) Net income for the current or preceding fiscal year, or accumulated undistributed net income, or both, not including in either case profits or losses from the sale of securities or other properties.
(2) Accumulated undistributed net profits from the sale of securities or other properties (except that an open-end company may treat as a separate source its net profits from such sales during its current fiscal year).
(3) Paid-in surplus or other capital source.
To the extent that a payment is properly designated as being made from a source specified in paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section, it need not be designated as having been made from a source specified in this paragraph.
(b) If the payment is made in whole or in part from a source specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section the
written statement shall indicate, after giving effect to the part of such payment so specified, the deficit, if any, in the aggregate of (1) accumulated undistributed realized profits less losses on the sale of securities or other properties and (2) the net unrealized appreciation or depreciation of portfolio securities, all as of a date reasonably close to the end of the period as of which the dividend is paid. Any statement made pursuant to the preceding sentence shall specify the amount, if any, of such deficit which represents unrealized depreciation of portfolio securities.
(c) Accumulated undistributed net income and accumulated undistributed net profits from the sale of securities or other properties shall be determined, at the option of the company, either (1) from the date of the organization of the company, (2) from the date of a reorganization, as defined in clause (A) or (B) of section 2(a)(33) of the Act (54 Stat. 790; 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(33)), (3) from the date as of which a write-down of portfolio securities was made in connection with a corporate readjustment, approved by stockholders, of the type known as “quasi- reorganization,” or (4) from January 1, 1925, to the close of the period as of which the dividend is paid, without giving effect to such payment.
(d) For the purpose of this section, open-end companies which upon the sale of their shares allocate to undistributed income or other similar account that portion of the consideration received which represents the approximate per share amount of undistributed net income included in the sales price, and make a corresponding deduction from undistributed net income upon the purchase or redemption of shares, need not treat the amounts so allocated as paid-in surplus or other capital source.
(e) For the purpose of this section, the source or sources from which a dividend is paid shall be determined (or reasonably estimated) to the close of the period as of which it is paid without giving effect to such payment. If any such estimate is subsequently ascertained to be inaccurate in a significant amount, a correction thereof shall be made by a written statement pursuant to section 19(a) of the Act or in the first report to stockholders following discovery of the inaccuracy.
(f) Insofar as a written statement made pursuant to section 19(a) of the Act relates to a dividend on preferred stock paid for a period of less than a year, a company may elect to indicate only that portion of the payment which is made from sources specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and need not specify the sources from which the remainder was paid. Every company which in any fiscal year elects to make a statement pursuant to the preceding sentence shall transmit to the holders of such preferred stock, at a date reasonably near the end of the last dividend period in such fiscal year, a statement meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section on an annual basis.
(g) The purpose of this section, in the light of which it shall be construed, is to afford security holders adequate disclosure of the sources from which dividend payments are made. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the inclusion in any written statement of additional information in explanation of the information required by this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit a dividend payment in violation of any State law or to prevent compliance with any requirement of State law regarding dividends consistent with this rule.

# Cross Reference:
For interpretative release applicable to § 270.19a-1, see No. 71 in tabulation, part 271 of this chapter.
[Rule N-19-1, 6 FR 1114, Feb. 25, 1941. Redesignated at 36 FR 22901, Dec. 2, 1971, and amended at 38 FR 8593, Apr. 4, 1973]
§ 270.19b-1
Frequency of distribution of capital gains.
(a) No registered investment company which is a “regulated investment company” as defined in section 851 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“Code”) shall distribute more than one capital gain dividend (“distribution”), as defined in section 852(b)(3)(C) of the Code, with respect to any one taxable year of the company, other than a distribution otherwise permitted by this rule or made pursuant
to section 855 of the Code which is supplemental to the prior distribution with respect to the same taxable year of the company and which does not exceed 10% of the aggregate amount distributed for such taxable year.
(b) No registered investment company which is not a “regulated investment company” as defined in section 851 of the Code shall make more than one distribution of long-term capital gains, as defined in the Code, in any one taxable year of the company:
Provided,
That a unit investment trust may distribute capital gain dividends received from a “regulated investment company” within a reasonable time after receipt.
(c) The provisions of this rule shall not apply to a unit investment trust (hereinafter referred to as the “Trust”) engaged exclusively in the business of investing in eligible trust securities (as defined in Rule 14a-3(b) (17 CFR 270.14a-3(b)) under this Act);
Provided,
That:
(1) The capital gain distribution is a result of—
(i) An issuer's calling or redeeming an eligible trust security held by the Trust,
(ii) The sale of an eligible trust security by the Trust to provide funds for redemption of Trust units when the amount received by the Trust for such sale exceeds the amount required to satisfy the redemption distribution,
(iii) The sale of an eligible trust security to maintain qualification of the Trust as a “regulated investment company” under section 851 of the Code,
(iv) Regular distributions of principal and prepayment of principal on eligible trust securities, or
(v) The sale of an eligible trust security in order to maintain the investment stability of the Trust; and
(2) Capital gains distributions are clearly described as such in a report to the unitholder which accompanies each such distribution.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, sales made to maintain the investment stability of the Trust means sales made to prevent deterioration of the value of the eligible trust securities held in the Trust portfolio when one or more of the following factors exist:
(1) A default in the payment of principal or interest on an eligible trust security;
(2) An action involving the issuer of an eligible trust security which adversely affects the ability of such issuer to continue payment of principal or interest on its eligible trust securities; or
(3) A change in market, revenue or credit factors which adversely affects the ability of such issuer to continue payment of principal or interest on its eligible trust securities.
(e) If a registered investment company because of unforeseen circumstances in a particular taxable year proposes to make a distribution which would be prohibited by the provisions of this section, it may file a request with the Commission for authorization to make such a distribution. Such request shall comply with the requirements of § 270.0-2 of this chapter and shall set forth the pertinent facts and explain the circumstances which the company believes justify such distribution. The request shall be deemed granted unless the Commission within 15 days after receipt thereof shall deny such request as not being necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors and notify the company in writing of such denial.
(f) A registered investment company may make one additional distribution of long-term capital gains, as defined in the Code, with respect to any one taxable year of the company, which distribution is made, in whole or in part, for the purpose of not incurring any tax under section 4982 of the Code. Such additional distribution may be made prior or subsequent to any distribution otherwise permitted by paragraph (a) of this section.
(Secs. 6(c), 19(b) (15 U.S.C. 80a-19(b), and sec. 38(a)))
[36 FR 22901, Dec. 2, 1971, as amended at 44 FR 29647, May 22, 1979; 44 FR 40064, July 9, 1979; 52 FR 42428, Nov. 5, 1987]
§ 270.20a-1
Solicitation of proxies, consents and authorizations.
(a) No person shall solicit or permit the use of his or her name to solicit any proxy, consent, or authorization with respect to any security issued by
a registered fund, except upon compliance with Regulation 14A (§ 240.14a-1 of this chapter), Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter), and all other rules and regulations adopted pursuant to section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that would be applicable to such solicitation if it were made in respect of a security registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Unless the solicitation is made in respect of a security registered on a national securities exchange, none of the soliciting material need be filed with such exchange.
(b) If the solicitation is made by or on behalf of the management of the investment company, then the investment adviser or any prospective investment adviser and any affiliated person thereof as to whom information is required in the solicitation shall upon request of the investment company promptly transmit to the investment company all information necessary to enable the management of such company to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to such solicitation. If the solicitation is made by any person other than the management of the investment company, on behalf of and with the consent of the investment adviser or prospective investment adviser, then the investment adviser or prospective investment adviser and any affiliated person thereof as to whom information is required in the solicitation shall upon request of the person making the solicitation promptly transmit to such person all information necessary to enable such person to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to the solicitation.
Instruction.
Registrants that have made a public offering of securities and that hold security holder votes for which proxies, consents, or authorizations are not being solicited pursuant to the requirements of this section should refer to section 14(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78n(c)) and the information statement requirements set forth in the rules thereunder.
[25 FR 1865, Mar. 3, 1960, as amended at 37 FR 1472, Jan. 29, 1972; 52 FR 48985, Dec. 29, 1987; 57 FR 1102, Jan. 10, 1992; 59 FR 52700, Oct. 19, 1994; 87 FR 22446, Apr. 15, 2022]
§§ 270.20a-2—270.20a-4
[Reserved]
§ 270.22c-1
Pricing of redeemable securities for distribution, redemption and repurchase.
(a) No registered investment company issuing any redeemable security, no person designated in such issuer's prospectus as authorized to consummate transactions in any such security, and no principal underwriter of, or dealer in, any such security shall sell, redeem, or repurchase any such security except at a price based on the current net asset value of such security which is next computed after receipt of a tender of such security for redemption or of an order to purchase or sell such security:
Provided,
That:
(1) This paragraph shall not prevent a sponsor of a unit investment trust (hereinafter referred to as the “Trust”) engaged exclusively in the business of investing in eligible trust securities (as defined in Rule 14a-3(b) (17 CFR 270.14a-3(b))) from selling or repurchasing Trust units in a secondary market at a price based on the offering side evaluation of the eligible trust securities in the Trust's portfolio, determined at any time on the last business day of each week, effective for all sales made during the following week, if on the days that such sales or repurchases are made the sponsor receives a letter from a qualified evaluator stating, in its opinion, that:
(i) In the case of repurchases, the current bid price is not higher than the offering side evaluation, computed on the last business day of the previous week; and
(ii) In the case of resales, the offering side evaluation, computed as of the last business day of the previous week, is not more than one-half of one percent ($5.00 on a unit representing $1,000 principal amount of eligible trust securities) greater than the current offering price.
(2) This paragraph shall not prevent any registered investment company from adjusting the price of its redeemable securities sold pursuant to a merger, consolidation or purchase of substantially all of the assets of a company which meets the conditions specified in § 270.17a-8.
(3) Notwithstanding this paragraph (a), a registered open-end management investment company (but not a registered open-end management investment company that is regulated as a money market fund under § 270.2a-7 or an exchange-traded fund as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(v)(A) of this section) (a “fund”) may use swing pricing to adjust its current net asset value per share to mitigate dilution of the value of its outstanding redeemable securities as a result of shareholder purchase or redemption activity, provided that it has established and implemented swing pricing policies and procedures in compliance with the paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) The fund's swing pricing policies and procedures must:
(A) Provide that the fund must adjust its net asset value per share by a single swing factor or multiple factors that may vary based on the swing threshold(s) crossed once the level of net purchases into or net redemptions from such fund has exceeded the applicable swing threshold for the fund. In determining whether the fund's level of net purchases or net redemptions has exceeded the applicable swing threshold(s), the person(s) responsible for administering swing pricing shall be permitted to make such determination based on receipt of sufficient information about the fund investors' daily purchase and redemption activity (“investor flow”) to allow the fund to reasonably estimate whether it has crossed the swing threshold(s) with high confidence, and shall exclude any purchases or redemptions that are made in kind and not in cash. This investor flow information may consist of individual, aggregated, or netted orders, and may include reasonable estimates where necessary.
(B) Specify the process for how the fund's swing threshold(s) shall be determined, considering:
(1)
The size, frequency, and volatility of historical net purchases or net redemptions of fund shares during normal and stressed periods;
(2)
The fund's investment strategy and the liquidity of the fund's portfolio investments;
(3)
The fund's holdings of cash and cash equivalents, and borrowing arrangements and other funding sources; and
(4)
The costs associated with transactions in the markets in which the fund invests.
