of two pieces of identification bearing his name and signature, one of which shall bear his current home or business address; or
(2) Appearing at any office of the Commission (located at the addresses set forth in § 145.6 of these rules) during the regular working hours for that office and presenting either:
(i) One piece of identification containing a photograph and signature, such as a drivers license or passport or
(ii) Two pieces of identification bearing his name and signature, one of which shall bear his current home or business address; or
(3) Providing such other proof of identity as the Commission deems satisfactory in the circumstances of a particular request.
(b) If the General Counsel or other designated Commission official determines that the data in a requested record is so sensitive that unauthorized access could cause harm or embarrassment to the person whose 71818, produce satisfactory evidence of identity under paragraph (a) of this section, the individual making the request may be required to submit a notarized statement attesting to their identity and that they are familiar with and understand the criminal penalties provided under section 1001 of title 18 of the U.S. Code for making false statements to a Government agency and under the Privacy Act, section 552a(i)(3) of title 5 of the U.S. Code, for obtaining records under false pretenses. Copies of these statutory provisions and forms for such notarized statements may be attained upon request from the FOIA compliance staff in the Office of the General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters and clearly marked “Privacy Act request.
(c) The parent or guardian of a minor or a person judicially determined to be incompetent, in addition to establishing the identity of the person he represents as described in the previous paragraphs of this section, shall establish his own identity and his parentage or guardianship by furnishing a copy of a birth certificate showing parentage or a court order establishing the guardianship.
(d) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from requiring additional identification before granting access to the records if there is reason to believe that the person making the request may not be the individual to whom the record pertains, or where the sensitivity of the data warrants it.
(e) The requirements of this section shall not apply if the records involved would be available to any person pursuant to the Commission's rules under the Freedom of Information Act as set forth in part 145 of this chapter.
[41 FR 3212, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 28260, July 9, 1976; 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71818, Sept. 4, 2024
§ 146.5
Disclosure of requested information to individuals; fee for copies of records.
(a) Any individual who has requested access to his record or to any information pertaining to him in the manner prescribed in § 146.3, and has identified himself as prescribed in § 146.4, shall be permitted to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to him, subject to fees for copying services set forth in appendix A to this part. Upon his request persons of his own choosing may accompany him, but the individual shall first furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of that individual's record in the accompany persons' presence.
(b) Access will generally be granted in the office of the Commission where the records are maintained during normal business hours, but for good cause shown the Commission may grant access at another office of the Commission or at different times for the convenience of the individual making the request.
(c) Where a document containing information about an individual also contains information not pertaining to him, the portion not pertaining to the individual shall not be disclosed to him except to the extent the information is available to any person under the Freedom of Information Act. If the records sought cannot be provided for review and copying in a meaningful form, the Commission shall provide to the individual a report of the information concerning the individual contained in the
record or records which shall be complete and accurate in all material aspects.
(d) Where the disclosure involves medical records, the records may be provided only to a physician designated in writing by the individual.
(e) Requests for copies of documents may be directed to the FOIA compliance staffr to the member of the Commission's staff through whom arrangements for access were made.
(f) Fees for copies of records shall be charged as set forth in the schedule of fees contained in appendix A to this part. Copies of the schedule may be obtained upon request from the FOIA compliance staff in the Office of the General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters and clearly marked “Privacy Act request”.. Payment should be made by check or money order payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Advance payment of all or part of the fee may be required at the discretion of the Commission, but generally this will not be required for requests where the anticipated fee is less than $25.
(g) Nothing in this section or in § 146.3 shall:
(1) Require the disclosure of investigative records exempted under § 146.12 of these rules;
(2) Allow an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action, administrative proceeding or a criminal proceeding;
(3) Require the furnishing of information or records which cannot be retrieved by the name or other identifier of the individual making the request.
[41 FR 3212, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 28261, July 9, 1976; 45 FR 26954, Apr. 22, 1980; 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71818, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 146.6
Disclosure to third parties.
(a) All requests for non-public records shall be made in writing and shall be addressed or otherwise directed to the Office of the General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, Attn: FOIA Request, or electronically via
foiasubmissions@cftc.gov
. Requests for public records directed to a regional office of the Commission pursuant to § 145.2 should be sent to the Eastern Regional Office, Central Regional Office, or Southwestern Regional Office, as applicable.
(a) The Commission shall not disclose to any agency or to any person by any means of communication a record pertaining to an individual which is contained in a system of records, except under the following circumstances:
(1) The individual to whom the record pertains has given his written consent to the disclosure;
(2) The disclosure is to officers and employees of the Commission who need it in the performance of their duties;
(3) Disclosure is required under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);
(4) Disclosure is for a routine use as defined in § 146.2(i) and described in the system notice for that system of records;
(5) The disclosure is made to the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity;
(6) The disclosure is made to a recipient who has provided the agency with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable;
(7) The disclosure is made to another agency or to an instrumentality of any Governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the Commission specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought;
(8) The disclosure is made to a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if upon such disclosure notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual;
(9) The disclosure is made to either House of Congress, or, to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof,
any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee;
(10) The disclosure is made to the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office; or
(11) The disclosure is pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(12) The disclosure is made, upon request, to a department or agency of any state or political subdivision thereof acting within the scope of its jurisdiction as permitted by section 8(e) of the Act and subject to the limitations of further dissemination as contained in section 8(e). Information disclosed pursuant to this paragraph may also include registration information maintained by the Commission on any registrant as authorized to be disclosed by section 8(g) of the Act. Registration information may be furnished to a department or agency of any state or political subdivision thereof upon reasonable request made by the department or agency or without request whenever the Commission or an employee designated by § 140.75 of this chapter determines that such information may be appropriate for use by the department or agency.
(13) The disclosure is made, upon request, to a department or agency of any foreign government or any political subdivision thereof, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction, provided that, prior to disclosure, the Commission or an employee delegated authority by § 140.73 of this chapter to disclose information pursuant to section 8(e) of the Act is satisfied that the information will not be disclosed by such department or agency except in connection with an adjudicatory action or proceeding brought under the laws of such foreign government or political subdivision to which such foreign government or political subdivision or any department or agency thereof is a party.
(b) The Commission will make reasonable efforts to serve notice on an individual when any record on such individual is made available to any person under compulsory legal process when such process becomes a matter of public record. In any instance where a record on an individual, which has been submitted to the Commission by such individual, is sought pursuant to a summons or subpoena, notice will be given in accordance with the provisions of section 8(f) of the Commodity Exchange Act, and § 140.80 of this chapter, at least fourteen days prior to disclosure. Notice will not, however, be given with regard to any information as to which the submitter has waived the notice requirements of § 140.80.
(c) The Commission, with respect to each system of records under its control, shall keep an accurate accounting of certain disclosures.
(1) A record shall be kept of all disclosures made under paragraph (a) of § 146.6, except disclosures made with the consent of the individual to whom the record pertains (paragraph (a)(1) of this section), disclosures to authorized employees (paragraph (a)(2) of this section) and disclosures required under the Freedom of Information Act (paragraph (a)(3) of this section).
(2) The record shall include:
(i) The date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record made to any person or to another agency;
(ii) The name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure was made.
(3) The accounting will be retained for at least five years or the life of the record, whichever is longer, after the disclosure for which the accounting is made.
(d) The accounting described in paragraph (c) of this section will be made available to the individual named in the record upon his written request, directed to the FOIA compliance staff in the Office of the General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, except that the accounting will not be revealed with respect to disclosures made under paragraph (a)(7) of this section pertaining to law enforcement activity, and to disclosures involving systems of investigative records exempted under § 146.12 of these rules.
(e) Whenever an amendment or correction of a record or a notation of dispute concerning the accuracy of records is made by the Commission in accordance with §§ 146.8 and 146.9 of
these rules, the Commission will inform any person or other agency to whom the record was previously disclosed, if an accounting of the disclosure was made pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(Secs. 2(a)(11), 8 and 8a of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 4a(j), 12 and 12a, as amended by Pub. L. 97-444)
[41 FR 3212, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 28261, July 9, 1976; 48 FR 22136, May 17, 1983; 49 FR 4465, Feb. 7, 1984; 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71818, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 146.7
Content of systems of records.
(a) The Commission will maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Commodity Exchange Act and other purposes required to be accomplished by statute or by executive order of the President.
(b) The Commission will maintain no record describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.
(c) The Commission will collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs.
(d) The Commission will maintain all records which are used by the Commission in making any determination about any individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination.
§ 146.8
Amendment of a record.
(a) Any individual may request amendment of information pertaining to them which is contained in a system of records maintained by the Commission and which is filed under their name or other individual identifier if they believe the information is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete. A request for amendment shall be directed to the FOIA compliance staff at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(b) A request for amendment may be made by mail or in person and shall: (1) Be in writing and signed by the person making the request; (2) describe the particular record to be amended with sufficient specificity to permit the record to be located among those maintained by the Commission; and (3) specify the nature of the amendment sought and the justification for the requested change. The person making the request may be required to provide the information specified in §§ 146.3 and 146.4 of these rules in order to simplify identification of the record and permit verification of the identity of the person making the request for amendment.
(c) Receipt of a request for amendment will be acknowledged in writing within ten days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) except that, if the individual is given notice within the ten day period that his request will or will not be complied with, no acknowledgement is required.
(d) Assistance in preparing a request to amend a record may be obtained from the Chief Privacy Officer at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(e) Upon receipt of a request for amendment the General Council of the Commission or a person designated by the Executive Director shall promptly determine whether the record is materially inaccurate, incomplete, misleading, or is irrelevant or not timely, as claimed by the individual, and, if so, shall cause the record to be amended in accordance with the individual's request.
(f) If the General Council or designee grants the request to amend the record, the individual shall promptly be advised of the decision and of the action taken, and notice shall be given of the correction and its substance to each person or agency to whom the record had previously been disclosed, as shown on the record of disclosures maintained in accordance with § 146.6(c).
(g) If the General Council or designee disagrees in whole or in part with a request for amendment of a record, the individual shall promptly be notified of
the complete or partial denial of his request and the reasons for the refusal. The individual shall also be notified of the procedures for administrative review by the Commission of any complete or partial denial of a request for amendment, which are set forth in § 146.9.
(h) If a request is received for amendment of a record prepared by another agency which is in the possession or control of the Commission, the request for amendment will be forwarded to that agency. If that agency determines that the correction should be made, the Commission will amend its records accordingly and notify the individual making the request for amendment of the change. If the other agency declines to make the amendment, the General Coouncil or designee will independently determine whether the amendment will be made to the record in the Commission's possession or control, considering any explanation given by the other agency for its decision.
[41 FR 3211, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 28261, July 9, 1976; 60 FR 49335, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71818, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 146.9
Appeals to the Commission.
(a) Any individual may petition the Commission:
(1) To review a refusal to comply with an individual request for access to records pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1), and §§ 146.3 and 146.5 of the rules in this part;
(2) To review denial of a request for amendment made pursuant to § 146.8;
(3) To correct any determination that may have been made adverse to the individual based in whole or in part upon inaccurate, irrelevant, untimely or incomplete information;
(4) To correct a failure to comply with any other provision of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and the rules of this part 146, which has had an adverse effect on the individual.
(b) The petition to the Commission shall be in writing and shall (1) state in what manner it is claimed the Commission or any Commission employee has failed or refused to comply with provisions of the Privacy Act or of the rules contained in this part 146, and (2) set forth the corrective action the petitioner wishes the Commission to take. The petitioner may, if he wishes, state such facts and cite such legal or other authorities as he considers appropriate.
(c) The petition shall be directed to the General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(d) The Commission will make a determination of any petition filed pursuant to this § 146.9 within thirty days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after receipt by the FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance staff, Office of the Secretariat of the petition, unless for good cause shown, the Commission extends the 30-day period. If a petition is denied, the Commission will notify the petitioner in writing and state the reasons therefor.
(e) Where the petition is made for review of a denial of a request for amendment made pursuant to § 146.8, the following additional procedures shall apply:
(1) If upon review the Commission grants the petition to amend the record, notice of the correction and its substance shall be given to each person or agency to whom the record had previously been disclosed, as shown on the record of disclosures maintained in accordance with § 146.6(c) of these rules.
(2) If upon review the initial denial of the request for amendment is upheld in whole or in part, the individual shall be notified of the provisions for judicial review of that determination which are set forth in section 552a(g)(1)(A) and (2)(A), of title 5 of the U.S. Code and the provisions for disputed records set forth in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(3) If after review the Commission has declined to amend the records as the individual has requested, the individual may file with the FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance staff, Office of the Secretariat a concise statement setting forth why he disagrees with the Commission's denial of his request. Any subsequent disclosure containing information about which a statement of disagreement has been filed shall clearly note the portion which is disputed, and include a copy of the individual's statement. The Commission may also include a copy of a
concise statement explaining its reasons for not making the amendments requested.
(f) The General Counsel or his or her designee is hereby delegated the authority to act for the Commission in deciding appeals under this section. The General Counsel may, in his or her sole and unfettered discretion, refer such appeals to the Commission for decision.
[41 FR 3211, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 28261, July 9, 1976; 45 FR 26954, Apr. 22, 1980; 51 FR 26874, July 28, 1986; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71818, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 146.10
Information supplied by the Commission when collecting information from an individual.
The Commission will inform each individual whom it asks to supply information, on the form which it uses to collect the information or on a separate form that can be retained by the individual of:
(a) The authority (whether granted by statute, or by executive order of the President) which authorizes the solicitation of the information and whether disclosure of such information is mandatory or voluntary;
(b) The principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used;
(c) The routine uses which may be made of the information, as published in the
Federal Register;
and
(d) The effects on him, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information.
§ 146.11
Public notice of records systems.
(a) The Commission will publish in the
Federal Register
at least biennially a notice of the existence and character of each of its systems of records, which notice shall include—
(1) The name and location of the system;
(2) The categories of individuals on whom records are maintained in the system;
(3) The categories of records maintained in the system;
(4) Each routine use of the records contained in the system, including the categories of users and the purpose of such use;
(5) The policies and practices of the Commission regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention, and disposal of the records;
(6) The title and business address of the Commission official who is responsible for the system of records;
(7) The procedures whereby an individual can be notified at his request if the system of records contains a record pertaining to him;
(8) The procedures whereby an individual can be notified at his request how he can gain access to any record pertaining to him contained in the system of records, and how he can contest its contents; and
(9) The categories of sources of records in the system.
(b) Copies of the notices as printed in the
Federal Register
will be available in each office of the Commission. Locations of Commission offices are listed in § 145.6. Mail requests shall be directed to the FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance staff, Office of the Secretariat, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581. The first copy will be furnished free of charge. A charge will be made for each additional copy.
[41 FR 3212, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 28261, July 9, 1976; 45 FR 26955, Apr. 22, 1980; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 65 FR 53560, Sept. 5, 2000]
§ 146.12
Exemptions.
The Commission is exempting from certain provisions of the Privacy Act the systems of records set forth in this section. In addition, when these systems of records and any other of the Commission's systems of records maintain a record received from another system of records that is exempted from one or more provisions of the Privacy Act, the Commission will claim the same exemptions for that record that are claimed for the system of records from which it originated.
(a)
CFTC-1 Enforcement Matter Register and Matter Indices.
The system of records identified as CFTC-1 Enforcement Matter Register and Matter Indices contains an index and registry of enforcement investigations. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and subject to the requirements and limitations set forth
therein, the Commission is exempting this system of records from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) through (I); and (f), and from the following corresponding sections of these rules: §§ 146.3; 146.5; 146.6(d); 146.11(a)(7) through (9); and 146.7(a). Exemptions from these particular sections of the Privacy Act and CFTC's rules promulgated thereunder are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From section (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), because release of the accounting of certain disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and the recipient entity. Release of such information to the subject of an investigation could reasonably be anticipated to impede and interfere with the Commission's efforts to identify and investigate unlawful activities.
(2) From sections (d)(1) through (4) (Access and Amendment), because individual access to these records could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and others. Providing a subject with access to these records could impair the effectiveness of the Commission's investigations and could significantly impede the investigation by providing the opportunity for the subject to destroy documentary evidence, improperly influence witnesses and confidential sources, fabricate testimony, and engage in other activities that could compromise the investigation. In addition, providing an individual with access to these records may reveal the identity of a source who furnished information under an express promise that their identity would remain confidential. Allowing the subject of the investigation to amend records in this system of records could likewise interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring law enforcement investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(3) From section (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information), because in the course of investigations into potential violations of law, the significance of certain information may not be clear or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation; but, effective law enforcement requires the retention of all information that may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity and providing investigative leads.
(4) From section (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules), because the Commission is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures related to access and amendment of records in a system of records that is exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions in section (d) of the Privacy Act.
(b)
CFTC-10 Investigatory Records.
The system of records identified as CFTC-10 Investigatory Records contains records compiled for law enforcement purposes, including records developed during an investigation of violations or potential violations of the CEA. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and subject to the requirements and limitations set forth therein, the Commission is exempting this system of records from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) through (I); and (f), and from the following corresponding sections of these rules: §§ 146.3; 146.5; 146.6(d); 146.11(a)(7) through (9); and 146.7(a). Exemptions from these particular sections of the Privacy Act and CFTC's rules promulgated thereunder are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From section (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), because release of the accounting of certain disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and the recipient entity. Release of such information to the subject of an investigation could reasonably be anticipated to impede and interfere with the Commission's efforts to identify and investigate unlawful activities.
(2) From sections (d)(1) through (4) (Access and Amendment), because individual access to these records could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative
interests of the Commission and others. Providing a subject with access to these records could impair the effectiveness of the Commission's investigations and could significantly impede the investigation by providing the opportunity for the subject to destroy documentary evidence, improperly influence witnesses and confidential sources, fabricate testimony, and engage in other activities that could compromise the investigation. In addition, providing an individual with access to these records may reveal the identity of a source who furnished information under an express promise that their identity would remain confidential. Allowing the subject of the investigation to amend records in this system of records could likewise interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring law enforcement investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(3) From section (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information), because in the course of investigations into potential violations of law, the significance of certain information may not be clear or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation; but, effective law enforcement requires the retention of all information that may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity and providing investigative leads.
(4) From sections (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules), because the Commission is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures related to access and amendment of records in a system of records that is exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions in section (d) of the Privacy Act.
(c)
CFTC-12 National Futures Association (NFA) Applications Suite System.
The system of records identified as CFTC-12 National Futures Association (NFA) Applications Suite System contains records held by NFA on behalf of the Commission, by delegated authority to support the Commission's registration and other regulatory authority. These records include records pertaining to the fitness of individuals to be registered with the Commission and engage in business activities that are subject to the Commission's jurisdiction and records pertaining to disciplinary or other adverse action investigated or taken with respect to individual registrants. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and subject to the requirements and limitations set forth therein, the Commission is exempting this system of records from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) through (I); and (f), and from the following corresponding sections of these rules: §§ 146.3; 146.5; 146.6(d); 146.11(a)(7) through (9); and 146.7(a). Exemptions from these particular sections of the Privacy Act are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From section (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), because release of accountings of certain disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and the recipient entity. Release of such information to the subject of an investigation could reasonably be anticipated to impede and interfere with the Commission's efforts to identify and investigate unlawful activities.
(2) From sections (d)(1) through (4) (Access and Amendment), because individual access to these records could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and others. Providing a subject with access to these records could impair the effectiveness of the Commission's investigations and could significantly impede the investigation by providing the opportunity for the subject to destroy documentary evidence, improperly influence witnesses and confidential sources, fabricate testimony, and engage in other activities that could compromise the investigation. In addition, providing an individual with access to these records may reveal the identity of a source who furnished information under an express promise that their identity would remain confidential. Allowing the subject of the investigation to amend records in this
system of records could likewise interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring law enforcement investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(3) From section (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information), because in the course of investigations into potential violations of law, the significance of certain information may not be clear or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation; but, effective law enforcement requires the retention of all information that may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity and providing investigative leads.
(4) From sections (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules), because the Commission is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures related to access and amendment of records in a system of records that is exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions in section (d) of the Privacy Act.
(d)
CFTC-31 Closed Commission Meetings.
The system of records identified as CFTC-31 Closed Commission Meetings contains records about individuals who are the subject of discussion at closed Commission meetings, including those who are the subject of investigations or who are being considered for employment. These records may include statements from individuals who have provided information in the course of an applicant's or employee's background investigation or other Commission investigation and who have requested that their identities remain confidential. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (5) and subject to the requirements and limitations set forth therein, the Commission is exempting this system of records from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) through (I); and (f), and from the following corresponding sections of these rules: §§ 146.3; 146.5; 146.6(d); 146.11(a)(7) through (9); and 146.7(a). Exemptions from these particular sections of the Privacy Act are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From section (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), because release of the accounting of certain disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and the recipient entity. Release of such information to the subject of an investigation could reasonably be anticipated to impede and interfere with the Commission's efforts to identify and investigate unlawful activities.
(2) From sections (d)(1) through (4) (Access and Amendment), because individual access to these records could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and others. Providing a subject with access to these records could impair the effectiveness of the Commission's investigations and could significantly impede the investigation by providing the opportunity for the subject to destroy documentary evidence, improperly influence witnesses and confidential sources, fabricate testimony, and engage in other activities that could compromise the investigation. In addition, providing an individual with access to these records may reveal the identity of a source who furnished information under an express promise that their identity would remain confidential. Allowing the subject of the investigation to amend records in this system of records could likewise interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring law enforcement investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(3) From section (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information), because in the course of investigations into potential violations of law, the significance of certain information may not be clear or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation; but, effective law enforcement requires the retention of all information that may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity and providing investigative leads.
(4) From section (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules), because the Commission is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures related to access and amendment of records in a system
of records that is exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions in section (d) of the Privacy Act.
(e)
CFTC-32, Office of the Inspector General Investigative Files.
The system of records identified as CFTC-32 Office of the Inspector General Investigative Files contains records relevant to criminal and civil investigations conducted by the Office of the Inspector General, including records about individuals being investigated for fraudulent and abusive activities. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and subject to the requirements and limitations set forth therein, the Commission is exempting this system of records from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1) through (3), (e)(4)(G) through (I), and (e)(5) and (8); (f); and (g), and from the following corresponding sections of these rules: §§ 146.3; 146.4; 146.5; 146.6(b), (d), and (e); 146.7(a), (c), and (d); 146.8; 146.9; 146.10; and 146.11(a)(7) through (9). In addition, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and subject to the requirements and limitations set forth therein, the Commission is exempting this system of records from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) through (I); and (f), and from the following corresponding sections of these rules: §§ 146.3; 146.5; 146.6(d); 146.11(a)(7) through (9); and 146.7(a). Exemptions from these particular sections of the Privacy Act are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From section (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), because release of the accounting of certain disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and the recipient entity. Release of such information to the subject of an investigation could reasonably be anticipated to impede and interfere with the Commission's efforts to identify and investigate unlawful activities.
(2) From section (c)(4) (Notice of Correction), because this system is exempt from the access and amendment provisions of section (d), as noted below.
(3) From sections (d)(1) through (4) (Access and Amendment), because individual access to these records could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and others. Providing a subject with access to these records could impair the effectiveness of the Commission's investigations and could significantly impede the investigation by providing the opportunity for the subject to destroy documentary evidence, improperly influence witnesses and confidential sources, fabricate testimony, and engage in other activities that could compromise the investigation. In addition, providing an individual with access to these records may reveal the identity of a source who furnished information under an express promise that their identity would remain confidential. Allowing the subject of the investigation to amend records in this system of records could likewise interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring law enforcement investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(4) From section (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information) and (5) (Accuracy, Timeliness, Relevance, and Completeness), because in the course of investigations into potential violations of law, the significance of certain information may not be clear or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation; but, effective law enforcement requires the retention of all information that may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity and providing investigative leads.
(5) From section (e)(2) (Collect from Individual), because in a law enforcement investigation the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement, in that the subject of the investigation would be informed of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection, apprehension, or legal obligations or duties.
(6) From section (e)(3) (Privacy Act Statement), because to comply with the requirements of this section during the course of an investigation could
impede the information gathering process and hamper the investigation.
(7) From sections (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules), because the Commission is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures related to access and amendment of records in a system of records that is exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions in section (d) of the Privacy Act.
(8) From section (e)(8) (Serve Notice), because the application of this provision could prematurely reveal an ongoing criminal investigation to the subject of the investigation, present a serious impediment to law enforcement by interfering with the ability to issue subpoenas or otherwise gather information, and reveal investigative techniques, procedures, or evidence.
(9) From section (g) (Civil Remedies), because this system of records is exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions in section (d) of the Privacy Act for the reasons stated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; therefore, the Commission is not subject to civil action for failure to adhere to those requirements.
(f)
CFTC-44 Personnel Clearance System.
The system of records identified as CFTC-44 Personnel Clearance System contains records related to the background investigations and security clearances of individuals who have been or are being considered for access to Commission facilities, information technology systems, and classified or confidential information. These records may include statements from individuals who have provided information in the course of a background investigation and have requested that their identity remain confidential. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (5) and subject to the requirements and limitations set forth therein, the Commission is exempting this system of records from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) through (I); and (f), and from the following corresponding sections of these rules: §§ 146.3; 146.5; 146.6(d); 146.11(a)(7) through (9); and 146.7(a). Exemptions from these particular sections of the Privacy Act are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From sections (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), because release of the accounting of certain disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation to the extent of that investigation and reveal investigative interests of the Commission and the recipient entity that were previously unknown to the individual. Release of such information to the subject of an investigation could reasonably be anticipated to impede and interfere with the Commission's efforts to adequately assess an individual when making a decision about the individual's access to Commission facilities, information technology systems, and classified and confidential information.
(2) From sections (d)(1) through (4) (Access and Amendment), because the records contained in this system may be related to ongoing investigations, and individual access to these records could alert the subject of an investigation to the extent of that investigation and reveal investigative interests of the Commission and others that were previously unknown to the individual. Providing a subject with access to these records could impair the effectiveness of the Commission's investigations and could significantly impede the investigation by providing the opportunity for the subject to destroy documentary evidence, improperly influence witnesses and confidential sources, fabricate testimony, and engage in other activities that could compromise the investigation. In addition, providing an individual with access to these records may reveal the identity of a source who furnished information under an express promise that their identity would remain confidential. Amendment of the records in this system of records would interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring law enforcement investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(3) From section (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information), because in the course of conducting and adjudicating background investigations, the significance of certain information may not be clear or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation; but,
effective investigations require the retention of all information that may aid in the investigation and provide investigative leads.
(4) From sections (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements), and (f) (Agency Rules), because the Commission is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures related to access and amendment of records in a system of records that is exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions in section (d) of the Privacy Act.
(g)
CFTC-49 Whistleblower Records.
The system of records identified as CFTC-49 Whistleblower Records contains records related to whistleblower tips, complaints and referrals, records related to investigations and inquiries into whistleblower complaints, and records related to the whistleblower award claim and determination process. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and subject to the requirements and limitations set forth therein, the Commission is exempting this system of records from the following provisions of the Privacy Act: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) through (I); and (f), and from the following corresponding sections of these rules: §§ 146.3; 146.5; 146.6(d); 146.11(a) through (9); and 146.7(a). Exemptions from these particular sections of the Privacy Act are justified for the following reasons:
(1) From section (c)(3) (Accounting of Certain Disclosures), because release of the accounting of certain disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and the recipient entity. Release of such information to the subject of an investigation could reasonably be anticipated to impede and interfere with the Commission's efforts to identify and investigate unlawful activities.
(2) From sections (d)(1) through (4) (Access and Amendment), because individual access to these records could alert the subject of an investigation to the existence and extent of that investigation and reveal the investigative interests of the Commission and others. Providing a subject with access to these records could impair the effectiveness of the Commission's investigations and could significantly impede the investigation by providing the opportunity for the subject to destroy documentary evidence, improperly influence witnesses and confidential sources, fabricate testimony, and engage in other activities that could compromise the investigation. Allowing the subject of the investigation to amend records in this system of records could likewise interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring law enforcement investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(3) From section (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information), because in the course of investigations, the significance of certain information may not be clear or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation; but, effective investigations require the retention of all information that may aid in the investigation or aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads. (4) From sections (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements) and (f) (Agency Rules), because the Commission is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures related to access and amendment of records in a system of records that is exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions in section (d) of the Privacy Act.
[89 FR 51212, June 17, 2024]
Pt. 146, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 146—Fees for Copies of Records Requested Under the Privacy Act of 1974
a. The following schedule of fees shall apply to copies of records requested pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a and § 146.5(f).
(1) For requests for copies of documents, the charge will be 15 cents per page.
(2) For materials other than paper records, including computer and cassette tapes, the direct cost of the materials and, if required, time spent by clerical personnel copying the materials shall be charged. Persons making the request shall be notified of the amount of the charge and shall give specific approval before the request is processed.
(3) For certifying that requested records are true copies, the fee will be $3.00 per certification in addition to other fees, if any.
(4) Upon request, records will be mailed by means of an overnight/express service at the fee of $10.00 per unit mailed.
(5) The Commission may, upon application by the individual, furnish any records without charge or at a reduced rate, if it determines that such wavier or reduction of fee is in the public interest.
b. Requests for copies of documents shall be addressed to FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Acts compliance staff, Office of Secretariat, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581.
c. Payment should be made by check or money order payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
d. Advance payment of all or part of the fee may be required at the discretion of the Commission. Generally, advance payment will not be required where the anticipated fee is less than $25.
(7 U.S.C. 4a(j) and 16a as amended by Pub. L. 97-444, 96 Stat. 2294 (1983) and 5 U.S.C. 552. 662a and 552b)
[41 FR 3212, Jan. 21, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 26955, Apr. 22, 1980; 48 FR 46011, Oct. 11, 1983; 48 FR 55280, Dec. 12, 1983; 49 FR 12684, Mar. 30, 1984; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995]
Pt. 147

# PART 147—OPEN COMMISSION MEETINGS
Sec.
147.1
General policy considerations, purpose and scope of rules relating to open Commission meetings.
147.2
Definitions.
147.3
General requirement of open meetings; grounds upon which meetings may be closed.
147.4
Procedure for announcing meetings.
147.5
General procedure for closing meetings.
147.6
Special procedure for closing certain meetings.
147.7
Maintenance of transcripts, recordings and minutes of closed meetings.
147.8
Public availability of transcripts, recordings and minutes of closed meetings.
147.9
Requests for copies of transcripts, recordings or minutes of closed meetings.
147.10
Interpretation of this part with other provisions.

# Authority:
Sec. 3(a), Pub. L. 94-409, 90 Stat. 1241 (5 U.S.C. 552b); sec. 101(a)(11), Pub. L. 93-463, 88 Stat. 1391 (7 U.S.C. 4a(j) (Supp. V, 1975)), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 147.1
General policy considerations, purpose and scope of rules relating to open Commission meetings.
(a) This part contains the rules of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission implementing the open meeting requirements of the Government in the Sunshine Act (Pub. L. 94-409, 90 Stat. 1241, 5 U.S.C. 552b). These rules apply to all deliberations of a quorum of the Commission which determine or result in the conduct or disposition of official Commission business, with the exception of deliberations required or permitted by § 147.4, § 147.5 or § 147.6.
(b) Among the primary purposes of these rules is the Commission's desire to inform the public to the fullest extent possible of its activities as an aid to its properly carrying out its responsibility for administrating and enforcing the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
and the Commission's belief that, in order to guarantee public confidence in the integrity of its decision-making, it must, to the fullest possible extent, conduct its business in an open manner.
§ 147.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency
includes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(b)
Commission
means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(c)
Commissioner
means a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission duly appointed as a Commissioner in accordance with section 2(a)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 4a(a);
(d)
Meeting
means the deliberations of a quorum of Commissioners that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Commission business, but does not include deliberations required or permitted by § 147.4, § 147.5 or § 147.6;
(e)
Person
includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, exchange or other entity or organization;
(f)
Quorum
means at least the minimum number of Commissioners required to take action on behalf of the Commission;
(g) The term
FOIA Compliance staff
refers to the Freedom of Information Act Compliance Staff assigned to respond to requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act.
[42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 26955, Apr. 22, 1980; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 147.3
General requirement of open meetings; grounds upon which meetings may be closed.
(a) Commissioners shall not jointly conduct or dispose of agency business other than in accordance with the rules of this part, and meetings shall not be held in places which restrict membership or attendance or otherwise discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, national origin, ancestry, religion or sex. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, every portion of every meeting of the Commission shall be open to public observation.
(b) Except where the Commission finds that the public interest requires otherwise, meetings or portions of meetings shall not be open to public observation, and the requirements of §§ 147.4, 147.5 and 147.6 shall not apply to any information pertaining to such meetings or portions of meetings otherwise required by the rules of this part to be publicly disclosed, where the Commission determines that such meetings or portions of meetings or the disclosure of such information is likely to:
(1) Disclose matters that (i) are specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy, and (ii) are in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order;
(2) Relate solely to the internal personnel rules and personnel practices of the Commission or any other agency of the Government of the United States, including, but not limited to, operational rules, guidelines, and manuals of procedure for investigators, auditors, and other employees (other than those rules and practices which establish legal requirements to which members of the public are expected to conform);
(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552), provided that such statute (i) requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or (ii) establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld. This includes, but is not limited to, data and information which would separately disclose the business transactions or market positions of any person and trade secrets or names of customers and data and information concerning or obtained in connection with any pending investigation of any person;
(4)(i) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential including, but not limited to:
(A) Reports of stocks of grain, such as Forms 38, 38C, 38M and 38T, required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.44;
(B) Statements of reporting traders on Form 40 required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 18.04;
(C) Statements concerning special calls on positions required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR part 21;
(D) Statements concerning identification of special accounts on Form 102 required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 17.01;
(E) Reports required to be filed pursuant to parts 15 through 21 of this chapter;
(F) Reports concerning option positions of large traders required to be filed pursuant to part 16 of this chapter;
(G) Form 188; and
(H) The following reports and statements that are also set forth in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, except as specified in 17 CFR 1.10(g)(2) or 17 CFR 31.13(m): Forms 1-FR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.10; FOCUS reports that are filed in lieu of Forms 1-FR pursuant to 17 CFR 1.10(h); Forms 2-FR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 31.13; the accountant's report on material inadequacies filed in accordance with 17 CFR 1.16(c)(5); all reports and statements required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.17(c)(6); the following portions of Form CPO-PQR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 4.27: Schedule A: Question 2, subparts (b) and (d); Question 3, subparts (g) and (h); Question 9; Question 10, subparts (b), (c), (d), (e), and (g); Question 11; and Question 12; and Schedules B and C; and the following portions of Form CTA-PR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 4.27: Question 2, subparts (c) and (d);
(ii) Information contained in reports, summaries, analyses, transcripts, letters or memoranda arising out of, in anticipation of or in connection with an examination or inspection of the books and records of any person or any other formal or informal inquiry or investigation; and
(iii) Information for which confidential treatment has been requested and granted in accordance with 17 CFR 145.9;
(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person, including but not limited to:
(i) Requests by the Commission that the Attorney General of the United States institute a criminal action against any person believed to have violated any provision of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 1,
et seq.
, or any rule, regulation or order thereunder;
(ii) The consideration of any administrative proceeding instituted or to be instituted by the Commission against any person for a violation of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 1,
et seq.
, or any rule, regulation or order thereunder;
(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, including, but not limited to, information of that character contained in:
(i) Files concerning employees of the Commission;
(ii) Files concerning persons subject to regulation by the Commission, including files with respect to applications for registration and biographical supplements submitted with such applications. Examples of the information on the applications and biographical supplements which may be protected are an individual's home address and telephone number, social security number, date and place of birth, fingerprints and, in appropriate cases, the information concerning prior arrests, indictments, criminal convictions or other judgments or sanctions imposed by State or Federal courts or regulatory authorities; and
(iii) Files containing information for which confidential treatment has been requested and granted in accordance with 17 CFR 145.9;
(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, to the extent that production of such records or information would (i) interfere with enforcement proceedings, (ii) deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication, (iii) constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, (iv) disclose the identity of a confidential source, (v) disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or (vi) endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel. Investigatory records and information include all documents, records, transcripts, correspondence and related memoranda and work-product concerning examinations and other inquiries or investigations and related litigation as authorized by law, which pertain to or may disclose the possible violations by any person of any provision of law, including the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, or of any rule or regulation adopted by the Commission or which pertain to the qualifications of any person registered or seeking registration under that Act or of any person affiliated with such person; and all written communications from or to any person who has confidentially complained or otherwise furnished information respecting such possible violations, as well as all correspondence and memoranda in connection with such confidential complaints or information;
(8) Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of the Commission or any other agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not limited to the following reports and statements that are also set forth in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(H) of this section, except as specified in 17 CFR 1.10(g)(2) or 17 CFR 31.13(m): Forms 1-FR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.10; FOCUS reports that are filed in lieu of Forms 1-FR pursuant to 17 CFR 1.10(h); Forms 2-FR pursuant to 17 CFR 31.13; the accountant's report on material inadequacies filed in accordance with 1.16(c)(5); and all reports and
statements required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 1.17(c)(6); and
(i) The following portions of Form CPO-PQR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 4.27: Schedule A: Question 2, subparts (b) and D; Question 3, subparts (g) and (h); Question 10, subparts (b), (c), (d), (e), and (g); Question 11; Question 12; and Question 13; and Schedules B and C; and
(ii) The following portions of Form CTA-PR required to be filed pursuant to 17 CFR 4.27: Schedule B: Question 4, subparts (b), (c), (d), and (e); Question 5; and Question 6;
(9) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would be likely to (i) lead to significant financial speculation in currencies, securities, or commodities, (ii) significantly endanger the stability of any financial institution, or (iii) frustrate significantly the implementation of a proposed Commission action, except where the Commission has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action, or where the Commission is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final Commission action on such proposal; or
(10) Specifically concern the Commission's issuance of a subpena, or the Commission's participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct, or disposition by the Commission of a particular case of formal agency ajudication pursuant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554 or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.
(5 U.S.C. 552, 5 U.S.C. 552b, and secs. 2(a)(11), 4b, 4f, 4g, 5a, 8a, and 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 2, 4a(j), 6b, 6f, 6g, 7a, 12a, and 21, as amended, 92 Stat. 865
et seq.;
secs. 2(a)(1), 4c(a)-(d), 4d, 4f, 4g, 4k, 4m, 4n, 8a, 15 and 17, Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 4, 6c(a)-(d), 6f, 6g, 6k, 6m, 6n, 12a, 19 and 21; 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b); secs. 2(a)(11) and 8, 7 U.S.C. 4a(j) and 12 (1983); secs. 8a(5) and 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 12a(5) and 23 (1982); 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b)
[42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 42851, Aug. 25, 1977; 44 FR 13458, Mar. 12, 1979; 45 FR 2023, Jan. 10, 1980; 46 FR 24943, May 4, 1981; 46 FR 54534, Nov. 3, 1981; 48 FR 35303, Aug. 3, 1983; 49 FR 4465, Feb. 7, 1984; 49 FR 5541, Feb. 13, 1984; 53 FR 4613, Feb. 17, 1988; 54 FR 41084, Oct. 5, 1989; 62 FR 4642, Jan. 31, 1997; 64 FR 27, Jan. 4, 1999; 71 FR 5595, Feb. 2, 2006; 75 FR 55450, Sept. 10, 2010; 77 FR 11342, Feb. 24, 2012]
§ 147.4
Procedure for announcing meetings.
(a) Advance notice of all meetings of the Commission shall be provided to the public. In the case of each meeting, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and in § 147.6, the Commission shall, except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of § 147.3(b), make a public announcement, at least one week before the date of the meeting of the time, place and subject matter of the meeting and which portions of the meeting shall be open or closed to the public, and shall indicate an official of the Commission who may be contacted at a designated telephone number for information about the meeting.
(b) When a majority of Commissioners determines by a recorded vote that Commission business requires a meeting be held upon public notice of less than one week as required by paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission shall, except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of § 147.3(b), make a public announcement, at the earliest practicable time, of the time, place and subject matter of the meeting and which portions of the meeting shall be open or closed to the public, and indicate an official of the Commission who may be contacted at a
designated telephone number for information about the meeting.
(c)(1) When it becomes necessary to change the time or place of a meeting for which a public announcement has been made pursuant to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the Commission shall publicly announce such change at the earliest practicable time.
(2) When it becomes necessary with respect to a meeting for which a public announcement has already been made pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)(1) of this section to change the subject matter of a meeting, or change the Commission's determination as to which portions of a meeting shall be open or closed to the public, a majority of all Commissioners shall determine by a recorded vote that Commission business requires such a change and that no earlier announcement of the charge was possible, and the Commission shall publicly announce such change and the vote of each Commissioner upon such change at the earliest practicable time.
(d) Public announcement of meetings, as required by this section, shall be provided as follows:
(1) A public calendar shall be printed and distributed by the Commission on a regular basis to interested persons to provide advance public notice of meetings as required by paragraph (a) of this section, and, to the extent practicable, as required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Upon request in writing to the Office of Public Affairs at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581, any person or organization will be sent the public calendar on a regular basis free of charge. Copies of the public calendar also will be publicly available in the Commission's Office of Public Affairs.
(2) Interested persons may contact the Commission's Office of the Secretariat during normal business hours to obtain information concerning future meetings.
(e) Immediately following each public announcement required by this section, the Commission shall submit for publication in the
Federal Register,
except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of § 147.3(b), notice of the time, place, and subject matter of a meeting, which portions of the meeting shall be open or closed to the public, any change in one of the preceding, and the name and telephone number of an official of the Commission who may be contacted for information about the meeting.
[42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, as amended at 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 147.5
General procedure for closing meetings.
(a) The Commission shall determine that a meeting or portion of a meeting will be closed to public observation pursuant to § 147.3(b) only upon the majority vote of all Commissioners. The vote of each Commissioner shall be recorded, and the use of proxies shall be prohibited.
(b) A separate vote of Commissioners shall be taken with respect to each meeting a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public pursuant to § 147.3(b), or with respect to any information which is proposed to be withheld under § 147.3(b).
(c) A single vote of Commissioners may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, when each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series.
(d) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting requests in writing to the Commission that the Commission close such portion to the public for any of the reasons set forth in § 147.3(b) (5), (6) or (7), the Commission, upon the request of any Commissioner, shall vote by recorded vote whether to close that portion of the meeting.
(e) Whenever any Commission employee whose appointment, employment or dismissal is to be the subject of a meeting or portion of meeting closed to the public pursuant to § 147.3(b) requests in writing to the Commission that the Commission open that meeting or portion of meeting, the
Commission shall open that meeting or portion of meeting to the public.
(f) Within one day of any vote taken pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of this section, the Commission shall make publicly available a written copy of that vote reflecting the vote of each Commissioner on the question. If the Commission determines by a vote taken pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of this section that a portion of a meeting is to be closed to the public, the Commission shall, within one day of such vote, make publicly available a full written explanation of its action closing the portion of the meeting together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliations, except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of § 147.3(b).
(g) Before any meeting or portion of a meeting may be closed pursuant to § 147.3(b), the Commission's General Counsel shall publicly certify that, in his or her opinion, the meeting or portion of meeting may be closed to the public, and shall state each relevant exemptive provision.
(h) Written copies of votes to close meetings and written explanations of Commission actions closing portions of meetings to the public required to be made publicly available by paragraph (f) of this section shall be available for public inspection in the offices of Office of the Secretariat at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(i) A copy of the certification of the Commission's General Counsel required by paragraph (g) of this section, together with a statement from the presiding officer at any meeting closed, in whole or in part, pursuant to § 147.3(b), setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the Commission and, except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of § 147.3(b), shall be available for public inspection in the Office of the Secretariat at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
[42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 26955, Apr. 22, 1980; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 147.6
Special procedure for closing certain meetings.
(a) Any meeting or portion of meeting that may properly be closed to the public pursuant to § 147.3(b) (4), (8), (9)(i), (9)(ii) or (10), or any combination thereof, may be closed if a majority of Commissioners votes by recorded vote at the beginning of such meeting, or portion thereof, to close the exempt portion or portions of the meeting.
(b) The provisions of § 147.4, and of § 147.5 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (h) shall not apply to any portion of a meeting to which paragraph (a) of this section is applied. The provisions of § 147.5(g) and (i) shall apply to any such portions of meetings.
(c) A written copy of all votes taken pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section reflecting the vote of each Commissioner on the question shall be made available for public inspection in the Office of the Secretariat at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(d) The Commission shall, except to the extent that such information is exempt from disclosure under the provisions of § 147.3(b), make public announcement at the earliest practicable time of the time, place, and subject matter of any portion of a meeting to which paragraph (a) of this section is applied. Such public announcement shall be provided, to the extent practicable, through the Commission's public calendar as described in § 147.4(d)(1), and by the Commission's Office of the Secretariat as set forth in § 147.4(d)(2).
[42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 26955, Apr. 22, 1980; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 147.7
Maintenance of transcripts, recordings and minutes of closed meetings.
(a) The Commission shall make and maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting or portion of meeting closed to the public, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)(1) In the case of each meeting or portion of meeting closed to the public pursuant to § 147.3(b) (8), (9)(i), (9)(ii) or (b)(10), or any combination thereof, the Commission shall make and maintain
either a complete transcript or recording as described in paragraph (a) of this section, or a set of minutes.
(2) When the Commission elects to keep minutes under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed at the closed meeting or closed portion thereof, and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item, and a record of any roll call vote taken which reflects the vote of each Commissioner on the question. All documents considered in connection with any actions taken shall be identified in such minutes.
§ 147.8
Public availability of transcripts, recordings and minutes of closed meetings.
(a) The Commission shall make promptly available to the public, in the Office of the Secretariat at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, the transcript, electronic recording or set of minutes of the discussion of any item on the agenda of any closed meeting or closed portion thereof (as required by § 147.7), or of any item of the testimony of any witness received at such meeting or portion thereof, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony that are determined, in accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, to contain information which may be withheld under § 147.3(b).
(b)(1) All determinations made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section that items of discussion or testimony reflected in transcripts, recordings or sets of minutes of closed meetings or closed portions thereof are exempt from disclosure pursuant to § 147.3(b), shall be made by the Office of the General Counsel in consultation with the Director of any affected staff division.
(2) Any person who objects to any determination made pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section may seek Commission review of that determination by filing with the Commission's Office of the Secretariat a brief written statement that review is sought which contains a concise statement of the reasons why the determination should be set aside.
(c) The Commission shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete electronic recording or a complete copy of the minutes of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to the public, which are made in accordance with § 147.7(a) or § 147.7(b), for a period of at least two years after such meeting or portion of meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Commission proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion thereof was held, whichever occurs later.
[42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 26955, Apr. 22, 1980; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 147.9
Requests for copies of transcripts, recordings or minutes of closed meetings.
(a) Copies of a transcript transcription of an electronic recording or set of minutes disclosing the identity of each speaker, which are publicly available pursuant to § 147.8(a), shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription pursuant to the schedule of fees set forth in 17 CFR part 145, appendix B (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(7), (a)(8), (a)(9), (d) and (e).
(b) Requests for copies of transcripts, transcriptions of electronic recordings or sets of minutes as described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made either in person, by telephone, or by mail addressed to the Office of the Secretariat at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(7 U.S.C. 4a(j) and 16a as amended by Pub. L. 97-444, 96 Stat. 2294 (1983) and 5 U.S.C. 552, 552a, and 552b)
[42 FR 13704, Mar. 11, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 26955, Apr. 22, 1980; 48 FR 46012, Oct. 11, 1983; 49 FR 12684, Mar. 30, 1984; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 147.10
Interpretation of this part with other provisions.
(a) Nothing in this part shall be interpreted as:
(1) Expanding or limiting the present rights of any person under part 145 of this title (implementing the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552), except that the exemptions set forth in § 147.3(b) of this part shall govern in the case of any request made
pursuant to part 145 to copy or inspect the transcripts, recordings or sets of minutes described in this part; or
(2) Authorizing the Commission to withhold from any person any record, including transcripts, recordings or sets of minutes required by this part, which is otherwise accessible to such individual under part 146 of this title (implementing the provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a).
(b) The requirements of chapter 33 of title 44, U.S. Code (with respect to the disposal of records), shall not apply to the transcripts, recordings and minutes described in this part.
Pt. 148

# PART 148—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT IN COVERED ADJUDICATORY PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE COMMISSION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
148.1
Purpose of these rules.
148.2
When the Act applies.
148.3
Proceedings covered.
148.4
Eligibility of applicants.
148.5
Standards for awards.
148.6
Allowable fees and expenses.
148.7
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
148.8
Awards against other agencies.

# Subpart B—Information Required from Applicants
148.11
Contents of application.
148.12
Net worth exhibit.
148.13
Documentation of fees and expenses.
148.14
When an application may be filed.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
148.21
Filing and service of documents.
148.22
Answer to application.
148.23
Reply.
148.24
Comments by other parties.
148.25
Settlement.
148.26
Further proceedings.
148.27
Decision.
148.28
Appeal to the Commission.
148.29
Judicial review.
148.30
Payment of award.

# Authority:
Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(1) and secs. 2(a)(11) and 8a(5) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 4a(j) and 12a(5), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
46 FR 57671, Nov. 25, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 148.1
Purpose of these rules.
The Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504 (called “the Act” in this part), provides for the award of attorney fees and other expenses to eligible individuals and entities who are prevailing private parties in adjudicatory proceedings before the Commission. An eligible party may receive an award when it prevails over the Commission, unless the Commission's position was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. The rules in this part describe the parties eligible for awards and the proceedings that are covered. They also explain how to apply for awards, and the procedures and standards that the Commission will use to make them.
[51 FR 18880, May 23, 1986]
§ 148.2
When the Act applies.
The Act applies to any covered adjudicatory proceeding pending before the Commission on or after October 1, 1981. This includes proceedings begun before October 1, 1981, if final Commission action has not been taken before that date. Awards may be sought for fees and other expenses incurred before October 1, 1981, in any such covered proceeding.
[51 FR 18880, May 23, 1986]
§ 148.3
Proceedings covered.
(a) The Act applies to adjudicatory proceedings conducted by the Commission. These are adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554 in which the position of the Commission or any other agency of the United States, or any component of an agency, is presented by an attorney or other representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding. Reparation proceedings under section 14 of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 18, Commission review of exchange disciplinary and access denial actions under section 8c of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 12c, and registered futures association disciplinary and membership denial actions under section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 21, are not covered by the Act. Proceedings brought to determine whether or not to grant or
renew registrations pursuant to sections 8a or 17(
o
), of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 8, 12a and 21(
o
), or contract market designations pursuant to section 6(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 8 (a), are excluded, but proceedings brought to suspend or revoke registrations or contract market designations are covered if they are otherwise adjudicatory proceedings. For the Commission, the types of proceedings generally covered are adjudicatory proceedings as defined in § 10.2(b) of this chapter; part 14 proceedings, if they involve a hearing, are also covered.
(b) The Commission's decision not to identify a type of proceeding as an adversary adjudication shall not preclude the filing of an application by a party who believes the proceeding is covered by the Act; whether the proceeding is covered will then be an issue for resolution in the proceedings on the application.
(c) If a proceeding includes both matters covered by the Act and matters specifically excluded from coverage, any award made will include only fees and expenses related to covered issues.
[46 FR 57671, Nov. 25, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 18880, May 23, 1986; 59 FR 5528, Feb. 7, 1994]
§ 148.4
Eligibility of applicants.
(a) To be eligible for an award of attorney fees and other expenses under the Act, the applicant must be a party to the adjudicatory proceeding for which it seeks an award. The term “party” is defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3). The applicant must show that it meets all conditions of eligibility set out in this subpart and in subpart B.
(b) The types of eligible applicants are as follows:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $2 million;
(2) The sole owner of an unincorporated business who has a net worth of not more than $7 million, including both personal and business interests, and not more that 500 employees;
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees;
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with not more than 500 employees; and
(5) Any other partnership, corporation, association, unit of local government, or public or private organization with a net worth of not more than $7 million and not more than 500 employees.
(c) For the purpose of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the adjudicatory proceeding was initiated.
(d) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered as an “individual” rather than a “sole owner of an unincorporated business” if the issues on which the applicant prevails are related primarily to personal interests rather than to business interests.
(e) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for compensation for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. The term “employee” also embraces all the agents of an applicant, by whatever title or label they may be known, for whose acts or omissions the applicant may be held liable under the Commodity Exchange Act.
See
7 U.S.C. 4. Part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
(f) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. Any individual, corporation or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interest of the applicant, or any corporation or other entity of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest, will be considered an affiliate for purposes of this part, unless the Presiding Officer determines that such treatment would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of the Act in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In addition, the Presiding Officer may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in
this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
(g) An applicant that participates in a proceeding on behalf of one or more other persons or entitles that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award.
[46 FR 57671, Nov. 25, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 18880, May 23, 1986]
§ 148.5
Standards for awards.
(a) A prevailing applicant may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred in connection with an adjudicatory proceeding, or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, unless the position of the Commission was substantially justified. The position of the Commission includes, in addition to the position taken by the Commission in the adversary adjudication, the action or failure to act by the Commission upon which the adversary adjudication is based. The burden of proof that an award should not be made to an eligible prevailing applicant is on the Commission.
(b) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the adjudicatory proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.
[46 FR 57671, Nov. 25, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 18880, May 23, 1986]
§ 148.6
Allowable fees and expenses.
(a) Awards will be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at a reduced rate to the applicant.
(b) No award for the fee of an attorney or agent under these rules may exceed $75 per hour. No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the maximum daily rate prescribed for GS-18 under section 5332 of title 5 of the U.S. Code. However, an award may also include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent, or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for such expenses.
(c) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent or expert witness, the Presiding Officer shall consider the following:
(1) If the attorney, agent or witness is in private practice, his or her customary fee for similar services, or, if an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated cost of the services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent or witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;
(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the adjudicatory proceeding; and
(5) Such other factors as may bear on the value of the services provided.
(d) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, test, project or similar matter prepared on behalf of a party may be awarded, to the extent that the charge for the service does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of the applicant's case.
§ 148.7
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
(a) If warranted by an increase in the cost of living or by special circumstances (such as limited availability of attorneys qualified to handle certain types of proceedings), the Commission may adopt regulations providing that attorney fees may be awarded at a rate higher than $75 per hour in some or all of the types of proceedings covered by this part. The Commission will conduct any rulemaking proceedings for this purpose under the informal rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553.
(b) Any person may file with the Commission a petition for rulemaking to increase the maximum rate for attorney fees, in accordance with § 13.2 of this chapter.
§ 148.8
Awards against other agencies.
If an applicant is entitled to an award because it prevails over another agency of the United States that participates in an adjudicatory proceeding
before the Commission and takes a postion that is not substantially justified, the award or an appropriate portion of the award shall be made against that agency.

# Subpart B—Information Required from Applicants
§ 148.11
Contents of application.
(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act shall identify the applicant and the adjudicatory proceeding for which an award is sought. The application shall show that the applicant has prevailed and identify the position of the Commission or other agency that the applicant alleges was not substantially justified. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application shall also state the number of employees of the applicant and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.
(b) The application shall also include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $2 million (if an individual) or $7 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates). However, an applicant may omit this statement if:
(1) It attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under such section; or
(2) It states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).
(c) The application shall state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.
(d) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes the Commission to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.
(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.
[46 FR 57671, Nov. 25, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 18880, May 23, 1986]
§ 148.12
Net worth exhibit.
(a) Each applicant except a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates (as defined in § 148.4(f) of this part) when the adjudicatory proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this part. The Presiding Officer may require an applicant to file additional information to determine its eligibility for an award.
(b) Ordinarily, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the adjudicatory proceeding. However, an applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the exhibit and believes there are legal grounds for withholding it from disclosure may submit that portion of the exhibit directly to the Presiding Officer in a sealed envelope labeled “Confidential Financial Information,” accompanied by a motion to withhold the information from public disclosure. The motion shall describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why it falls within one or more of the specific exemptions from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1)-(9), why public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the applicant, and why disclosure is not required in the public interest. The material in question shall be served on counsel representing the Commission or other agency against which the applicant seeks an award, but need not be served on any other party to the adjudicatory proceeding. If the Presiding Officer finds that the information should not be withheld from disclosure, it shall be placed in the public record of the adjudicatory proceeding. Otherwise, any request to inspect or copy
the exhibit shall be disposed of in accordance with the Commission's established procedures under the Freedom of Information Act as provided in part 145 of this chapter. For that purpose, the applicant shall file a copy of its motion with the Commission's Freedom of Information Act Compliance Staff in the Office of the Secretariat, Washington, DC.
§ 148.13
Documentation of fees and expenses.
The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses, including the cost of any study, analysis, test, project or similar matter, for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The Presiding Officer may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.
§ 148.14
When an application may be filed.
(a) An application may be filed whenever the applicant has prevailed in the adjudicatory proceeding or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, subject to the separate hearing procedure pursuant to § 10.63(b) of this chapter, but in no case later than 30 days after the Commission's final disposition of the adjudicatory proceeding.
(b) If review or reconsideration is sought or taken of a decision as to which an applicant believes it has prevailed, proceedings for the award of fees shall be stayed pending final disposition of the underlying controversy.
(c) For purposes of this rule, final disposition means the later of
(1) The date on which an initial decision by the Presiding Officer becomes final pursuant to § 10.84 of this chapter;
(2) Issuance of an order disposing of any petitions for reconsideration of the Commission's final order in the proceeding pursuant to § 10.106 of the Rules of Practice;
(3) If no petition for reconsideration is filed, the last date on which such a petition could have been filed pursuant to § 10.106 of the Rules of Practice; or
(4) Issuance of a final Commission order or any other final resolution of a proceeding, such as a settlement or voluntary dismissal, which is not subject to a petition for reconsideration.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
§ 148.21
Filing and service of documents.
Any application for an award or other pleading or document related to an application shall be filed and served on all parties to the adjudicatory proceeding, except as provided in § 148.12(b) for confidential financial information.
§ 148.22
Answer to application.
(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel representing the Commission or other agency against which an award is sought may file an answer to the application. Unless counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency requests an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of this section, failure to file an answer within the 30-day period may be treated as a consent to the award requested.
(b) If counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days, and further extensions may be granted by the Presiding Officer upon request by counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency and the applicant.
(c) Any answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of the position of counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency. If the answer is based on any
alleged facts not already in the record of the adjudicatory proceeding, counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency shall include with the answer either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 148.26 of this part.
§ 148.23
Reply.
Within 15 days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the adjudicatory proceeding, the applicant shall include with the reply either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 148.26 of this part.
§ 148.24
Comments by other parties.
Any party to an adjudicatory proceeding other than the applicant and counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency may file comments on an application within 30 days after it is served or on an answer within 15 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in proceedings on the application unless the Presiding Officer determines that the public interest requires such participation in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.
§ 148.25
Settlement.
The applicant may propose settlement of the award to the Commission before final action on the application, either in connection with a settlement of the adjudicatory proceeding, or after the adjudicatory proceeding has been concluded, in either case in accordance with § 10.108 of this chapter. If a prevailing party offers a proposed settlement of an award before an application has been filed, the application shall be filed with the proposed settlement.
§ 148.26
Further proceedings.
(a) Ordinarily, the determination of an award will be made on the basis of the written record. However, on request of either the applicant or counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency, or on his or her own initiative, the Presiding Officer may order further proceedings, such as an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions or an evidentiary hearing. Such further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application, and shall be conducted as promptly as possible. Whether or not the position of the Commission was substantially justified shall be determined on the basis of the administrative record, as a whole, which is made in the adversary adjudication for which fees and other expenses are sought. No discovery and/or evidentiary proceedings shall be permitted into the question of whether the agency's position was substantially justified.
(b) A request that the Presiding Officer order further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the information sought or the disputed issues and shall explain why additional proceedings are necessary to resolve the issues.
[46 FR 57671, Nov. 25, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 18881, May 23, 1986]
§ 148.27
Decision.
The Presiding Officer shall issue an initial decision on the application in accordance with the provisions of § 10.84 of this chapter. The decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the Commission's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly or unreasonably protracted the adjudicatory proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. If the applicant has sought an award against more than one agency, the decision shall allocate responsibility for payment of any award made among the agencies, and shall explain the reasons for the allocation made.
§ 148.28
Appeal to the Commission.
(a) Either the applicant or counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency may appeal the initial decision on the fee application by complying with the requirements of this section. An appealing party shall serve
upon opposing parties and shall file with the Proceedings Clerk a notice of appeal within fifteen (15) days after service of the initial decision. The notice need consist only of a brief statement indicating the filing party's intent to appeal the initial decision, and shall include the date upon which the initial decision was rendered, the name of the proceeding, and the docket number of the proceeding. The failure of a party timely to file and serve a notice of appeal in accordance with this paragraph, or to perfect the appeal in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall constitute a voluntary waiver of any objection to the initial decision, and of all further administrative or judicial review under these rules and the Equal Access to Justice Act.
(b) An appeal shall be perfected by the appealing party by timely filing with the Proceedings Clerk an appeal brief which meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section. An original and one copy of the appeal brief shall be filed within thirty (30) days after filing of the notice of appeal. By motion of the appealing party, the Commission may, for good cause shown, extend the time for filing the appeal brief. If the appeal brief is not filed within the time prescribed in this subparagraph, the Commission may, upon its own motion or upon motion by a party, dismiss the appeal, in which event the initial decision shall become the final decision and order of the Commission, effective upon service of the order of dismissal.
(c) The opposing party may, within thirty (30) days after service of the appeal brief, file an original and one copy of an answering brief, and serve one copy thereof, unless the time limit is extended by the Commission upon motion of the party and for good cause shown.
(d) Parties filing an appeal brief or answering brief shall meet the requirements of § 10.12 of this chapter as to form. The content of briefs shall satisfy the requirements of § 10.102(d) of this chapter, except that any party, with leave of the Commission, may file an informal document in lieu of a brief. No brief shall exceed thirty-five (35) pages in length without advance leave of the Commission.
(e) On review, the Commission may, in its discretion, consider
sua sponte
any issues arising from the record and may base its determination thereon, or limit the issues to those presented in the statement of issues in the briefs, treating those issues not raised as waived.
[51 FR 18881, May 23, 1986]
§ 148.29
Judicial review.
Judicial review of final Commission decisions on awards may be sought as provided in 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).
§ 148.30
Payment of award.
An applicant seeking payment of an award from the Commission shall submit to the Executive Director at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, a copy of the Commission's final decision granting the award, accompanied by a statement that the applicant will not seek review of the decision in the United States courts. At the same time, the applicant shall provide a copy of his submissions to counsel for the Commission. The Commission will, within 60 days of receipt of the applicant's submissions, forward to the United States Department of the Treasury a Standard Form 1166, “Voucher and Schedule of Payments,” so as to have the Treasury Department issue a check in the amount awarded in the Commission's decision, unless judicial review of the award or of the underlying decision in the adjudicatory proceeding has been sought by the applicant or any other party to the adjudicatory proceeding.
[46 FR 57671, Nov. 25, 1981, as amended at 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 149

# PART 149—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
Sec.
149.101
Purpose.
149.102
Application.
149.103
Definitions.
149.104-149.110
[Reserved]
149.111
Notice.
149.112-149.129
[Reserved]
149.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
149.131-149.139
[Reserved]
149.140
Employment.
149.141-149.148
[Reserved]
149.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
149.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
149.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
149.152-149.159
[Reserved]
149.160
Communications.
149.161-149.169
[Reserved]
149.170
Compliance procedures.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C 794, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
51 FR 22889, 22896, June 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 149.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the U.S. Postal Service.
§ 149.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 149.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alocoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been
misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, a handicapped person who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency.
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can acheive the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 149.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 149.104-149.110
[Reserved]
§ 149.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 149.112-149.129
[Reserved]
§ 149.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in
or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangments, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 149.131-149.139
[Reserved]
§ 149.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 149.141-149.148
[Reserved]
§ 149.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 149.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the
benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 149.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 149.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 149.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to handicapped persons. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 149.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide handicapped persons into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by October 21, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by August 22, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by
February 23, 1987, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 149.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 149.152-149.159
[Reserved]
§ 149.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf person (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and adminstrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 149.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible,
handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 149.161-149.169
[Reserved]
§ 149.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Executive Director of the Commission shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to the Equal Employment Opportunity Officer at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 149.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 22889, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22889, June 23, 1986; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 150

# PART 150—LIMITS ON POSITIONS
Sec.
150.1
Definitions.
150.2
Federal speculative position limits.
150.3
Exemptions.
150.4
Aggregation of positions.
150.5
Exchange-set speculative position limits and exemptions therefrom.
150.6
Scope.
150.7
[Reserved]
150.8
Severability.
150.9
Process for recognizing non-enumerated bona fide hedging transactions or positions with respect to Federal speculative position limits.
Appendix A to Part 150—List of Enumerated Bona Fide Hedges
Appendix B to Part 150—Guidance on Gross Hedging Positions and Positions Held During the Spot Period
Appendix C to Part 150—Guidance Regarding the Definition of Referenced Contract
Appendix D to Part 150—Commodities Listed as Substantially the Same for Purposes of the Term “Location Basis Contract” as Used in the Referenced Contract Definition
Appendix E to Part 150—Speculative Position Limit Levels
Appendix F to Part 150—Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance With the Requirements for Exchange-Set Limits and Position Accountability on Commodity Derivative Contracts
Appendix G to Part 150—Guidance on Spread Transaction Exemptions Granted for Contracts that are Subject to Federal Speculative Position Limits

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 5, 6, 6a, 6c, 6f, 6g, 6t, 12a, and 19, as amended by Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

# Source:
52 FR 38923, Oct. 20, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 150.1
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Bona fide hedging transaction or position
means a transaction or position in commodity derivative contracts in a physical commodity, where:
(1) Such transaction or position:
(i) Represents a substitute for transactions made or to be made, or positions taken or to be taken, at a later time in a physical marketing channel;
(ii) Is economically appropriate to the reduction of price risks in the conduct and management of a commercial enterprise; and
(iii) Arises from the potential change in the value of—
(A) Assets which a person owns, produces, manufactures, processes, or merchandises or anticipates owning, producing, manufacturing, processing, or merchandising;
(B) Liabilities which a person owes or anticipates incurring; or
(C) Services that a person provides or purchases, or anticipates providing or purchasing; or
(2) Such transaction or position qualifies as a:
(i)
Pass-through swap and pass-through swap offset pair.
Paired positions of a pass-through swap and a pass-through swap offset, where:
(A) The pass-through swap is a swap position entered into by one person for which the swap would qualify as a bona fide hedging transaction or position pursuant to paragraph (1) of this definition (the bona fide hedging swap counterparty) that is opposite another person (the pass-through swap counterparty);
(B) The pass-through swap offset:
(
1
) Is a futures contract position, option on a futures contract position, or swap position entered into by the pass-through swap counterparty; and
(
2
) Reduces the pass-through swap counterparty's price risks attendant to the pass-through swap; and
(C) With respect to the pass-through swap offset, the pass-through swap counterparty receives from the bona fide hedging swap counterparty a written representation that the pass-through swap qualifies as a bona fide hedging transaction or position pursuant to paragraph (1) of this definition, and the pass-through swap counterparty may rely in good faith on such written representation, unless the pass-through swap counterparty has information that would cause a reasonable person to question the accuracy of the representation; or
(ii)
Offset of a bona fide hedger's qualifying swap position.
A futures contract position, option on a futures contract position, or swap position entered into by a bona fide hedging swap counterparty that reduces price risks attendant to a previously-entered-into swap position that qualified as a bona fide hedging transaction or position at the time it was entered into for that counterparty pursuant to paragraph (1) of this definition.
Commodity derivative contract
means any futures contract, option on a futures contract, or swap in a commodity (other than a security futures product as defined in section 1a(45) of the Act).
Core referenced futures contract
means a futures contract that is listed in § 150.2(d).
Economically equivalent swap
means, with respect to a particular referenced contract, any swap that has identical material contractual specifications, terms, and conditions to such referenced contract.
(1) Other than as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, for the purpose of determining whether a swap is an economically equivalent swap with
respect to a particular referenced contract, the swap shall not be deemed to lack identical material contractual specifications, terms, and conditions due to different lot size specifications or notional amounts, delivery dates diverging by less than one calendar day, or different post-trade risk management arrangements.
(2) With respect to any natural gas referenced contract, for the purpose of determining whether a swap is an economically equivalent swap to such referenced contract, the swap shall not be deemed to lack identical material contractual specifications, terms, and conditions due to different lot size specifications or notional amounts, delivery dates diverging by less than two calendar days, or different post-trade risk management arrangements.
(3) With respect to any referenced contract or class of referenced contracts, the Commission may make a determination that any swap or class of swaps satisfies, or does not satisfy, this economically equivalent swap definition.
Eligible affiliate
means an entity with respect to which another person:
(1) Directly or indirectly holds either:
(i) A majority of the equity securities of such entity, or
(ii) The right to receive upon dissolution of, or the contribution of, a majority of the capital of such entity;
(2) Reports its financial statements on a consolidated basis under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, and such consolidated financial statements include the financial results of such entity; and
(3) Is required to aggregate the positions of such entity under § 150.4 and does not claim an exemption from aggregation for such entity.
Eligible entity
means a commodity pool operator; the operator of a trading vehicle which is excluded, or which itself has qualified for exclusion from the definition of the term “pool” or “commodity pool operator,” respectively, under § 4.5 of this chapter; the limited partner, limited member or shareholder in a commodity pool the operator of which is exempt from registration under § 4.13 of this chapter; a commodity trading advisor; a bank or trust company; a savings association; an insurance company; or the separately organized affiliates of any of the above entities:
(1) Which authorizes an independent account controller independently to control all trading decisions with respect to the eligible entity's client positions and accounts that the independent account controller holds directly or indirectly, or on the eligible entity's behalf, but without the eligible entity's day-to-day direction; and
(2) Which maintains:
(i) Only such minimum control over the independent account controller as is consistent with its fiduciary responsibilities to the managed positions and accounts, and necessary to fulfill its duty to supervise diligently the trading done on its behalf; or
(ii) If a limited partner, limited member or shareholder of a commodity pool the operator of which is exempt from registration under § 4.13 of this chapter, only such limited control as is consistent with its status.
Entity
means a “person” as defined in section 1a of the Act.
Excluded commodity
means an “excluded commodity” as defined in section 1a of the Act.
Futures-equivalent
means:
(1)(i) An option contract, whether an option on a futures contract or an option that is a swap, which has been:
(A) Adjusted by an economically reasonable and analytically supported exposure to price changes of the underlying referenced contract that has been computed for that option contract as of the previous day's close or the current day's close or computed contemporaneously during the trading day, and
(B) Converted to an economically equivalent amount of an open position in the underlying referenced contract.
(ii) An entity is allowed one business day to liquidate an amount of the position that is in excess of speculative position limits without being considered in violation of the speculative position limits if such excess position results from:
(A) A position that exceeds speculative position limits as a result of an option contract assignment; or
(B) A position that includes an option contract that exceeds speculative position limits when the applicable option contract is adjusted by an economically reasonable and analytically supported exposure to price changes of the underlying referenced contract as of that business day's close of trading, as long as the applicable option contract does not exceed such speculative position limits when evaluated using the previous business day's exposure to the underlying referenced contract. This paragraph (B) shall not apply if such day would be the last trading day of the spot month for the corresponding core referenced futures contract.
(2) A futures contract which has been converted to an economically equivalent amount of an open position in a core referenced futures contract; and
(3) A swap which has been converted to an economically equivalent amount of an open position in a core referenced futures contract.
Independent account controller
means a person:
(1) Who specifically is authorized by an eligible entity, as defined in this section, independently to control trading decisions on behalf of, but without the day-to-day direction of, the eligible entity;
(2) Over whose trading the eligible entity maintains only such minimum control as is consistent with its fiduciary responsibilities for managed positions and accounts to fulfill its duty to supervise diligently the trading done on its behalf or as is consistent with such other legal rights or obligations which may be incumbent upon the eligible entity to fulfill;
(3) Who trades independently of the eligible entity and of any other independent account controller trading for the eligible entity;
(4) Who has no knowledge of trading decisions by any other independent account controller; and
(5) Who is:
(i) Registered as a futures commission merchant, an introducing broker, a commodity trading advisor, or an associated person of any such registrant, or
(ii) A general partner, managing member or manager of a commodity pool the operator of which is excluded from registration under § 4.5(a)(4) of this chapter or § 4.13 of this chapter,
provided that
such general partner, managing member or manager complies with the requirements of § 150.4(c).
Long position
means, on a futures-equivalent basis, a long call option, a short put option, a long underlying futures contract, or a swap position that is equivalent to a long futures contract.
Physical commodity
means any agricultural commodity as that term is defined in § 1.3 of this chapter or any exempt commodity as that term is defined in section 1a of the Act.
Position accountability
means any bylaw, rule, regulation, or resolution that:
(1) Is submitted to the Commission pursuant to part 40 of this chapter in lieu of, or along with, a speculative position limit, and
(2) Requires an entity whose position exceeds the accountability level to consent to:
(i) Provide information about its position to the designated contract market or swap execution facility; and
(ii) Halt increasing further its position or reduce its position in an orderly manner, in each case as requested by the designated contract market or swap execution facility.
Pre-enactment swap
means any swap entered into prior to enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 (July 21, 2010), the terms of which have not expired as of the date of enactment of that Act.
Pre-existing position
means any position in a commodity derivative contract acquired in good faith prior to the effective date of any bylaw, rule, regulation, or resolution that specifies a speculative position limit level or a subsequent change to that level.
Referenced contract
means:
(1) A core referenced futures contract listed in § 150.2(d) or, on a futures-equivalent basis with respect to a particular core referenced futures contract, a futures contract or an option on a futures contract, including a spread, that is either:
(i) Directly or indirectly linked, including being partially or fully settled on, or priced at a fixed differential to,
the price of that particular core referenced futures contract; or
(ii) Directly or indirectly linked, including being partially or fully settled on, or priced at a fixed differential to, the price of the same commodity underlying that particular core referenced futures contract for delivery at the same location or locations as specified in that particular core referenced futures contract; or
(2) On a futures-equivalent basis, an economically equivalent swap.
(3) The definition of referenced contract does not include a location basis contract, a commodity index contract, any guarantee of a swap, a trade option that meets the requirements of § 32.3 of this chapter, any outright price reporting agency index contract, or any monthly average pricing contract.
Short position
means, on a futures-equivalent basis, a short call option, a long put option, a short underlying futures contract, or a swap position that is equivalent to a short futures contract.
Speculative position limit
means the maximum position, either net long or net short, in a commodity derivative contract that may be held or controlled by one person absent an exemption, whether such limits are adopted for:
(1) Combined positions in all commodity derivative contracts in a particular commodity, including the spot month futures contract and all single month futures contracts (the spot month and all single month futures contracts, cumulatively, “all-months-combined”);
(2) Positions in a single month of commodity derivative contracts in a particular commodity other than the spot month futures contract (“single month”); or
(3) Positions in the spot month of commodity derivative contacts in a particular commodity. Such a limit may be established under Federal regulations or rules of a designated contract market or swap execution facility. For referenced contracts other than core referenced futures contracts, single month means the same period as that of the relevant core referenced futures contract.
Spot month
means:
(1) For physical-delivery core referenced futures contracts, the period of time beginning at the earlier of:
(i) The close of business on the trading day preceding the first day on which delivery notices can be issued by the clearing organization of a contract market or
(ii) The close of business on the trading day preceding the third-to-last trading day and ending when the contract expires, except as follows:
(A) For the
ICE Futures U.S. Sugar No. 11
(SB) core referenced futures contract, the spot month means the period of time beginning at the opening of trading on the second business day following the expiration of the regular option contract traded on the expiring futures contract and ending when the contract expires;
(B) For the
ICE Futures U.S. Sugar No. 16
(SF) core referenced futures contract, the spot month means the period of time beginning on the third-to-last trading day of the contract month and ending when the contract expires; and
(C) For the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Live Cattle
(LC) core referenced futures contract, the spot month means the period of time beginning at the close of trading on the first business day following the first Friday of the contract month and ending when the contract expires; and
(2) For referenced contracts other than core referenced futures contracts, the spot month means the same period as that of the relevant core referenced futures contract.
Spread transaction
means an intra-market spread, inter-market spread, intra-commodity spread, or inter-commodity spread, including a calendar spread, quality differential spread, processing spread, product or by-product differential spread, or futures-option spread.
Swap
means “swap” as that term is defined in section 1a of the Act and as further defined in § 1.3 of this chapter.
Swap dealer
means “swap dealer” as that term is defined in section 1a of the Act and as further defined in § 1.3 of this chapter.
Transition period swap
means a swap entered into during the period commencing on the day of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 (July 21,
2010), and ending 60 days after the publication in the
Federal Register
of final amendments to this part implementing section 737 of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, the terms of which have not expired as of 60 days after the publication date.
[86 FR 3463, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 150.2
Federal speculative position limits.
(a)
Spot month speculative position limits.
For physical-delivery referenced contracts and, separately, for cash-settled referenced contracts, no person may hold or control positions in the spot month, net long or net short, in excess of the levels specified by the Commission.
(b)
Single month and all-months-combined speculative position limits.
For any referenced contract, no person may hold or control positions in a single month or in all-months-combined (including the spot month), net long or net short, in excess of the levels specified by the Commission.
(c)
Relevant contract month.
For purposes of this part, for referenced contracts other than core referenced futures contracts, the spot month and any single month shall be the same as those of the relevant core referenced futures contract.
(d)
Core referenced futures contracts.
Federal speculative position limits apply to referenced contracts based on the following core referenced futures contracts:
ER14JA21.023
ER14JA21.024
(e)
Establishment of speculative position limit levels.
The levels of Federal speculative position limits are fixed by the Commission at the levels listed in appendix E to this part.
(f)
Designated contract market estimates of deliverable supply.
Each designated contract market listing a core referenced futures contract shall supply to the Commission an estimated spot month deliverable supply upon request by the Commission, and may supply such estimates to the Commission at any other time. Each estimate shall be
accompanied by a description of the methodology used to derive the estimate and any statistical data supporting the estimate, and shall be submitted using the format and procedures approved in writing by the Commission. A designated contract market should use the guidance regarding deliverable supply in appendix C to part 38 of this chapter.
(g)
Pre-existing positions
—(1)
Pre-existing positions in a spot month.
A spot month speculative position limit established under this section shall apply to pre-existing positions, other than pre-enactment swaps and transition period swaps.
(2)
Pre-existing positions in a non-spot month.
A single month or all-months-combined speculative position limit established under this section shall apply to pre-existing positions, other than pre-enactment swaps and transition period swaps.
(h)
Positions on foreign boards of trade.
The speculative position limits established under this section shall apply to a person's combined positions in referenced contracts, including positions executed on, or pursuant to the rules of, a foreign board of trade, pursuant to section 4a(a)(6) of the Act,
provided that:
(1) Such referenced contracts settle against any price (including the daily or final settlement price) of one or more contracts listed for trading on a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility; and
(2) The foreign board of trade makes available such referenced contracts to its members or other participants located in the United States through direct access to its electronic trading and order matching system.
(i)
Anti-evasion provision.
For the purposes of applying the speculative position limits in this section, if used to willfully circumvent or evade speculative position limits:
(1) A commodity index contract, monthly average pricing contract, outright price reporting agency index contract, and/or a location basis contract shall be considered to be a referenced contract;
(2) A bona fide hedging transaction or position recognition or spread exemption shall no longer apply; and
(3) A swap shall be considered to be an economically equivalent swap.
(j)
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight.
(1) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority in paragraph (f) of this section to request estimated spot month deliverable supply from a designated contract market and to provide the format and procedures for submitting such estimates.
(2) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this section.
(3) Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
(k)
Eligible affiliates and aggregation.
For purposes of this part, if an eligible affiliate meets the conditions for any exemption from aggregation under § 150.4, the eligible affiliate may choose to utilize that exemption, or it may opt to be aggregated with its affiliated entities.
[86 FR 3465, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 150.3
Exemptions.
(a)
Positions which may exceed limits.
A person may exceed the speculative position limits set forth in § 150.2 to the extent that all applicable requirements in this part are met,
provided that
such person's transactions or positions each satisfy one of the following:
(1)
Bona fide hedging transactions or positions.
Positions that comply with the bona fide hedging transaction or position definition in § 150.1, and are:
(i) Enumerated in appendix A to this part; or
(ii) Approved as non-enumerated bona fide hedging transactions or positions in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section or § 150.9.
(2)
Spread transactions.
Transactions that:
(i) Meet the spread transaction definition in § 150.1; or
(ii) Do not meet the spread transaction definition in § 150.1, but have been approved by the Commission pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(3)
Financial distress positions.
Positions of a person, or a related person or persons, under financial distress circumstances, when exempted by the Commission from any of the requirements of this part in response to a specific request made pursuant to § 140.99(a)(1) of this chapter, where financial distress circumstances include, but are not limited to, situations involving the potential default or bankruptcy of a customer of the requesting person or persons, an affiliate of the requesting person or persons, or a potential acquisition target of the requesting person or persons.
(4)
Conditional spot month limit exemption positions in natural gas.
Spot month positions in natural gas cash-settled referenced contracts that exceed the spot month speculative position limit set forth in § 150.2,
provided that:
(i) Such positions do not exceed the futures-equivalent of 10,000 NYMEX Henry Hub Natural Gas core referenced futures contracts per designated contract market that lists a cash-settled referenced contract in natural gas;
(ii) Such positions do not exceed the futures-equivalent of 10,000 NYMEX Henry Hub Natural Gas core referenced futures contracts in economically equivalent swaps in natural gas; and
(iii) The person holding or controlling such positions does not hold or control positions in spot month physical-delivery referenced contracts in natural gas.
(5)
Pre-enactment and transition period swaps exemption.
The speculative position limits set forth in § 150.2 shall not apply to positions acquired in good faith in any pre-enactment swap or any transition period swap,
provided however
that a person may net such positions with post-effective date commodity derivative contracts for the purpose of complying with any non-spot month speculative position limit.
(b)
Application for relief.
Any person with a position in a referenced contract seeking recognition of such position as a bona fide hedging transaction or position in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, or seeking an exemption for a spread position in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) of this section, in each case for purposes of Federal speculative position limits set forth in § 150.2, may apply to the Commission in accordance with this section.
(1)
Required information.
The application shall include the following information:
(i) With respect to an application for recognition of a bona fide hedging transaction or position:
(A) A description of the position in the commodity derivative contract for which the application is submitted, including but not necessarily limited to, the name of the underlying commodity and the derivative position size;
(B) An explanation of the hedging strategy, including a statement that the position complies with the requirements of section 4a(c)(2) of the Act and the definition of bona fide hedging transaction or position in § 150.1, and information to demonstrate why the position satisfies such requirements and definition;
(C) A statement concerning the maximum size of all gross positions in commodity derivative contracts for which the application is submitted;
(D) A description of the applicant's activity in the cash markets and swaps markets for the commodity underlying the position for which the application is submitted, including, but not necessarily limited to, information regarding the offsetting cash positions; and
(E) Any other information that may help the Commission determine whether the position satisfies the requirements of section 4a(c)(2) of the Act and the definition of bona fide hedging transaction or position in § 150.1.
(ii) With respect to an application for a spread exemption:
(A) A description of the spread position for which the application is submitted;
(B) A statement concerning the maximum size of all gross positions in commodity derivative contracts for which the application is submitted; and
(C) Any other information that may help the Commission determine whether the position is consistent with section 4a(a)(3)(B) of the Act.
(2)
Additional information.
If the Commission determines that it requires additional information in order to determine whether to recognize a position as a bona fide hedging transaction or position or to grant a spread exemption, the Commission shall:
(i) Notify the applicant of any supplemental information required; and
(ii) Provide the applicant with ten business days in which to provide the Commission with any supplemental information.
(3)
Timing of application.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, a person seeking relief in accordance with this section must apply to the Commission and receive a notice of approval of such application prior to the date that the position for which the application was submitted would be in excess of the applicable Federal speculative position limit set forth in § 150.2;
(ii) Due to demonstrated sudden or unforeseen increases in its bona fide hedging needs, a person may apply for recognition of a bona fide hedging transaction or position within five business days after the person established the position that exceeded the applicable Federal speculative position limit.
(A) Any application filed pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section must include an explanation of the circumstances warranting the sudden or unforeseen increases in bona fide hedging needs.
(B) If an application filed pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section is denied, the person must bring its position within the Federal speculative position limits within a commercially reasonable time, as determined by the Commission in consultation with the applicant and the applicable designated contract market or swap execution facility.
(C) If an application filed pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section is denied, the Commission will not pursue an enforcement action for a position limits violation for the person holding the position during the period of the Commission's review nor once the Commission has issued its determination so long as the application was submitted in good faith and the person brings its position within the Federal speculative position limits within a commercially reasonable time in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section.
(4)
Commission determination.
After a review of any application submitted under paragraph (b) of this section and any supplemental information provided by the applicant, the Commission will determine, with respect to the transaction or position for which the application is submitted, whether to recognize all or a specified portion of such transaction or position as a bona fide hedging transaction or position or whether to exempt all or a specified portion of such spread transaction, as applicable. The Commission shall notify the applicant of its determination, and an applicant may exceed Federal speculative position limits set forth in § 150.2, or in the case of applications filed pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the applicant may rely upon the Commission's determination, upon receiving a notice of approval.
(5)
Renewal of application.
With respect to any application approved by the Commission pursuant to this section, a person shall renew such application if there are any material changes to the information provided in the original application pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section or upon request by the Commission.
(6)
Commission revocation or modification.
If the Commission determines, at any time, that a recognized bona fide hedging transaction or position is no longer consistent with section 4a(c)(2) of the Act or the definition of bona fide hedging transaction or position in § 150.1, or that a spread exemption is no longer consistent with section 4a(a)(3)(B) of the Act, the Commission shall:
(i) Notify the person holding such position;
(ii) Provide an opportunity for the applicant to respond to such notification; and
(iii) Issue a determination to revoke or modify the bona fide hedge recognition or spread exemption for purposes of Federal speculative position limits and, as applicable, require the person to reduce the derivative position within a commercially reasonable time, as
determined by the Commission in consultation with the applicant and the applicable designated contract market or swap execution facility, or otherwise come into compliance. This notification shall briefly specify the nature of the issues raised and the specific provisions of the Act or the Commission's regulations with which the position or application is, or appears to be, inconsistent.
(c)
Previously-granted risk management exemptions.
To the extent that exemptions previously granted under § 1.47 of this chapter or by a designated contract market or a swap execution facility are for the risk management of positions in financial instruments, including but not limited to index funds, such exemptions shall no longer apply as of January 1, 2023.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Persons who avail themselves of exemptions under this section shall keep and maintain complete books and records concerning all details of each of their exemptions, including relevant information about related cash, forward, futures contracts, option on futures contracts, and swap positions and transactions (including anticipated requirements, production, merchandising activities, royalties, contracts for services, cash commodity products and by-products, cross-commodity hedges, and records of bona fide hedging swap counterparties) as applicable, and shall make such books and records available to the Commission upon request under paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Any person that relies on a written representation received from another person that a swap qualifies as a pass-through swap under paragraph (2) of the definition of bona fide hedging transaction or position in § 150.1 shall keep and make available to the Commission upon request the relevant books and records of such written representation, including any books and records that the person intends to use to demonstrate that the pass-through swap is a bona fide hedging transaction or position, for a period of at least two years following the expiration of the swap.
(3) All books and records required to be kept pursuant to this section shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of § 1.31 of this chapter.
(e)
Call for information.
Upon call by the Commission, the Director of the Division of Enforcement, or the Director's delegate, any person claiming an exemption from speculative position limits under this section shall provide to the Commission such information as specified in the call relating to: the positions owned or controlled by that person; trading done pursuant to the claimed exemption; the commodity derivative contracts or cash-market positions which support the claimed exemption; and the relevant business relationships supporting a claimed exemption.
(f)
Aggregation of accounts.
Entities required to aggregate accounts or positions under § 150.4 shall be considered the same person for the purpose of determining whether they are eligible for an exemption under paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section with respect to such aggregated account or position.
(g)
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight.
(1) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time:
(i) The authority in paragraph (a)(3) of this section to provide exemptions in circumstances of financial distress;
(ii) The authority in paragraph (b)(2) of this section to request additional information with respect to a request for a bona fide hedging transaction or position recognition or spread exemption;
(iii) The authority in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section to, if applicable, determine a commercially reasonable amount of time required for a person to bring its position within the Federal speculative position limits;
(iv) The authority in paragraph (b)(4) of this section to determine whether to recognize a position as a bona fide hedging transaction or position or to grant a spread exemption; and
(v) The authority in paragraph (b)(2) or (5) of this section to request that a person submit updated materials or renew their request with the Commission.
(2) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this section.
(3) Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[86 FR 3468, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 150.4
Aggregation of positions.
(a)
Positions to be aggregated
—(1)
Trading control or 10 percent or greater ownership or equity interest.
For the purpose of applying the position limits set forth in § 150.2, unless an exemption set forth in paragraph (b) of this section applies, all positions in accounts for which any person, by power of attorney or otherwise, directly or indirectly controls trading or holds a 10 percent or greater ownership or equity interest must be aggregated with the positions held and trading done by such person. For the purpose of determining the positions in accounts for which any person controls trading or holds a 10 percent or greater ownership or equity interest, positions or ownership or equity interests held by, and trading done or controlled by, two or more persons acting pursuant to an expressed or implied agreement or understanding shall be treated the same as if the positions or ownership or equity interests were held by, or the trading were done or controlled by, a single person.
(2)
Substantially identical trading.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, for the purpose of applying the position limits set forth in § 150.2, any person that, by power of attorney or otherwise, holds or controls the trading of positions in more than one account or pool with substantially identical trading strategies, must aggregate all such positions (determined pro rata) with all other positions held and trading done by such person and the positions in accounts which the person must aggregate pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Exemptions from aggregation.
For the purpose of applying the position limits set forth in § 150.2, and notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the aggregation requirements of this section shall not apply in the circumstances set forth in this paragraph (b).
(1)
Exemption for ownership by limited partners, shareholders or other pool participants.
Any person that is a limited partner, limited member, shareholder or other similar type of pool participant holding positions in which the person by power of attorney or otherwise directly or indirectly has a 10 percent or greater ownership or equity interest in a pooled account or positions need not aggregate the accounts or positions of the pool with any other accounts or positions such person is required to aggregate, except that such person must aggregate the pooled account or positions with all other accounts or positions owned or controlled by such person if such person:
(i) Is the commodity pool operator of the pooled account;
(ii) Is a principal or affiliate of the operator of the pooled account, unless:
(A) The pool operator has, and enforces, written procedures to preclude the person from having knowledge of, gaining access to, or receiving data about the trading or positions of the pool;
(B) The person does not have direct, day-to-day supervisory authority or control over the pool's trading decisions;
(C) The person, if a principal of the operator of the pooled account, maintains only such minimum control over the commodity pool operator as is consistent with its responsibilities as a principal and necessary to fulfill its duty to supervise the trading activities of the commodity pool; and
(D) The pool operator has complied with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section on behalf of the person or class of persons; or
(iii) Has, by power of attorney or otherwise directly or indirectly, a 25 percent or greater ownership or equity interest in a commodity pool, the operator of which is exempt from registration under § 4.13 of this chapter.
(2)
Exemption for certain ownership of greater than 10 percent in an owned entity.
Any person with an ownership or equity interest in an owned entity of 10
percent or greater (other than an interest in a pooled account subject to paragraph (b)(1) of this section), need not aggregate the accounts or positions of the owned entity with any other accounts or positions such person is required to aggregate, provided that:
(i) Such person, including any entity that such person must aggregate, and the owned entity (to the extent that such person is aware or should be aware of the activities and practices of the aggregated entity or the owned entity):
(A) Do not have knowledge of the trading decisions of the other;
(B) Trade pursuant to separately developed and independent trading systems;
(C) Have and enforce written procedures to preclude each from having knowledge of, gaining access to, or receiving data about, trades of the other. Such procedures must include security arrangements, including separate physical locations, which would maintain the independence of their activities;
(D) Do not share employees that control the trading decisions of either; and
(E) Do not have risk management systems that permit the sharing of its trades or its trading strategy with employees that control the trading decisions of the other; and
(ii) Such person complies with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(3)
Exemption for accounts held by futures commission merchants.
A futures commission merchant or any affiliate of a futures commission merchant need not aggregate positions it holds in a discretionary account, or in an account which is part of, or participates in, or receives trading advice from a customer trading program of a futures commission merchant or any of the officers, partners, or employees of such futures commission merchant or of its affiliates, if:
(i) A person other than the futures commission merchant or the affiliate directs trading in such an account;
(ii) The futures commission merchant or the affiliate maintains only such minimum control over the trading in such an account as is necessary to fulfill its duty to supervise diligently trading in the account;
(iii) Each trading decision of the discretionary account or the customer trading program is determined independently of all trading decisions in other accounts which the futures commission merchant or the affiliate holds, has a financial interest of 10 percent or more in, or controls; and
(iv) The futures commission merchant or the affiliate has complied with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(4)
Exemption for accounts carried by an independent account controller.
An eligible entity need not aggregate its positions with the eligible entity's client positions or accounts carried by an authorized independent account controller, as defined in § 150.1(e), except for the spot month in physical-delivery commodity contracts, provided that the eligible entity has complied with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, and that the overall positions held or controlled by such independent account controller may not exceed the limits specified in § 150.2.
(i)
Additional requirements for exemption of affiliated entities.
If the independent account controller is affiliated with the eligible entity or another independent account controller, each of the affiliated entities must:
(A) Have, and enforce, written procedures to preclude the affiliated entities from having knowledge of, gaining access to, or receiving data about, trades of the other. Such procedures must include security arrangements, including separate physical locations, which would maintain the independence of their activities; provided, however, that such procedures may provide for the disclosure of information which is reasonably necessary for an eligible entity to maintain the level of control consistent with its fiduciary responsibilities to the managed positions and accounts
and necessary to fulfill its duty to supervise diligently the trading done on its behalf;
(B) Trade such accounts pursuant to separately developed and independent trading systems;
(C) Market such trading systems separately; and
(D) Solicit funds for such trading by separate disclosure documents that meet the standards of § 4.24 or § 4.34 of
this chapter, as applicable, where such disclosure documents are required under part 4 of this chapter.
(ii) [Reserved]
(5)
Exemption for underwriting.
A person need not aggregate the positions or accounts of an owned entity if the ownership or equity interest is based on the ownership of securities constituting the whole or a part of an unsold allotment to or subscription by such person as a participant in the distribution of such securities by the issuer or by or through an underwriter.
(6)
Exemption for broker-dealer activity.
A broker-dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or similarly registered with a foreign regulatory authority, need not aggregate the positions or accounts of an owned entity if the ownership or equity interest is based on the ownership of securities acquired in the normal course of business as a dealer,
provided that
such person does not have actual knowledge of the trading decisions of the owned entity.
(7)
Exemption for information sharing restriction.
A person need not aggregate the positions or accounts of an owned entity if the sharing of information associated with such aggregation (such as, only by way of example, information reflecting the transactions and positions of a such person and the owned entity) creates a reasonable risk that either person could violate state or federal law or the law of a foreign jurisdiction, or regulations adopted thereunder, provided that such person does not have actual knowledge of information associated with such aggregation, and provided further that such person has filed a prior notice pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section and included with such notice a written memorandum of law explaining in detail the basis for the conclusion that the sharing of information creates a reasonable risk that either person could violate state or federal law or the law of a foreign jurisdiction, or regulations adopted thereunder. However, the exemption in this paragraph shall not apply where the law or regulation serves as a means to evade the aggregation of accounts or positions. All documents submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall be in English, or if not, accompanied by an official English translation.
(8)
Exemption for affiliated entities.
After a person has filed a notice under paragraph (c) of this section, another person need not file a separate notice identifying any position or account identified in such notice filing, provided that:
(i) Such other person has an ownership or equity interest of 10 percent or greater in the person that filed the notice, or the person that filed the notice has an ownership or equity interest of 10 percent or greater in such other person, or an ownership or equity interest of 10 percent or greater is held in such other person by a third person who holds an ownership or equity interest of 10 percent or greater in the person that has filed the notice (in any such case, the ownership or equity interest may be held directly or indirectly);
(ii) Such other person complies with the conditions applicable to the exemption specified in such notice filing, other than the filing requirements; and
(iii) Such other person does not otherwise control trading of any account or position identified in such notice filing.
(iv) Upon call by the Commission, any person relying on the exemption in this paragraph (b)(8) shall provide to the Commission such information concerning the person's claim for exemption. Upon notice and opportunity for the affected person to respond, the Commission may amend, suspend, terminate, or otherwise modify a person's aggregation exemption for failure to comply with the provisions of this section.
(c)
Notice filing for exemption.
(1) Persons seeking an aggregation exemption under paragraph (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), or (b)(7) of this section shall file a notice with the Commission, which shall be effective upon submission of the notice (or earlier, as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section), and shall include:
(i) A description of the relevant circumstances that warrant disaggregation; and
(ii) A statement of a senior officer of the entity certifying that the conditions set forth in the applicable aggregation exemption provision have been met.
(2) If a person newly acquires an ownership or equity interest in an owned entity of 10 percent or greater and is eligible for the aggregation exemption under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the person may elect that a notice filed under this paragraph (c) shall be effective as of the date of such acquisition if such notice is filed no later than 60 days after such acquisition.
(3) Upon call by the Commission, any person claiming an aggregation exemption under this section shall provide such information demonstrating that the person meets the requirements of the exemption, as is requested by the Commission. Upon notice and opportunity for the affected person to respond, the Commission may amend, suspend, terminate, or otherwise modify a person's aggregation exemption for failure to comply with the provisions of this section.
(4) In the event of a material change to the information provided in any notice filed under this paragraph (c), an updated or amended notice shall promptly be filed detailing the material change.
(5) Any notice filed under this paragraph (c) shall be submitted in the form and manner provided for in paragraph (d) of this section.
(6) If a person is eligible for an aggregation exemption under paragraph (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), or (b)(7) of this section, a failure to timely file a notice under this paragraph (c) shall not constitute a violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section or any position limit set forth in § 150.2 if such notice is filed no later than five business days after the person is aware, or should be aware, that such notice has not been timely filed.
(d)
Form and manner of reporting and submitting information or filings.
Unless otherwise instructed by the Commission or its designees, any person submitting reports under this section shall submit the corresponding required filings and any other information required under this part to the Commission using the format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission procedures approved in writing by the Commission. Unless otherwise provided in this section, the notice shall be effective upon filing. When the reporting entity discovers errors or omissions to past reports, the entity shall so notify the Commission and file corrected information in a form and manner and at a time as may be instructed by the Commission or its designee.
(e)
Delegation of authority.
(1) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Enforcement, or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate, the authority:
(i) In paragraph (b)(8)(iv) of this section to call for additional information from a person claiming the exemption in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
(ii) In paragraph (c)(3) of this section to call for additional information from a person claiming an aggregation exemption under this section.
(2) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Data, with the concurrence of the Director of the Division of Enforcement, or such other employee or employees as the Directors each may designate, the authority in paragraph (d) of this section to provide instructions or determine the format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission procedures for submitting data records and any other information required under this part.
(3) The Directors of the Division of Enforcement and the Division of Data may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this section.
(4) Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[81 FR 91490, Dec. 16, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 28770, June 26, 2017; 89 FR 71819, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 150.5
Exchange-set speculative position limits and exemptions therefrom.
(a)
Requirements for exchange-set limits on commodity derivative contracts subject to Federal speculative position limits set forth in § 150.2
—(1)
Exchange-set limits.
For any commodity derivative contract that is subject to a Federal speculative position limit under § 150.2, a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility shall set a speculative position limit no higher than the level specified in § 150.2.
(2)
Exemptions to exchange-set limits.
A designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility may grant exemptions from any speculative position limits it sets under paragraph (a)(1) of this section in accordance with the following:
(i)
Exemption levels.
An exemption that conforms to an exemption the Commission identified in:
(A) Sections 150.3(a)(1)(i), (a)(2)(i), (a)(4) and (a)(5) may be granted at a level that exceeds the level of the applicable Federal limit in § 150.2;
(B) Sections 150.3(a)(1)(ii) and (a)(2)(ii) may be granted at a level that exceeds the level of the applicable Federal limit in § 150.2,
provided
the exemption is first approved in accordance with § 150.3(b) or 150.9, as applicable;
(C) Section 150.3(a)(3) may be granted at a level that exceeds the level of the applicable Federal limit in § 150.2,
provided that,
a division of the Commission has first approved such exemption pursuant to a request submitted under § 140.99(a)(1) of this chapter; and
(D) An exemption of the type that does not conform to any of the exemptions identified in § 150.3(a) must be granted at a level that does not exceed the applicable Federal limit in § 150.2 and that complies with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(G) of this section, unless the Commission has first approved such exemption pursuant to § 150.3(b) or pursuant to a request submitted under § 140.99(a)(1).
(ii)
Application for exemption from exchange-set limits.
With respect to a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility that elects to grant exemptions under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section:
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, the designated contract market or swap execution facility shall require an entity to file an application requesting such exemption in advance of the date that such position would be in excess of the limits then in effect. Such application shall include any information needed to enable the designated contract market or swap execution facility and the Commission to determine whether the facts and circumstances demonstrate that the designated contract market or swap execution facility may grant an exemption. Any application for a bona fide hedging transaction or position shall include a description of the applicant's activity in the cash markets and swaps markets for the commodity underlying the position for which the application is submitted, including, but not limited to, information regarding the offsetting cash positions.
(B) The designated contract market or swap execution facility may adopt rules that allow a person, due to demonstrated sudden or unforeseen increases in its bona fide hedging needs, to file an application to request a recognition of a bona fide hedging transaction or position within five business days after the person established the position that exceeded the applicable exchange-set speculative position limit.
(C) The designated contract market or swap execution facility must require that any application filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section include an explanation of the circumstances warranting the sudden or unforeseen increases in bona fide hedging needs.
(D) If an application filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section is denied, the applicant must bring its position within the designated contract market or swap execution facility's speculative position limits within a commercially reasonable time as determined by the designated contract market or swap execution facility.
(E) The Commission will not pursue an enforcement action for a position limits violation for the person holding the position during the period of the designated contract market or swap execution facility's review nor once the designated contract market or swap execution facility has issued its determination, so long as the application was submitted in good faith and the applicant brings its position within the designated contract market or swap
execution facility's speculative position limits within a commercially reasonable time as determined by the designated contract market or swap execution facility.
(F) The designated contract market or swap execution facility shall require, for any such exemption granted, that the entity re-apply for the exemption at least annually;
(G) The designated contract market or swap execution facility:
(
1
) May, in accordance with the designated contract market or swap execution facility's rules, deny any such application, or limit, condition, or revoke any such exemption, at any time after providing notice to the applicant, and
(
2
) Shall consider whether the requested exemption would result in positions that would not be in accord with sound commercial practices in the relevant commodity derivative market and/or that would exceed an amount that may be established and liquidated in an orderly fashion in that market; and
(H) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(G) of this section, the designated contract market or swap execution facility may grant exemptions, subject to terms, conditions, or limitations, that require a person to exit any referenced contract positions in excess of position limits during the lesser of the last five days of trading or the time period for the spot month in such physical-delivery contract, or to otherwise limit the size of such position during that time period. Designated contract markets and swap execution facilities may refer to paragraph (b) of appendix B or appendix G to part 150, for guidance regarding the foregoing, as applicable.
(3)
Exchange-set limits on pre-existing positions
—(i)
Pre-existing positions in a spot month.
A designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility shall require compliance with spot month exchange-set speculative position limits for pre-existing positions in commodity derivative contracts other than pre-enactment swaps and transition period swaps.
(ii)
Pre-existing positions in a non-spot month.
A single month or all-months-combined speculative position limit established under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall apply to any pre-existing positions in commodity derivative contracts, other than pre-enactment swaps and transition period swaps.
(4)
Monthly reports detailing the disposition of each exemption application.
(i) For commodity derivative contracts subject to Federal speculative position limits, the designated contract market or swap execution facility shall submit to the Commission a report each month showing the disposition of any exemption application, including the recognition of any position as a bona fide hedging transaction or position, the exemption of any spread transaction or other position, the renewal, revocation, or modification of a previously granted recognition or exemption, and the rejection of any application, as well as the following details for each application:
(A) The date of disposition;
(B) The effective date of the disposition;
(C) The expiration date of any recognition or exemption;
(D) Any unique identifier(s) the designated contract market or swap execution facility may assign to track the application, or the specific type of recognition or exemption;
(E) If the application is for an enumerated bona fide hedging transaction or position, the name of the enumerated bona fide hedging transaction or position listed in appendix A to this part;
(F) If the application is for a spread transaction listed in the spread transaction definition in § 150.1, the name of the spread transaction as it is listed in § 150.1;
(G) The identity of the applicant;
(H) The listed commodity derivative contract or position(s) to which the application pertains;
(I) The underlying cash commodity;
(J) The maximum size of the commodity derivative position that is recognized by the designated contract market or swap execution facility as a bona fide hedging transaction or position, specified by contract month and by the type of limit as spot month, single month, or all-months-combined, as applicable;
(K) Any size limitations or conditions established for a spread exemption or other exemption; and
(L) For a bona fide hedging transaction or position, a concise summary of the applicant's activity in the cash markets and swaps markets for the commodity underlying the commodity derivative position for which the application was submitted.
(ii) The designated contract market or swap execution facility shall submit to the Commission the information required by paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section:
(A) As specified by the Commission on the Forms and Submissions page at
www.cftc.gov
; and
(B) Using the format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission procedures approved in writing by the Commission.
(b)
Requirements for exchange-set limits on commodity derivative contracts in a physical commodity that are not subject to the limits set forth in § 150.2
—(1)
Exchange-set spot-month limits.
For any physical commodity derivative contract that is not subject to a Federal speculative position limit under § 150.2, a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility shall set a speculative position limit as follows:
(i)
Spot month speculative position limit levels.
For any commodity derivative contract subject to paragraph (b) of this section, a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility shall establish speculative position limits for the spot month no greater than 25 percent of the estimated spot month deliverable supply, calculated separately for each month to be listed.
(ii)
Additional sources for compliance.
Alternatively, a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility may submit rules to the Commission establishing spot month speculative position limits other than as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, provided that each limit is set at a level that is necessary and appropriate to reduce the potential threat of market manipulation or price distortion of the contract's or the underlying commodity's price or index.
(2)
Exchange-set limits or accountability outside of the spot month
—(i)
Non-spot month speculative position limit or accountability levels.
For any commodity derivative contract subject to paragraph (b) of this section, a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility shall adopt either speculative position limits or position accountability outside of the spot month at a level that is necessary and appropriate to reduce the potential threat of market manipulation or price distortion of the contract's or the underlying commodity's price or index.
(ii)
Additional sources for compliance.
A designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility may refer to the non-exclusive acceptable practices in paragraph (b) of appendix F of this part to demonstrate to the Commission compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Look-alike contracts.
For any newly listed commodity derivative contract subject to paragraph (b) of this section that is substantially the same as an existing contract listed on a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility, the designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility listing such newly listed contract shall adopt spot month, individual month, and all-months-combined speculative position limits comparable to those of the existing contract. Alternatively, if such designated contract market or swap execution facility seeks to adopt speculative position limits that are not comparable to those of the existing contract, such designated contract market or swap execution facility shall demonstrate to the Commission how the levels comply with paragraphs (b)(1) and/or (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Exemptions to exchange-set limits.
A designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility may grant exemptions from any speculative position limits it sets under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section in accordance with the following:
(i) An entity seeking an exemption shall be required to apply to the designated contract market or swap execution facility for any such exemption from its speculative position limit rules; and
(ii) A designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility may deny any such application, or limit, condition, or revoke any such exemption, at any time after providing notice to the applicant. Such designated contract market or swap execution facility shall consider whether the requested exemption would result in positions that would not be in accord with sound commercial practices in the relevant commodity derivative market and/or would exceed an amount that may be established and liquidated in an orderly fashion in that market.
(c)
Requirements for security futures products.
For security futures products, speculative position limits and position accountability requirements are specified in § 41.25 of this chapter.
(d)
Rules on aggregation.
For commodity derivative contracts in a physical commodity, a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility shall have aggregation rules that conform to § 150.4.
(e)
Requirements for submissions to the Commission.
In order for a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility to adopt speculative position limits and/or position accountability pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and/or to elect to offer exemptions from any such levels pursuant to such paragraphs, the designated contract market or swap execution facility shall submit to the Commission pursuant to part 40 of this chapter rules establishing such levels and/or exemptions. To the extent that a designated contract market or swap execution facility adopts speculative position limit levels, such part 40 submission shall also include the methodology by which such levels are calculated. The designated contract market or swap execution facility shall review such speculative position limit levels regularly for compliance with this section and update such speculative position limit levels as needed.
(f)
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight
—(1)
Commission delegations.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section to provide instructions regarding the submission to the Commission of information required to be reported, pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, by a designated contract market or swap execution facility, to specify the manner for submitting such information on the Forms and Submissions page at
www.cftc.gov
, and to determine the format, coding structure, and electronic data transmission procedures for submitting such information.
(2)
Commission consideration of delegated matter.
The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this section.
(3)
Commission authority.
Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[86 FR 3470, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 150.6
Scope.
This part shall only be construed as having an effect on speculative position limits set by the Commission or by a designated contract market or swap execution facility, including any associated recordkeeping and reporting regulations in this chapter. Nothing in this part shall be construed to relieve any designated contract market, swap execution facility, or its governing board from responsibility under section 5(d)(4) of the Act to prevent manipulation and corners. Further, nothing in this part shall be construed to affect any other provisions of the Act or Commission regulations, including, but not limited to, those relating to actual or attempted manipulation, corners, squeezes, fraudulent or deceptive conduct, or to prohibited transactions.
[86 FR 3472, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 150.7
[Reserved]
§ 150.8
Severability.
If any provision of this part, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of other provisions or the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application.
[86 FR 3472, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 150.9
Process for recognizing non-enumerated bona fide hedging transactions or positions with respect to Federal speculative position limits.
For purposes of Federal speculative position limits, a person with a position in a referenced contract seeking recognition of such position as a non-enumerated bona fide hedging transaction or position, in accordance with § 150.3(a)(1)(ii), shall apply to the Commission, pursuant to § 150.3(b), or apply to a designated contract market or swap execution facility in accordance with this section. If such person submits an application to a designated contract market or swap execution facility in accordance with this section, and the designated contract market or swap execution facility, with respect to its own speculative position limits established pursuant to § 150.5(a), recognizes the person's position as a non-enumerated bona fide hedging transaction or position, then the person may also exceed the applicable Federal speculative position limit for such position in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. The designated contract market or swap execution facility may approve such applications only if the designated contract market or swap execution facility complies with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(a)
Approval of rules.
The designated contract market or swap execution facility must maintain rules that establish application processes and conditions for recognizing bona fide hedging transactions or positions consistent with the requirements of this section, and must seek approval of such rules from the Commission pursuant to § 40.5 of this chapter.
(b)
Prerequisites for a designated contract market or swap execution facility to recognize a bona fide hedging transaction or position in accordance with this section.
(1) The designated contract market or swap execution facility lists the applicable referenced contract for trading;
(2) The position meets the definition of bona fide hedging transaction or position in section 4a(c)(2) of the Act and the definition of bona fide hedging transaction or position in § 150.1; and
(3) The designated contract market or swap execution facility does not recognize as a bona fide hedging transaction or position any position involving a commodity index contract and one or more referenced contracts, including exemptions known as risk management exemptions.
(c)
Application process.
The designated contract market or swap execution facility's application process meets the following conditions:
(1)
Required application information.
The designated contract market or swap execution facility requires the applicant to provide, and can obtain from the applicant, all information needed to enable the designated contract market or swap execution facility and the Commission to determine whether the facts and circumstances demonstrate that the designated contract market or swap execution facility may recognize a position as a bona fide hedging transaction or position, including the following:
(i) A description of the position in the commodity derivative contract for which the application is submitted, including but not limited to, the name of the underlying commodity and the derivative position size;
(ii) An explanation of the hedging strategy, including a statement that the position complies with the requirements of section 4a(c)(2) of the Act and the definition of bona fide hedging transaction or position in § 150.1, and information to demonstrate why the position satisfies such requirements and definition;
(iii) A statement concerning the maximum size of all gross positions in
commodity derivative contracts for which the application is submitted;
(iv) A description of the applicant's activity in the cash markets and the swaps markets for the commodity underlying the position for which the application is submitted, including, but not limited to, information regarding the offsetting cash positions; and
(v) Any other information the designated contract market or swap execution facility requires, in its discretion, to determine that the position complies with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as applicable.
(2)
Timing of application.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the designated contract market or swap execution facility requires the applicant to submit an application and receive a notice of approval of such application from the designated contract market or swap execution facility prior to the date that the position for which such application was submitted would be in excess of the applicable Federal speculative position limits.
(ii) A designated contract market or swap execution facility may adopt rules that allow a person, due to demonstrated sudden or unforeseen increases in its bona fide hedging needs, to file an application with the designated contract market or swap execution facility to request a recognition of a bona fide hedging transaction or position within five business days after the person established the position that exceeded the applicable Federal speculative position limit.
(A) The designated contract market or swap execution facility must require that any application filed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section include an explanation of the circumstances warranting the sudden or unforeseen increases in bona fide hedging needs.
(B) If an application filed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section is denied by the designated contract market, swap execution facility, or Commission, the applicant must bring its position within the applicable Federal speculative position limits within a commercially reasonable time as determined by the Commission in consultation with the applicant and the applicable designated contract market or swap execution facility.
(C) The Commission will not pursue an enforcement action for a position limits violation for the person holding the position during the period of the designated contract market, swap execution facility, or Commission's review nor once a determination has been issued, so long as the application was submitted in good faith and the person complies with paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(3)
Renewal of applications.
The designated contract market or swap execution facility requires each applicant to reapply with the designated contract market or swap execution facility to maintain such recognition at least on an annual basis by updating the initial application, and to receive a notice of extension of the original approval from the designated contract market or swap execution facility to continue relying on such recognition for purposes of Federal speculative position limits. If the facts and circumstances underlying a renewal application are materially different than the initial application, the designated contract market or swap execution facility is required to treat such application as a new request submitted through the § 150.9 process and subject to the Commission's 10/2-day review process in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4)
Exchange revocation authority.
The designated contract market or swap execution facility retains its authority to limit, condition, or revoke, at any time after providing notice to the applicant, any bona fide hedging transaction or position recognition for purposes of the designated contract market or swap execution facility's speculative position limits established under § 150.5(a), for any reason as determined in the discretion of the designated contract market or swap execution facility, including if the designated contract market or swap execution facility determines that the position no longer meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
(1) The designated contract market or swap execution facility keeps full, complete, and systematic records, which include all pertinent data and memoranda, of all activities relating to the processing of such applications and the disposition thereof. Such records include:
(i) Records of the designated contract market's or swap execution facility's recognition of any derivative position as a bona fide hedging transaction or position, revocation or modification of any such recognition, or the rejection of an application;
(ii) All information and documents submitted by an applicant in connection with its application, including documentation and information that is submitted after the disposition of the application, and any withdrawal, supplementation, or update of any application;
(iii) Records of oral and written communications between the designated contract market or swap execution facility and the applicant in connection with such application; and
(iv) All information and documents in connection with the designated contract market or swap execution facility's analysis of, and action(s) taken with respect to, such application.
(2) All books and records required to be kept pursuant to this section shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of § 1.31 of this chapter.
(e)
Process for a person to exceed Federal speculative position limits on a referenced contract
—(1)
Notification to the Commission.
The designated contract market or swap execution facility must submit to the Commission a notification of each initial determination to recognize a bona fide hedging transaction or position in accordance with this section, concurrently with the notice of such determination the designated contract market or swap execution facility provides to the applicant.
(2)
Notification requirements.
The notification in paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) Name of the applicant;
(ii) Brief description of the bona fide hedging transaction or position being recognized;
(iii) Name of the contract(s) relevant to the recognition;
(iv) The maximum size of the position that may exceed Federal speculative position limits;
(v) The effective date and expiration date of the recognition;
(vi) An indication regarding whether the position may be maintained during the last five days of trading during the spot month, or the time period for the spot month; and
(vii) A copy of the application and any supporting materials.
(3)
Exceeding Federal speculative position limits on referenced contracts.
A person may exceed Federal speculative position limits on a referenced contract after the designated contract market or swap execution facility issues the notification required pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, unless the Commission notifies the designated contract market or swap execution facility and the applicant otherwise, pursuant to paragraph (e)(5) or (6) of this section, before the ten business day period expires.
(4)
Exceeding Federal speculative position limits on referenced contracts due to sudden or unforeseen circumstances.
If a person files an application for a recognition of a bona fide hedging transaction or position in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, then such person may rely on the designated contract market or swap execution facility's determination to grant such recognition for purposes of Federal speculative position limits two business days after the designated contract market or swap execution facility issues the notification required pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, unless the Commission notifies the designated contract market or swap execution facility and the applicant otherwise, pursuant to paragraph (e)(5) or (6) of this section, before the two business day period expires.
(5)
Commission stay of pending applications and requests for additional information.
The Commission may stay an application that requires additional time to analyze, and/or may request additional information to determine whether the position for which the application is submitted meets the conditions
set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. The Commission shall notify the applicable designated contract market or swap execution facility and the applicant of a Commission determination to stay the application and/or request any supplemental information, and shall provide an opportunity for the applicant to respond. The Commission will have an additional 45 days from the date of the stay notification to conduct the review and issue a determination with respect to the application. If the Commission stays an application and the applicant has not yet exceeded Federal speculative position limits, then the applicant may not exceed Federal speculative position limits unless the Commission approves the application. If the Commission stays an application and the applicant has already exceeded Federal speculative position limits, then the applicant may continue to maintain the position unless the Commission notifies the designated contract market or swap execution facility and the applicant otherwise, pursuant to paragraph (e)(6) of this section.
(6)
Commission determination for pending applications.
If, during the Commission's ten or two business day review period in paragraphs (e)(3) and (4) of this section, the Commission determines that a position for which the application is submitted does not meet the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the Commission shall:
(i) Notify the designated contract market or swap execution facility and the applicant within ten or two business days, as applicable, after the designated contract market or swap execution facility issues the notification required pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section;
(ii) Provide an opportunity for the applicant to respond to such notification;
(iii) Issue a determination to deny the application, or limit or condition the application approval for purposes of Federal speculative position limits and, as applicable, require the person to reduce the derivatives position within a commercially reasonable time, as determined by the Commission in consultation with the applicant and the applicable designated contract market or swap execution facility, or otherwise come into compliance; and
(iv) The Commission will not pursue an enforcement action for a position limits violation for the person holding the position during the period of the Commission's review nor once the Commission has issued its determination, so long as the application was submitted in good faith and the person complies with any requirement to reduce the position pursuant to paragraph (e)(6)(iii) of this section, as applicable.
(f)
Commission revocation of applications previously approved.
(1) If a designated contract market or a swap execution facility limits, conditions, or revokes any recognition of a bona fide hedging transaction or position for purposes of the respective designated contract market's or swap execution facility's speculative position limits established under § 150.5(a), then such recognition will also be deemed limited, conditioned, or revoked for purposes of Federal speculative position limits.
(2) If the Commission determines, at any time, that a position that has been recognized as a bona fide hedging transaction or position for purposes of Federal speculative position limits is no longer consistent with section 4a(c)(2) of the Act or the definition of bona fide hedging transaction or position in § 150.1, the following applies:
(i) The Commission shall notify the person holding the position and the relevant designated contract market or swap execution facility. After providing such person and such designated contract market or swap execution facility an opportunity to respond, the Commission may, in its discretion, limit, condition, or revoke its determination for purposes of Federal speculative position limits and require the person to reduce the derivatives position within a commercially reasonable time as determined by the Commission in consultation with such person and such designated contract market or swap execution facility, or otherwise come into compliance;
(ii) The Commission shall include in its notification a brief explanation of the nature of the issues raised and the
specific provisions of the Act or the Commission's regulations with which the position or application is, or appears to be, inconsistent; and
(iii) The Commission will not pursue an enforcement action for a position limits violation for the person holding the position during the period of the Commission's review, nor once the Commission has issued its determination, provided the person submitted the application in good faith and reduces the position within a commercially reasonable time, as determined by the Commission in consultation with such person and the relevant designated contract market or swap execution facility, or otherwise comes into compliance.
(g)
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight
—(1)
Commission delegations.
The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight, or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority to request additional information, pursuant to paragraph (e)(5) of this section, from the applicable designated contract market or swap execution facility and applicant.
(2)
Commission consideration of delegated matter.
The Director of the Division of Market Oversight may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated in this section.
(3)
Commission authority.
Nothing in this section prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this section.
[86 FR 3472, Jan. 14, 2021]
Pt. 150, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 150—List of Enumerated Bona Fide Hedges
Pursuant to § 150.3(a)(1)(i), positions that comply with the bona fide hedging transaction or position definition in § 150.1 and that are enumerated in this appendix A may exceed Federal speculative position limits to the extent that all applicable requirements in this part are met. A person holding such positions enumerated in this appendix A may exceed Federal speculative position limits for such positions without requesting prior approval under § 150.3 or § 150.9. A person holding such positions that are not enumerated in this appendix A must request and obtain approval pursuant to § 150.3 or § 150.9 prior to exceeding the applicable Federal speculative position limits—unless such positions qualify for the retroactive approval process, and the person seeks retroactive approval in accordance with § 150.3 or § 150.9.
The enumerated bona fide hedges do not state the exclusive means for establishing compliance with the bona fide hedging transaction or position definition in § 150.1 or with the requirements of § 150.3(a)(1).
(a)
Enumerated hedges
—(1)
Hedges of inventory and cash commodity fixed-price purchase contracts.
Short positions in commodity derivative contracts that do not exceed in quantity the sum of the person's ownership of inventory and fixed-price purchase contracts in the commodity derivative contracts' underlying cash commodity.
(2)
Hedges of cash commodity fixed-price sales contracts.
Long positions in commodity derivative contracts that do not exceed in quantity the sum of the person's fixed-price sales contracts in the commodity derivative contracts' underlying cash commodity and the quantity equivalent of fixed-price sales contracts of the cash products and by-products of such commodity.
(3)
Hedges of offsetting unfixed-price cash commodity sales and purchases.
Both short and long positions in commodity derivative contracts that do not exceed in quantity the amount of the commodity derivative contracts' underlying cash commodity that has been both bought and sold by the same person at unfixed prices:
(i) Basis different delivery months in the same commodity derivative contract; or
(ii) Basis different commodity derivative contracts in the same commodity, regardless of whether the commodity derivative contracts are in the same calendar month.
(4)
Hedges of unsold anticipated production.
Short positions in commodity derivative contracts that do not exceed in quantity the person's unsold anticipated production of the commodity derivative contracts' underlying cash commodity.
(5)
Hedges of unfilled anticipated requirements.
Long positions in commodity derivative contracts that do not exceed in quantity the person's unfilled anticipated requirements for the commodity derivative contracts' underlying cash commodity, for processing, manufacturing, or use by that person, or for resale by a utility as it pertains to the utility's obligations to meet the unfilled anticipated demand of its customers for the customer's use.
(6)
Hedges of anticipated merchandising.
Long or short positions in commodity derivative contracts that offset the anticipated change in value of the underlying commodity that a person anticipates purchasing or selling,
provided that:
(i) The positions in the commodity derivative contracts do not exceed in quantity twelve months' of current or anticipated
purchase or sale requirements of the same cash commodity that is anticipated to be purchased or sold; and
(ii) The person is a merchant handling the underlying commodity that is subject to the anticipatory merchandising hedge, and that such merchant is entering into the position solely for purposes related to its merchandising business and has a demonstrated history of buying and selling the underlying commodity for its merchandising business.
(7)
Hedges by agents.
Long or short positions in commodity derivative contracts by an agent who does not own or has not contracted to sell or purchase the commodity derivative contracts' underlying cash commodity at a fixed price,
provided that
the agent is responsible for merchandising the cash positions that are being offset in commodity derivative contracts and the agent has a contractual arrangement with the person who owns the commodity or holds the cash-market commitment being offset.
(8)
Hedges of anticipated mineral royalties.
Short positions in a person's commodity derivative contracts offset by the anticipated change in value of mineral royalty rights that are owned by that person,
provided that
the royalty rights arise out of the production of the commodity underlying the commodity derivative contracts.
(9)
Hedges of anticipated services.
Short or long positions in a person's commodity derivative contracts offset by the anticipated change in value of receipts or payments due or expected to be due under an executed contract for services held by that person,
provided that
the contract for services arises out of the production, manufacturing, processing, use, or transportation of the commodity underlying the commodity derivative contracts.
(10)
Offsets of commodity trade options.
Long or short positions in commodity derivative contracts that do not exceed in quantity, on a futures-equivalent basis, a position in a commodity trade option that meets the requirements of § 32.3 of this chapter. Such commodity trade option transaction, if it meets the requirements of § 32.3 of this chapter, may be deemed, for purposes of complying with this paragraph (a)(10) of this appendix A, as either a cash commodity purchase or sales contract as set forth in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this appendix A, as applicable.
(11)
Cross-commodity hedges.
Positions in commodity derivative contracts described in paragraph (2) of the bona fide hedging transaction or position definition in § 150.1 or in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this appendix A may also be used to offset the risks arising from a commodity other than the cash commodity underlying the commodity derivative contracts,
provided that
the fluctuations in value of the cash commodity underlying the commodity derivative contracts, shall be substantially related to the fluctuations in value of the actual or anticipated cash commodity position or a pass-through swap.
(b) [Reserved]
[86 FR 3475, Jan. 14, 2021]
Pt. 150, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 150—Guidance on Gross Hedging Positions and Positions Held During the Spot Period
(a)
Guidance on gross hedging positions.
(1) A person's gross hedging positions may be deemed in compliance with the bona fide hedging transaction or position definition in § 150.1, whether enumerated or non-enumerated,
provided that
all applicable regulatory requirements are met, including that the position is economically appropriate to the reduction of risks in the conduct and management of a commercial enterprise and otherwise satisfies the bona fide hedging definition in § 150.1, and
provided further that:
(i) The manner in which the person measures risk is consistent and follows historical practice for that person;
(ii) The person is not measuring risk on a gross basis to evade the speculative position limits in § 150.2 or the aggregation rules in § 150.4; and
(iii) The person is able to demonstrate compliance with paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this appendix, including by providing justifications for measuring risk on a gross basis, upon the request of the Commission and/or of a designated contract market, including by providing information regarding the entities with which the person aggregates positions.
(b)
Guidance regarding positions held during the spot period.
The regulations governing exchange-set speculative position limits and exemptions therefrom under § 150.5(a)(2)(ii)(D) provide that designated contract markets and swap execution facilities (“exchanges”) may impose restrictions on bona fide hedging transaction or position exemptions to require the person to exit any such positions in excess of limits during the lesser of the last five days of trading or the time period for the spot month in such physical-delivery contract, or otherwise limit the size of such position. This guidance is intended to provide factors the Commission believes exchanges should consider when determining whether to impose a five-day rule or similar restriction but is not intended to be used as a mandatory checklist. The exchanges may consider whether:
(1) The position complies with the bona fide hedging transaction or position definition in § 150.1, whether enumerated or non-enumerated;
(2) There is an economically appropriate need to maintain such position in excess of
Federal speculative position limits during the spot period for such contract, and such need relates to the purchase or sale of a cash commodity; and
(3) The person wishing to exceed Federal position limits during the spot period:
(i) Intends to make or take delivery during that time period;
(ii) Has the ability to take delivery for any long position at levels that are economically appropriate (
i.e.,
the delivery comports with the person's demonstrated need for the commodity and the contract is the most economical source for that commodity);
(iii) Has the ability to deliver against any short position (
i.e.,
has inventory on hand in a deliverable location and in a condition in which the commodity can be used upon delivery and that delivery against futures contracts is economically appropriate, as it is the best sales option for that inventory).
[86 FR 3475, Jan. 14, 2021]
Pt. 150, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 150—Guidance Regarding the Definition of Referenced Contract
This appendix C provides guidance regarding the “referenced contract” definition in § 150.1, which provides in paragraph (3) of the definition of referenced contract that the term referenced contract does not include a location basis contract, a commodity index contract, a swap guarantee, a trade option that meets the requirements of § 32.3 of this chapter, a monthly average pricing contract, or an outright price reporting agency index contract. The term “referenced contract” is used throughout part 150 of the Commission's regulations to refer to contracts that are subject to Federal position limits. A position in a contract that is not a referenced contract is not subject to Federal position limits, and, as a consequence, cannot be netted with positions in referenced contracts for purposes of Federal position limits. This guidance is intended to clarify the types of contracts that would qualify as a location basis contract, commodity index contract, monthly average pricing contract, or outright price reporting agency index contract.
Compliance with this guidance does not diminish or replace, in any event, the obligations and requirements of any person to comply with the regulations provided under this part, or any other part of the Commission's regulations. The guidance is for illustrative purposes only and does not state the exclusive means for a contract to qualify, or not qualify, as a referenced contract as defined in § 150.1, or to comply with any other provision in this part.
(a)
Guidance.
(1) As provided in paragraph (3) of the “referenced contract” definition in § 150.1, the following types of contracts are not deemed referenced contracts, meaning such contracts are not subject to Federal position limits and cannot be netted with positions in referenced contracts for purposes of Federal position limits: location basis contracts; commodity index contracts; swap guarantees; trade options that meet the requirements of § 32.3 of this chapter; monthly average pricing contracts; and outright price reporting agency index contracts.
(2)
Location basis contract.
For purposes of the referenced contract definition in § 150.1, a location basis contract means a commodity derivative contract that is cash-settled based on the difference in:
(i) The price, directly or indirectly, of:
(A) A particular core referenced futures contract; or
(B) A commodity deliverable on a particular core referenced futures contract, whether at par, a fixed discount to par, or a premium to par; and
(ii) The price, at a different delivery location or pricing point than that of the same particular core referenced futures contract, directly or indirectly, of:
(A) A commodity deliverable on the same particular core referenced futures contract, whether at par, a fixed discount to par, or a premium to par; or
(B) A commodity that is listed in appendix D to this part as substantially the same as a commodity underlying the same core referenced futures contract.
(3)
Commodity index contract.
For purposes of the referenced contract definition in § 150.1, a commodity index contract means an agreement, contract, or transaction that is based on an index comprised of prices of commodities that are not the same or substantially the same, and that is not a location basis contract, a calendar spread contract, or an intercommodity spread contract as such terms are defined in this guidance, where:
(i) A calendar spread contract means a cash-settled agreement, contract, or transaction that represents the difference between the settlement price in one or a series of contract months of an agreement, contract, or transaction and the settlement price of another contract month or another series of contract months' settlement prices for the same agreement, contract, or transaction; and
(ii) An intercommodity spread contract means a cash-settled agreement, contract, or transaction that represents the difference between the settlement price of a referenced contract and the settlement price of another contract, agreement, or transaction that is based on a different commodity.
(4)
Monthly average pricing contract
means a contract that satisfies one of the following:
(i) The contract's price is calculated based on the equally-weighted arithmetic average
of the daily prices of the underlying referenced contract for the entire corresponding calendar month or trade month, as applicable; or
(ii) In determining the price of such contract, the component daily prices, in the aggregate, during the spot month of the underlying referenced contract comprise no more than 40 percent of such contract's weighting.
(5)
Outright price reporting agency index contract
means any outright commodity derivative contract whose settlement price is based solely on an index published by a price reporting agency that surveys cash-market transaction prices,
provided, however,
that this term does not include any commodity derivative contract that settles at a basis, or differential, between a referenced contract and a price reporting agency index.
(b) [Reserved]
[86 FR 3475, Jan. 14, 2021]
Pt. 150, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 150—Commodities Listed as Substantially the Same for Purposes of the Term “Location Basis Contract” as Used in the Referenced Contract Definition
The following table lists each relevant core referenced futures contract and associated commodities that are treated as substantially the same as a commodity underlying a core referenced futures contract for purposes of the term “location basis contract” as such term is used in the referenced contract definition under § 150.1, and as such term is discussed in appendix C to this part.
ER14JA21.025
ER14JA21.026
ER14JA21.027
[86 FR 3475, Jan. 14, 2021]
Pt. 150, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 150—Speculative Position Limit Levels
ER14JA21.028
1
Step-down spot month limits apply to positions net long or net short as follows: 600 contracts at the close of trading on the first business day following the first Friday of the contract month; 300 contracts at the close of trading on the business day prior to the last five trading days of the contract month; and 200 contracts at the close of trading on the business day prior to the last two trading days of the contract month.
ER14JA21.029
2
For persons that are not availing themselves of the § 150.3(a)(4) conditional spot month limit exemption in natural gas, the 2,000 contract spot month speculative position limit level applies to: (1) the physically-settled NYMEX Henry Hub Natural Gas (NG) core referenced futures contract and any other physically-settled contract that qualifies as a referenced contract to NYMEX Henry Hub Natural Gas (NG) under the definition of “referenced contract” under § 150.1, in the aggregate across all exchanges listing a physically-settled NYMEX Henry Hub Natural Gas (NG) referenced contract and the OTC swaps market, net long or net short; and (2) the cash-settled NYMEX Henry Hub Natural Gas (NG) referenced contracts, net long or net short, on a per-exchange basis for each exchange that lists one or more cash-settled NYMEX Henry Hub Natural Gas (NG) referenced contract(s) rather than aggregated across such exchanges. Further, an additional 2,000 contract limit, net long or net short, applies across all cash-settled economically equivalent NYMEX Henry Hub Natural Gas (NG) OTC swaps.
3
Step-down spot month limits apply to positions net long or net short as follows: 6,000
contracts at the close of trading three business days prior to the last trading day of the contract; 5,000 contracts at the close of trading two business days prior to the last trading day of the contract; and 4,000 contracts at the close of trading one business day prior to the last trading day of the contract.
[86 FR 3475, Jan. 14, 2021]
Pt. 150, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 150—Guidance on, and Acceptable Practices in, Compliance With the Requirements for Exchange-Set Limits and Position Accountability on Commodity Derivative Contracts
The following are guidance and acceptable practices for compliance with § 150.5. Compliance with the acceptable practices and guidance does not diminish or replace, in any event, the obligations and requirements of the person to comply with the other regulations provided under this part. The acceptable practices and guidance are for illustrative purposes only and do not state the exclusive means for establishing compliance with § 150.5.
(a)
Acceptable practices for compliance with § 150.5(b)(2)(i) regarding exchange-set limits or accountability outside of the spot month.
A designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility may satisfy § 150.5(b)(2)(i) by complying with either of the following acceptable practices:
(1)
Non-spot month speculative position limits.
For any commodity derivative contract subject to § 150.5(b), a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility sets individual single month or all-months-combined levels no greater than any one of the following:
(i) The average of historical position sizes held by speculative traders in the contract as a percentage of the average combined futures and delta-adjusted option month-end open interest for that contract for the most recent calendar year;
(ii) The level of the spot month limit for the contract;
(iii) 5,000 contracts (scaled-down proportionally to the notional quantity per contract relative to the typical cash-market transaction if the notional quantity per contract is larger than the typical cash-market transaction, and scaled up proportionally to the notional quantity per contract relative to the typical cash-market transaction if the notional quantity per contract is smaller than the typical cash-market transaction); or
(iv) 10 percent of the average combined futures and delta-adjusted option month-end open interest in the contract for the most recent calendar year up to 50,000 contracts, with a marginal increase of 2.5 percent of open interest thereafter.
(2)
Non-spot month position accountability.
For any commodity derivative contract subject to § 150.5(b), a designated contract market or swap execution facility that is a trading facility adopts position accountability, as defined in § 150.1.
(b) [Reserved]
[86 FR 3475, Jan. 14, 2021]
Pt. 150, App. G

# Appendix G to Part 150—Guidance on Spread Transaction Exemptions Granted for Contracts that are Subject to Federal Speculative Position Limits
Positions that comply with § 150.3(a)(2)(i) or (ii) may exceed Federal speculative position limits, provided that the entity separately requests a spread transaction exemption from the relevant exchange's position limits established pursuant to proposed § 150.5(a). The following provides guidance to exchanges and market participants on the use of spread transaction exemptions granted pursuant to § 150.5(a). Exchanges and market participants may also consider this guidance for purposes of spread transaction exemptions granted pursuant to § 150.5(b). The following guidance includes recommendations for exchanges and market participants to consider when granting or relying on spread transaction exemptions for positions that include referenced contracts that are subject to Federal speculative position limits.
(a)
General guidance on spread transaction exemptions for referenced contracts.
(1) When granting spread transaction exemptions pursuant to § 150.5(a), an exchange should:
(i) Collect sufficient information from the market participant to be able to:
(A) Understand the spread strategy, consistent with § 150.5(a)(2)(ii)(A); and
(B) Verify that there is a material economic relationship between the legs of the spread transaction, consistent with the requirement in § 150.5(a)(2)(ii)(G) to grant exemptions in accordance with sound commercial practices;
(ii) Consider whether granting the spread transaction exemption would, to the maximum extent practicable:
(A) Ensure sufficient market liquidity for bona fide hedgers; and
(B) Not unduly reduce the effectiveness of Federal speculative position limits to:
(
1
) Diminish, eliminate, or prevent excessive speculation;
(
2
) Deter and prevent market manipulations, squeezes, and corners; and
(
3
) Ensure that the price discovery function of the underlying market is not disrupted;
(iii) Consider implementing safeguards to ensure that when granting spread transaction exemptions, especially during the
spot period, the exchange is able to comply with all statutory and regulatory obligations, including the requirements of:
(A) DCM Core Principle 2 and SEF Core Principle 2, as applicable, to, among other things, prohibit abusive trading practices on its markets by members and market participants, and prohibit any other manipulative or disruptive trading practices prohibited by the Act or Commission regulations;
(B) DCM Core Principle 4 and SEF Core Principle 4, as applicable, to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of the delivery or cash-settlement process through market surveillance, compliance, and enforcement practices and procedures;
(C) DCM Core Principle 5 and SEF Core Principle 6, as applicable, to implement exchange-set position limits in a manner that reduces the potential threat of market manipulation or congestion; and
(D) DCM Core Principle 12, as applicable, to protect markets and market participants from abusive practices committed by any party, including abusive practices committed by a party acting as an agent for a participant; and to promote fair and equitable trading on the contract market;
(iv) Ensure that any spread exemption transaction does not impede convergence or facilitate the formation of artificial prices; and
(v) Provide a cap or limit on the maximum size of all gross positions permitted under the spread transaction exemption.
(2) The Commission reminds market participants that when utilizing a spread transaction exemption, compliance with Federal speculative position limits or an exemption thereto does not confer any type of safe harbor or good faith defense to a claim that the participant has engaged in an attempted or perfected manipulation or willfully circumvented or evaded speculative position limits, consistent with the Commission's anti-evasion provision in § 150.2(i).
(b)
Guidance on transactions permitted under the spread transaction definition.
(1) The Commission understands that market participants are generally familiar with the meaning of intra-market spreads, inter-market spreads, intra-commodity spreads, and inter-commodity spreads, as those terms are used in the spread transaction definition in § 150.1. However, for the avoidance of confusion, the Commission provides the following descriptions of such spread strategies to assist exchanges in their analysis of whether a spread position complies with the spread transaction definition. The Commission generally understands that the following spread strategies are typically defined as follows:
(i)
Intra-market spread
means a long (short) position in one or more commodity derivative contracts in a particular commodity, or its products or by-products, and a short (long) position in one or more commodity derivative contracts in the same, or similar, commodity, or its products or by-products, on the same designated contract market or swap execution facility.
(ii)
Inter-market spread
means a long (short) position in one or more commodity derivative contracts in a particular commodity, or its products or by-products, at a particular designated contract market or swap execution facility and a short (long) position in one or more commodity derivative contracts in that same, or similar, commodity, or its products or by-products, away from that particular designated contract market or swap execution facility.
(iii)
Intra-commodity spread
means a long (short) position in one or more commodity derivatives contracts in a particular commodity, or its product or by-products, and a short (long) position in one or more commodity derivative contracts in the same, or similar, commodity, or its products or by-products.
(iv)
Inter-commodity spread
means a long (short) position in one or more commodity derivatives contracts in a particular commodity, or its product or by-products, and a short (long) position in one or more commodity derivative contracts in a different commodity or its products or by-products.
(2) The following is a non-exhaustive list of spread strategies that comply with the spread transaction definition in § 150.1:
(i) An inter-market spread transaction in which the legs of the transaction are futures contracts in the same, or similar commodity, or its products or its by-products, and same calendar month or expiration;
(ii) A spread transaction in which one leg is a referenced contract, as defined in § 150.1, and the other leg is a commodity derivative contract, as defined in § 150.1, that is not a referenced contract (including over-the-counter commodity derivative contracts);
(iii) A spread transaction between a physically-settled contract and a cash-settled contract;
(iv) A spread transaction between two cash-settled contracts; and
(v) Spread transactions that are “legged in,” that is, carried out in two steps, or alternatively are “combination trades,” that is, all components of the spread are executed simultaneously or contemporaneously.
(3) A spread transaction exemption cannot be used to exceed the conditional spot month limit exemption, in § 150.3(a)(4), for positions in natural gas.
(4) The spread transaction definition does not include a single cash-settled agreement, contract or transaction that, by its terms and conditions:
(i) Simply represents the difference (or basis) between the settlement price of a referenced contract and the settlement price of another contract, agreement, or transaction (whether or not a referenced contract), and
(ii) Does not comprise separate long and short positions.
(5) The spread transaction definition does not include a spread position involving a commodity index contract and one or more referenced contracts.
(c)
Guidance on cash-and-carry exemptions.
The spread transaction definition in § 150.1 would permit transactions commonly known as “cash-and-carry” trades whereby a market participant enters a long futures position in the spot month and an equivalent short futures position in the following month, in order to guarantee a return that, at minimum, covers the costs of its carrying charges,
such as
the cost of financing, insuring, and storing the physical inventory until the next expiration (including insurance, storage fees, and financing costs, as well as other costs such as aging discounts that are specific to individual commodities). With this exemption, the market participant is able to take physical delivery of the product in the nearby month and may redeliver the same product in a deferred month. When determining whether to grant, and when monitoring, cash-and-carry spread transaction exemptions, the exchange should consider:
(1) Implementing safeguards to require a market participant relying on such an exemption to reduce its position below the speculative Federal position limit within a timely manner once market prices no longer permit entry into a full carry transaction;
(2) Implementing safeguards that require market participants to liquidate all long positions in the nearby contract month before the price of the nearby contract month rises to a premium to the second (2nd) contract month; and
(3) Requiring market participants that seek to rely on such exemption to:
(i) Provide information about their expected cost of carrying the physical commodity, and the quantity of stocks currently owned in exchange-licensed warehouses or tank facilities; and
(ii) Agree that before the price of the nearby contract month rises to a premium to the second (2nd) contract month, the market participant will liquidate all long positions in the nearby contract month.
[86 FR 3475, Jan. 14, 2021]
PART 151 [RESERVED]
Pt. 155

# PART 155—TRADING STANDARDS
Sec.
155.1
Definitions.
155.2
Trading standards for floor brokers.
155.3
Trading standards for futures commission merchants.
155.4
Trading standards for introducing brokers.
155.5-155.6
[Reserved]
155.10
Exemptions.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6b, 6c, 6g, 6j and 12a, unless otherwise noted.
§ 155.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term
affiliated person
of a futures commission merchant or of an introducing broker means any general partner, officer, director, owner of more than ten percent of the equity interest, associated person or employee of the futures commission merchant or of the introducing broker, and any relative or spouse of any of the foregoing persons, or any relative of such spouse, who shares the same home as any of the foregoing persons.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3038-0007 and 3038-0022)
[46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981, and 48 FR 35304, Aug. 3, 1983]
§ 155.2
Trading standards for floor brokers.
Each contract market shall adopt rules which shall, at a minimum, with respect to each member of the contract market acting as a floor broker:
(a) Prohibit such member from purchasing any commodity for future delivery, purchasing any call option, or selling any put option, for his own account or for any account in which he has an interest, while holding an order of another person for the (1) purchase of any future, (2) purchase of any call option, or (3) sale of any put option, in the same commodity which is executable at the market price or at the price at which such purchase or sale can be made for the member's own account or any account in which he has an interest.
(b) Prohibit such member from selling any commodity for future delivery, selling any call option, or purchasing any put option, for his own account or for any account in which he has an interest, while holding an order of another person for the (1) sale of any future, (2) sale of any call option, or (3) purchase of any put option, in the same commodity which is executable at the market price or at the price at which such sale or purchase can be made for
the member's own account or any account in which he has an interest.
(c) Prohibit such member from executing any transaction for any account of another person for which buying and/or selling orders can be placed or originated, or for which transactions can be executed, by such member without the prior specific consent of the account owner, regardless of whether the general authorization for such orders or transactions is pursuant to a written agreement, except that orders for such an account may be placed with another member for execution.
(d) Prohibit such member from disclosing at any time that he is holding an order of another person or from divulging any order revealed to him by reason of his relationship to such other person, except pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section or at the request of an authorized representative of the Commission or the contract market.
(e) Prohibit such member from taking, directly or indirectly, the other side of any order of another person revealed to him by reason of his relationship to such other person, except with such other person's prior consent and in conformity with contract market rules approved by the Commission.
(f) Prohibit such member from making any purchase or sale which has been directly or indirectly prearranged.
(g) Prohibit such member from allocating trades among accounts except in accordance with rules of the contract market which have been approved by the Commission.
(h) Prohibit such member from withholding or withdrawing from the market any order or part of an order of another person for the convenience of another member.
(i) Require that every execution of a transaction on the floor by such member be confirmed promptly with the opposite floor broker or floor trader; such confirmation shall identify price or premium, quantity, future or commodity option and respective clearing members. In the event a contract market cannot require prompt identification of respective clearing members without seriously disrupting the functions of its marketplace, the contract market may petition the Commission for exemption from this requirement. Such petition shall include:
(1) An explanation of why the contract market cannot require the prompt identification of respective clearing members without seriously disrupting the functions of its marketplace, and
(2) A proposed contract market rule which will ensure that the opposite sides of every trade executed on the contract market can be effectively matched and will be accepted by a clearing member for clearance or will be otherwise sufficiently guaranteed.
The Commission may, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate, grant such petition for exemption upon finding that the functions of the contract market may be seriously disrupted by requiring the prompt identification of respective clearing members and that the contract market appears to have adequately ensured that every trade executed thereon can be effectively matched and will be accepted by a clearing member for clearance or will be otherwise sufficiently guaranteed.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3038-0007 and 3038-0022)
(Secs. 2(a)(1), 4c(a)-(d), 4d, 4f, 4g, 4k, 4m, 4n, 8a, 15 and 17, Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 4, 6c(a)-(d), 6f, 6g, 6k, 6m, 6n, 12a, 19 and 21; 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b))
[41 FR 56142, Dec. 23, 1976, as amended at 46 FR 54534, Nov. 3, 1981; 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981; 47 FR 57020, Dec. 22, 1982; 59 FR 5528, Feb. 7, 1994; 77 FR 66348, Nov. 2, 2012; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 155.3
Trading standards for futures commission merchants.
(a) Each futures commission merchant shall, at a minimum, establish and enforce internal rules, procedures and controls to:
(1) Ensure, to the extent possible, that each order received from a customer which is executable at or near the market price is transmitted to the floor of the appropriate contract market before any order in any future or in any commodity option in the same commodity for any proprietary account, any other account in which an affiliated person has an interest, or any account for which an affiliated person
may originate orders without the prior specific consent of the account owner, if the affiliated person has gained knowledge of the customer's order prior to the transmission to the floor of the appropriate contract market of the order for a proprietary account, an account in which the affiliated person has an interest, or an account in which the affiliated person may originate orders without the prior specific consent of the account owner; and
(2) Prevent affiliated persons from placing orders, directly or indirectly, with another futures commission merchant in a manner designed to circumvent the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) No futures commission merchant or any of its affiliated persons shall:
(1) Disclose that an order of another person is being held by the futures commission merchant or any of its affiliated persons, unless such disclosure is necessary to the effective execution of such order or is made at the request of an authorized representative of the Commission, the contract market on which such order is to be executed, or a futures association registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17 of the Act; or
(2)(i) Knowingly take, directly or indirectly, the other side of any order of another person revealed to the futures commission merchant or any of its affiliated persons by reason of their relationship to such other person, except with such other person's prior consent and in conformity with contract market rules approved by or certified to the Commission.
(ii) In the case of a customer who does not qualify as an “institutional customer” as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter, a futures commission merchant must obtain the customer's prior consent through a signed acknowledgment, which may be accomplished in accordance with § 1.55(d) of this chapter.
(c) No futures commission merchant shall knowingly handle the account of any affiliated person of another futures commission merchant or of an introducing broker unless the futures commission merchant:
(1) Receives written authorization from a person designated by such other futures commission merchant or introducing broker with responsibility for the surveillance over such account pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section or § 155.4(a)(2), respectively;
(2) Prepares immediately upon receipt of an order for such account a written record of such order, including the account identification and order number, and records thereon, by time-stamp or other timing device, the date and time, to the nearest minute, the order is received; and
(3) Transmits on a regular basis to such other futures commission merchant or introducing broker copies of all statements for such account and of all written records prepared upon the receipt of orders for such account pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d) No affiliated person of a futures commission merchant shall have an account, directly or indirectly, with another futures commission merchant unless:
(1) Such affiliated person receives written authorization to maintain such an account from a person designated by the futures commission merchant with which such person is affiliated with responsibility for the surveillance over such account pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(2) Copies of all statements for such account and of all written records prepared by such other futures commission merchant upon receipt of orders for such account pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section are transmitted on a regular basis to the future commission merchant with which such person is affiliated.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3038-0007 and 3038-0022)
(Secs. 2(a)(1), 4c(a)-(d), 4d, 4f, 4g, 4k, 4m, 4n, 8a, 15 and 17, Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 4, 6c(a)-(d), 6f, 6g, 6k, 6m, 6n, 12a, 19 and 21; 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b))
[41 FR 56142, Dec. 23, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 71821, Dec. 12, 1979; 46 FR 54535, Nov. 3, 1981; 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981; 47 FR 57020, Dec. 22, 1982; 48 FR 35304, Aug. 3, 1983; 66 FR 53523, Oct. 23, 2001; 70 FR 5924, Feb. 4, 2005; 77 FR 66349, Nov. 2, 2012; 83 FR 7997, Feb. 23, 2018; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 155.4
Trading standards for introducing brokers.
(a) Each introducing broker shall, at a minimum, establish and enforce internal rules, procedures and controls to:
(1) EInsure, to the extent possible, that each order received from a customer which is executable at or near the market price is transmitted to the futures commission merchant carrying the account of the customer before any order in any future or in any commodity option in the same commodity for any proprietary account, any other account in which an affiliated person has an interest, or any account for which an affiliated person may originate orders without the prior specific consent of the account owner, if the affiliated person has gained knowledge of the customer's order prior to the transmission to the floor of the appropriate contract market of the order for a proprietary account, an account in which the affiliated person has an interest, or an account in which the affiliated person may originate orders without the prior specific consent of the account owner; and
(2) Prevent affiliated persons from placing orders, directly or indirectly, with any futures commission merchant in a manner designed to circumvent the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) No introducing broker or any of its affiliated persons shall:
(1) Disclose that an order of another person is being held by the introducing broker or any of its affiliated persons, unless such disclosure is necessary to the effective execution of such order or is made at the request of an authorized representative of the Commission, the contract market on which such order is to be executed, or a futures association registered with the Commission pursuant to section 17 of the Act; or
(2)(i) Knowingly take, directly or indirectly, the other side of any order of another person revealed to the introducing broker or any of its affiliated persons by reason of their relationship to such other person, except with such other persons's prior consent and in conformity with contract market rules approved by or certified to the Commission.
(ii) In the case of a customer who does not qualify as an “institutional customer” as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter, an introducing broker must obtain the customer's prior consent through a signed acknowledgment, which may be accomplished in accordance with § 1.55(d) of this chapter.
(c) No affiliated person of an introducing broker shall have an account, directly or indirectly, with any futures commission merchant unless:
(1) Such affiliated person receives written authorization to maintain such an account from a person designated by the introducing broker with which such person is affiliated with responsibility for the surveillance over such account pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(2) Copies of all statements for such account and of all written records prepared by such futures commission merchant upon receipt of orders for such account pursuant to § 155.3(c)(2) are transmitted on a regular basis to the introducing broker with which such person is affiliated.
[48 FR 35304, Aug. 3, 1983, as amended at 66 FR 53523, Oct. 23, 2001; 70 FR 5924, Feb. 4, 2005; 77 FR 66349, Nov. 2, 2012; 83 FR 7997, Feb. 23, 2018; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
§§ 155.5-155.6
[Reserved]
§ 155.10
Exemptions.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the Commission may, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate, exempt any contract market or other person from any of the provisions of this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3038-0007 and 3038-0022)
[41 FR 56142, Dec. 23, 1976, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981]
Pt. 156

# PART 156—BROKER ASSOCIATIONS
Sec.
156.1
Definition.
156.2
Registration of broker association.
156.3
Contract market program for enforcement.
156.4
Disclosure of Broker Association Membership.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6b, 6c, 6j(d), 7a(b), and 12a.

# Source:
58 FR 31171, June 1, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 156.1
Definition.
For the purposes of this part, the term
broker association
as applied to each board of trade shall include two or more contract market members with floor trading privileges, of whom at least one is acting as a floor broker, who: (1) Engage in floor brokerage activity on behalf of the same employer, (2) have an employer and employee relationship which relates to floor brokerage activity, (3) share profits and losses associated with their brokerage or trading activity, or (4) regularly share a deck of orders.
§ 156.2
Registration of broker association.
(a)
Registration required.
It shall be unlawful for any member of a broker association to receive or to execute an order unless the broker association is registered with the appropriate contract market in accordance with part (b) of this section.
(b)
Contract market rules required.
Each contract market must adopt and maintain in effect rules, which have been submitted to the Commission pursuant to section 5a(a)(12)(A) of the Act and Commission Regulation 1.41, that, at a minimum, (1) define the term “broker association” to include the relationships set forth in § 156.1 of this part, (2) prohibit conduct described in paragraph (a) of this section, and (3) require registration of each relationship defined by its rules as a broker association no later than 10 days after establishment of such relationship. Contract market records of registration shall include the following information with respect to each broker association, if applicable:
(i) Name;
(ii) Form of organization, e.g., partnership, corporation, trust, etc.;
(iii) Name of each person who is a member or otherwise has a direct beneficial interest in the association;
(iv) Badge symbols and numbers for all members;
(v) Account numbers for all accounts of any member, accounts in which any member(s) has an interest, and any proprietary or customer accounts controlled by any member(s);
(vi) Identification of all other broker associations with which each member is associated; and
(vii) Individual(s) authorized to represent the association in connection with its registration obligations.
Any registration information provided to the contract market which becomes deficient or inaccurate must be updated or corrected promptly.
(c)
Other contract market rules.
(1) Each contract market may submit rules pursuant to section 5a(a)(12)(A) of the Act and Commission Regulation 1.41 that interpret when contract market members would be deemed to “regularly share a deck of orders.” In the absence of such rules, a contract market must make such a determination on a case-by-case basis. The basis for a determination whether brokers “regularly share a deck of orders” must be documented.
(2) Each contract market may adopt rules, which must be submitted to the Commission pursuant to section 5a(a)(12)(A) of the Act and Commission Regulation 1.41, which set forth the basis and procedures for granting exemptions from the registration requirement contained in paragraph (b) of this section for de minimis activity.
§ 156.3
Contract market program for enforcement.
A contract market must, as part of its responsibilities pursuant to the Act and § 1.51, demonstrate effective use of broker association registration information to monitor the trading activity of broker associations and their members for potential abuse and to secure compliance with all other contract market bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions which may pertain to such associations or their members.
§ 156.4
Disclosure of Broker Association Membership.
Each contract market shall make available to the public generally and upon request a list of all registered broker associations which identifies for each such association the name of each person who is a member or otherwise has a direct beneficial interest in the
association. This list shall be updated at least semi-annually.
[61 FR 41498, Aug. 9, 1996]
Pt. 160

# PART 160—PRIVACY OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL INFORMATION UNDER TITLE V OF THE GRAMM-LEACH-BLILEY ACT
Sec.
160.1
Purpose and scope.
160.2
Rule of construction.
160.3
Definitions.

# Subpart A—Privacy and Opt Out Notices
160.4
Initial privacy notice to consumers required.
160.5
Annual privacy notice to customers required.
160.6
Information to be included in privacy notices.
160.7
Form of opt out notice to consumers; opt out methods.
160.8
Revised privacy notices.
160.9
Delivering privacy and opt out notices.

# Subpart B—Limits on Disclosures
160.10
Limits on disclosure of nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties.
160.11
Limits on redisclosure and re-use of information.
160.12
Limits on sharing account number information for marketing purposes.

# Subpart C—Exceptions
160.13
Exception to opt out requirements for service providers and joint marketing.
160.14
Exceptions to notice and opt out requirements for processing and servicing transactions.
160.15
Other exceptions to notice and opt out requirements.

# Subpart D—Relation to Other Laws; Effective Date
160.16
Protection of Fair Credit Reporting Act.
160.17
Relation to state laws.
160.18
Effective date; transition rule.
160.19-160.29
[Reserved]
160.30
Procedures to safeguard customer records and information.
Appendix A to Part 160—Model Privacy Form
Appendix B to Part 160—Sample Clauses

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7b-2 and 12a(5); 15 U.S.C 6801,
et seq.,
and sec. 1093, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Source:
66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 160.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part governs the treatment of nonpublic personal information about consumers by the financial institutions listed in paragraph (b) of this section. This part:
(1) Requires a financial institution to provide notice to customers about its privacy policies and practices;
(2) Describes the conditions under which a financial institution may disclose nonpublic personal information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties; and
(3) Provides a method for consumers to prevent a financial institution from disclosing nonpublic personal information to most nonaffiliated third parties by “opting out” of that disclosure, subject to the exceptions in §§ 160.13, 160.14, and 160.15.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies only to nonpublic personal information about individuals who obtain financial products or services primarily for personal, family, or household purposes from the institutions listed below. This part does not apply to information about companies or about individuals who obtain financial products or services primarily for business, commercial, or agricultural purposes. This part applies to all futures commission merchants, retail foreign exchange dealers, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators, introducing brokers, major swap participants and swap dealers that are subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, regardless whether they are required to register with the Commission. These entities are hereinafter referred to in this part as “you.” This part does not apply to foreign (non-resident) futures commission merchants, retail foreign exchange dealers, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators, introducing brokers, major swap participants and swap dealers that are not registered with the Commission.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 75 FR 55450, Sept. 10, 2010; 76 FR 43878, July 22, 2011]
§ 160.2
Model privacy form and examples.
(a)
Model privacy form.
Use of the model privacy form in appendix A of this part, consistent with the instructions in appendix A, constitutes compliance with the notice content requirements of §§ 160.6 and 160.7 of this part, although use of the model privacy form is not required.
(b)
Examples.
The examples in this part are not exclusive. Compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this part.
[74 FR 62974, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 160.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, unless the context requires otherwise:
(a)
Affiliate
of a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant, or swap dealer means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant, or swap dealer that is subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission. In addition, a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant, or swap dealer subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission will be deemed an affiliate of a company for purposes of this part if:
(1) That company is regulated under title V of the GLB Act by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection or by a Federal functional regulator other than the Commission; and
(2) Rules adopted by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection or another Federal functional regulator under title V of the GLB Act treat the futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant, or swap dealer as an affiliate of that company.
(b)(1)
Clear and conspicuous
means that a notice is reasonably understandable and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information in the notice.
(2)
Examples
—(i)
Reasonably understandable.
Your notice will be reasonably understandable if you:
(A) Present the information in the notice in clear, concise sentences, paragraphs and sections;
(B) Use short explanatory sentences or bullet lists whenever possible;
(C) Use definite, concrete, everyday words and active voice whenever possible;
(D) Avoid multiple negatives;
(E) Avoid legal and highly technical business terminology whenever possible; and
(F) Avoid explanations that are imprecise and readily subject to different interpretations.
(ii)
Designed to call attention.
Your notice is designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information in it if you:
(A) Use a plain-language heading to call attention to the notice;
(B) Use a typeface and type size that are easy to read;
(C) Provide wide margins and ample line spacing;
(D) Use boldface or italics for key words; and
(E) Use distinctive type size, style and graphic devices, such as shading or sidebars when you combine your notice with other information.
(iii)
Notices on web sites.
If you provide notice on a web page, you design your notice to call attention to the nature and significance of the information in it if you use text or visual cues to encourage scrolling down the page, if necessary to view the entire notice, and ensure that other elements on the web site, such as text, graphics, hyperlinks or sound, do not distract from the notice, and you either:
(A) Place the notice on a screen that consumers frequently access, such as a page on which transactions are conducted; or
(B) Place a link on a screen that consumers frequently access, such as a page on which transactions are conducted, that connects directly to the notice and is labeled appropriately to
convey the importance, nature and relevance of the notice.
(c)
Collect
means to obtain information that you organize or can retrieve by the name of an individual or by identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, irrespective of the source of the underlying information.
(d)
Commission
means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(e)
Commodity pool operator
has the same meaning as in section 1a(5) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and includes anyone registered as such under the Act.
(f)
Commodity trading advisor
has the same meaning as in section 1a(6) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and includes anyone registered as such under the Act.
(g)
Company
means any corporation, limited liability company, business trust, general or limited partnership, association or similar organization.
(h)(1)
Consumer
means an individual who obtains or has obtained a financial product or service from you that is to be used primarily for personal, family or household purposes, or that individual's legal representative.
(2)
Examples.
(i) An individual is your consumer if he or she provides nonpublic personal information to you in connection with obtaining or seeking to obtain brokerage or advisory services, whether or not you provide services to the individual or establish a continuing relationship with the individual.
(ii) An individual is not your consumer if he or she provides you only with his or her name, address and general areas of investment interest in connection with a request for a brochure or other information about financial products or services.
(iii) An individual is not your consumer if he or she has an account with another futures commission merchant (originating futures commission merchant) for which you provide clearing services for an account in the name of the originating futures commission merchant.
(iv) An individual who is a consumer of another financial institution is not your consumer solely because you act as agent for, or provide processing or other services to, that financial institution.
(v) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she has designated you as trustee for a trust.
(vi) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she is a beneficiary of a trust for which you are a trustee.
(vii) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she is a participant or a beneficiary of an employee benefit plan that you sponsor or for which you act as a trustee or fiduciary.
(i)
Consumer reporting agency
has the same meaning as in section 603(f) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f)).
(j) Control of a company means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Any person who owns beneficially, either directly or through one or more controlled companies, more than 25 percent of the voting securities of any company is presumed to control the company. Any person who does not own more than 25 percent of the voting securities of a company will be presumed not to control the company.
(k)
Customer
means a consumer who has a customer relationship with you.
(l)(1)
Customer relationship
means a continuing relationship between a consumer and you under which you provide one or more financial products or services to the consumer that are to be used primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
(2)
Examples
—(i)
Continuing relationship.
A consumer has a continuing relationship with you if:
(A) You are a futures commission merchant through whom a consumer has opened an account, or that carries the consumer's account on a fully-disclosed basis, or that effects or engages in commodity interest transactions with or for a consumer, even if you do not hold any assets of the consumer.
(B) You are a retail foreign exchange dealer with whom a consumer has opened an account, or that effects or engages in retail forex transactions with or for a consumer, even if you do not hold any assets of the consumer;
(C) You are an introducing broker that solicits or accepts specific orders for trades;
(D) You are a commodity trading advisor with whom a consumer has a contract or subscription, either written or oral, regardless of whether the advice is standardized, or is based on, or tailored to, the commodity interest or cash market positions or other circumstances or characteristics of the particular consumer;
(E) You are a commodity pool operator, and you accept or receive from the consumer, funds, securities, or property for the purpose of purchasing an interest in a commodity pool;
(F) You hold securities or other assets as collateral for a loan made to the consumer, even if you did not make the loan or do not effect any transactions on behalf of the consumer; or
(G) You regularly effect or engage in commodity interest transactions with or for a consumer even if you do not hold any assets of the consumer.
(ii)
No continuing relationship.
A consumer does not have a continuing relationship with you if:
(A) You have acted solely as a “finder” for a futures commission merchant, and you do not solicit or accept specific orders for trades; or
(B) You have solicited the consumer to participate in a pool or to direct his or her account and he or she has not provided you with funds to participate in a pool or entered into any agreement for you to direct his or her account.
(m)
Federal functional regulator means:
(1) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
(2) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
(3) The Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(4) The Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision;
(5) The National Credit Union Administration Board;
(6) The Securities and Exchange Commission; and
(7) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(n)(1)
Financial institution means:
(i) Any futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant, or swap dealer that is registered with the Commission as such or is otherwise subject to the Commission's jurisdiction; and
(2)
Financial institution
does not include:
(i) Any person or entity, other than a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant, or swap dealer that, with respect to any financial activity, is subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under the Act.
(ii) The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation or any entity chartered and operating under the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
); or
(iii) Institutions chartered by Congress specifically to engage in securitizations, secondary market sales (including sales of servicing rights) or similar transactions related to a transaction of a consumer, as long as such institutions do not sell or transfer nonpublic personal information to a nonaffiliated third party.
(o)(1)
Financial product or service
means:
(i) Any product or service that a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant, or swap dealer could offer that is subject to the Commission's jurisdiction; and
(ii) Any product or service that any other financial institution could offer by engaging in an activity that is financial in nature or incidental to such a financial activity under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k).
(2)
Financial service
includes your evaluation or brokerage of information that you collect in connection with a request or an application from a consumer for a financial product or service.
(p)
Futures commission merchant
has the same meaning as in section 1a(20) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and includes any person registered as such under the Act.
(q)
GLB Act
means the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Pub. L. No. 106-102, 113 Stat. 1338 (1999)).
(r)
Introducing broker
has the same meaning as in section 1a(23) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, and includes any person registered as such under the Act.
(s)
Major swap participant.
The term “major swap participant” has the same meaning as in section 1a(33) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
as may be further defined by this title, and includes any person registered as such thereunder.
(t)(1)
Nonaffiliated third party
means any person except:
(i) Your affiliate; or
(ii) A person employed jointly by you and any company that is not your affiliate, but
nonaffiliated third party
includes the other company that jointly employs the person.
(2)
Nonaffiliated third party
includes any company that is an affiliate solely by virtue of your or your affiliate's direct or indirect ownership or control of the company in conducting merchant banking or investment banking activities of the type described in section 4(k)(4)(H) or insurance company investment activities of the type described in section 4(k)(4)(I) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H) and (I).
(u)(1)
Nonpublic personal information
means:
(i) Personally identifiable financial information; and
(ii) Any list, description or other grouping of consumers, and publicly available information pertaining to them, that is derived using any personally identifiable financial information that is not publicly available information.
(2)
Nonpublic personal information
does not include:
(i) Publicly available information, except as included on a list described in paragraph (t)(1)(ii) of this section or when the publicly available information is disclosed in a manner that indicates the individual is or has been your consumer; or
(ii) Any list, description or other grouping of consumers, and publicly available information pertaining to them, that is derived without using any personally identifiable financial information that is not publicly available information.
(3)
Examples of lists.
(i) Nonpublic personal information includes any list of individuals' names and street addresses that is derived in whole or in part using personally identifiable financial information that is not publicly available information, such as account numbers.
(ii) Nonpublic personal information does not include any list of individuals' names and addresses that contains only publicly available information, is not derived in whole or in part using personally identifiable financial information that is not publicly available information, and is not disclosed in a manner that indicates that any of the individuals on the list is a consumer of a financial institution.
(v)(1)
Personally identifiable financial information
means any information:
(i) A consumer provides to you to obtain a financial product or service from you;
(ii) About a consumer resulting from any transaction involving a financial product or service between you and a consumer; or
(iii) You otherwise obtain about a consumer in connection with providing a financial product or service to that consumer.
(2)
Examples
—(i)
Information included.
Personally identifiable financial information includes:
(A) Information a consumer provides to you on an application to open a commodity interest trading account, to invest in a commodity pool, or to obtain another financial product or service;
(B) Account balance information, payment history, overdraft history, margin call history, trading history, and credit or debit card purchase information;
(C) The fact that an individual is or has been one of your customers or has obtained a financial product or service from you;
(D) Any information about your consumer if it is disclosed in a manner that indicates that the individual is or has been your consumer;
(E) Any information you collect through an Internet “cookie” (an information-collecting device from a web server); and
(F) Information from a consumer report.
(ii)
Information not included.
Personally identifiable financial information does not include:
(A) A list of names and addresses of customers of an entity that is not a financial institution; or
(B) Information that does not identify a consumer, such as aggregate information or blind data that does not contain personal identifiers such as account numbers, names or addresses.
(w)(1)
Publicly available information
means any information that you reasonably believe is lawfully made available to the general public from:
(i) Federal, state or local government records;
(ii) Widely distributed media; or
(iii) Disclosures to the general public that are required to be made by federal, state or local law.
(2)
Examples
—(i)
Reasonable belief.
(A) You have a reasonable belief that information about your consumer is made available to the general public if you have confirmed, or your consumer has represented to you, that the information is publicly available from a source described in paragraphs (v)(1)(i)-(iii) of this section.
(B) You have a reasonable belief that information about your consumer is made available to the general public if you have taken steps to submit the information, in accordance with your internal procedures and policies and with applicable law, to a keeper of federal, state or local government records that is required by law to make the information publicly available.
(C) You have a reasonable belief that an individual's telephone number is lawfully made available to the general public if you have located the telephone number in the telephone book or on an internet listing service, or the consumer has informed you that the telephone number is not unlisted.
(D) You do not have a reasonable belief that information about a consumer is publicly available solely because that information would normally be recorded with a keeper of federal, state or local government records that is required by law to make the information publicly available, if the consumer has the ability in accordance with applicable law to keep that information nonpublic, such as where a consumer may record a deed in the name of a blind trust.
(ii)
Government records.
Publicly available information in government records includes information in government real estate records and security interest filings.
(iii)
Widely distributed media.
Publicly available information from widely distributed media includes information from a telephone book, a television or radio program, a newspaper, or a web site that is available to the general public on an unrestricted basis. A web site is not restricted merely because an Internet service provider or a site operator requires a fee or password, so long as access is available to the general public.
(x)
Swap dealer.
The term “swap dealer” has the same meaning as in section 1a(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
as may be further defined by this title, and includes any person registered as such thereunder.
(y)
You
means:
(1) Any futures commission merchant;
(2) Any retail foreign exchange dealer;
(3) Any commodity trading advisor;
(4) Any commodity pool operator;
(5) Any introducing broker;
(6) Any major swap participant; and
(7) Any swap dealer.
(z)
Retail foreign exchange dealer
has the same meaning as in § 5.3(i)(1) of this chapter.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 75 FR 55450, Sept. 10, 2010; 76 FR 43878, July 22, 2011]

# Subpart A—Privacy and Opt Out Notices
§ 160.4
Initial privacy notice to consumers required.
(a)
Initial notice requirement.
You must provide a clear and conspicuous notice that accurately reflects your privacy policies and practices to:
(1)
Customer.
An individual who becomes your customer, not later than
when you establish a customer relationship, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section; and
(2)
Consumer.
A consumer, before you disclose any nonpublic personal information about the consumer to any nonaffiliated third party, if you make such a disclosure other than as authorized by §§ 160.14 and 160.15.
(b)
When initial notice to a consumer is not required.
You are not required to provide an initial notice to a consumer under paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) You do not disclose any nonpublic personal information about the consumer to any nonaffiliated third party other than as authorized by §§ 160.14 and 160.15; and
(2) You do not have a customer relationship with the consumer.
(c)
When you establish a customer relationship
—(1)
General rule.
You establish a customer relationship when you and the consumer enter into a continuing relationship.
(2)
Examples of establishing customer relationship.
You establish a customer relationship when the consumer:
(i) Instructs you to execute a commodity interest transaction for the consumer;
(ii) Opens a retail forex account, or opens a commodity interest account through an introducing broker or with a futures commission merchant that clears transactions for its customers through you on a fully-disclosed basis;
(iii) Transmits specific orders for commodity interest transactions to you that you pass on to a futures commission merchant for execution, if you are an introducing broker;
(iv) Enters into an advisory contract or subscription with you, whether in writing or orally, and whether you provide standardized, or individually tailored commodity trading advice based on the customer's commodity interest or cash market positions or other circumstances or characteristics, if you are a commodity trading adviser; or
(v) Provides to you funds, securities, or property for an interest in a commodity pool, if you are a commodity pool operator.
(d)
Existing customers.
When an existing customer obtains a new financial product or service from you that is to be used primarily for personal, family or household purposes, you satisfy the initial notice requirements of paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
(1) You may provide a revised privacy notice under § 160.8 that covers the customer's new financial product or service; or
(2) If the initial, revised or annual notice that you most recently provided to that customer was accurate with respect to the new financial product or service, you do not need to provide a new privacy notice under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Exceptions to allow subsequent delivery of notice.
(1) You may provide the initial notice required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section within a reasonable time after you establish a customer relationship if:
(i) Establishing the customer relationship is not at the customer's election;
(ii) Providing notice not later than when you establish a customer relationship would substantially delay the customer's transaction and the customer agrees to receive the notice at a later time;
(iii) A nonaffiliated financial institution establishes a customer relationship between you and a consumer without your prior knowledge; or
(iv) You have established a customer relationship with a customer in a bulk transfer in accordance with § 1.65, if you are a transferee futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer or introducing broker.
(2)
Examples of exceptions
—(i)
Not at customer's election.
Establishing a customer relationship is not at the customer's election if you acquire the customer's commodity interest account from another financial institution and the customer does not have a choice about your acquisition.
(ii)
Substantial delay of customer's transaction.
Providing notice not later than when you establish a customer relationship would substantially delay the customer's transaction when you and the individual agree over the telephone to enter into a customer relationship involving prompt delivery of the financial product or service.
(iii)
No substantial delay of customer's transaction.
Providing notice not later
than when you establish a customer relationship would not substantially delay the customer's transaction when the relationship is initiated in person at your office or through other means by which the customer may view the notice, such as on a web site.
(f)
Delivery of notice.
When you are required by this section to deliver an initial privacy notice, you must deliver it according to the provisions of § 160.9. If you use a short-form initial notice for non-customers according to § 160.6(d), you may deliver your privacy notice as provided in section § 160.6(d)(3).
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 75 FR 55451, Sept. 10, 2010]
§ 160.5
Annual privacy notice to customers required.
(a)(1)
General rule.
Except as provided by paragraph (d) of this section, you must provide a clear and conspicuous notice to customers that accurately reflects your privacy policies and practices not less than annually during the life of the customer relationship.
Annually
means at least once in any period of 12 consecutive months during which that relationship exists. You may define the 12-consecutive-month period, but you must apply it to the customer on a consistent basis.
(2)
Example.
You provide notice annually if you define the 12-consecutive-month period as a calendar year and provide the annual notice to the customer once in each calendar year following the calendar year in which you provided the initial notice. For example, if a customer opens an account on any day of year 1, you must provide an annual notice to that customer by December 31 of year 2.
(b)(1)
Termination of customer relationship.
You are not required to provide an annual notice to a former customer.
(2)
Examples.
Your customer becomes a former customer when:
(i) The individual's commodity interest account is closed;
(ii) The individual's advisory contract or subscription is terminated or expires; or
(iii) The individual has redeemed all of his or her units in your pool.
(c)
Delivery of notice.
When you are required by this section to deliver an annual privacy notice, you must deliver it in the manner provided by § 160.9.
(d)
Exception to annual privacy notice requirement.
(1) You are not required to deliver an annual privacy notice if you:
(i) Provide nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties only in accordance with the provisions of §§ 160.13, 160.14, and 160.15 and any other exceptions adopted by the Commission pursuant to section 504(b) of the GLB Act; and
(ii) Have not changed your policies and practices with regard to disclosing nonpublic personal information from the policies and practices that were disclosed to the customer under § 160.6(a)(2) through (5) and § 160.6(a)(9) in the most recent privacy notice sent to the customer pursuant to this part.
(2)
Delivery of annual privacy notice after you no longer meet requirements for exception.
If you have been excepted from delivering an annual privacy notice pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section and change your policies or practices in such a way that you no longer meet the requirements for that exception, you must comply with paragraph (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i)
Changes preceded by a revised privacy notice.
If you no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section because you change your policies or practices in such a way that § 160.8 of this part requires you to provide a revised privacy notice, you must provide an annual privacy notice in accordance with the timing requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, treating the revised privacy notice as an initial privacy notice.
(ii)
Changes not preceded by a revised privacy notice.
If you no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section because you change your policies or practices in such a way that § 160.8 of this part does not require you to provide a revised privacy notice, you must provide an annual privacy notice within 100 days of the change in your policies or practices that causes you to no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 17345, Apr. 25, 2019]
§ 160.6
Information to be included in privacy notices.
(a)
General rule.
The initial, annual, and revised privacy notices that you provide under §§ 160.4, 160.5 and 160.8 must include each of the following items of information that applies to you or to the consumers to whom you send your privacy notice, in addition to any other information you wish to provide:
(1) The categories of nonpublic personal information that you collect;
(2) The categories of nonpublic personal information that you disclose;
(3) The categories of affiliates and nonaffiliated third parties to whom you disclose nonpublic personal information, other than those parties to whom you disclose information under §§ 160.14 and 160.15;
(4) The categories of nonpublic personal information about your former customers that you disclose and the categories of affiliates and nonaffiliated third parties to whom you disclose nonpublic personal information about your former customers, other than those parties to whom you disclose information under §§ 160.14 and 160.15;
(5) If you disclose nonpublic personal information to a nonaffiliated third party under § 160.13 (and no other exception applies to that disclosure), a separate statement of the categories of information you disclose and the categories of third parties with whom you have contracted;
(6) An explanation of the consumer's rights under § 160.10(a) to opt out of the disclosure of nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties, including the method(s) by which the consumer may exercise that right at that time;
(7) Any disclosures that you make under § 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(d)(2)(A)(iii)) (that is, notices regarding the ability to opt out of disclosures of information among affiliates);
(8) Your policies and practices with respect to protecting the confidentiality and security of nonpublic personal information; and
(9) Any disclosure that you make under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Description of nonaffiliated third parties subject to exceptions.
If you disclose nonpublic personal information to third parties as authorized under §§ 160.14 and 160.15, you are not required to list those exceptions in the initial or annual privacy notices required by §§ 160.4 and 160.5. When describing the categories with respect to those parties, it is sufficient to state that you make disclosures to other nonaffiliated companies:
(1) For your everyday business purposes, such as
[include all that apply]
to process transactions, maintain account(s), respond to court orders and legal investigations, or report to credit bureaus; or
(2) As permitted by law.
(c)
Examples
—(1)
Categories of nonpublic personal information that you collect.
You satisfy the requirement to categorize the nonpublic personal information that you collect if you list the following categories, as applicable:
(i) Information from the consumer;
(ii) Information about the consumer's transactions with you or your affiliates;
(iii) Information about the consumer's transactions with nonaffiliated third parties; and
(iv) Information from a consumer reporting agency.
(2)
Categories of nonpublic personal information you disclose.
(i) You satisfy the requirement to categorize the nonpublic personal information you disclose if you list the categories described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, as applicable, and a few examples to illustrate the types of information in each category.
(ii) If you reserve the right to disclose all of the nonpublic personal information about consumers that you collect, you may simply state that fact without describing the categories or examples of the nonpublic personal information you disclose.
(3)
Categories of affiliates and nonaffiliated third parties to whom you disclose.
You satisfy the requirement to categorize the affiliates and nonaffiliated third parties to whom you
disclose nonpublic personal information if you list the following categories, as applicable, and a few examples to illustrate the types of third parties in each category:
(i) Financial service providers;
(ii) Non-financial companies; and
(iii) Others.
(4)
Disclosures under exception for service providers and joint marketers.
If you disclose nonpublic personal information under the exception in § 160.13 to a nonaffiliated third party to market products or services that you offer alone or jointly with another financial institution, you satisfy the disclosure requirement of paragraph (a)(5) of this section if you:
(i) List the categories of nonpublic personal information you disclose, using the same categories and examples you used to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, as applicable; and
(ii) State whether the third party is:
(A) A service provider that performs marketing services on your behalf or on behalf of you and another financial institution; or
(B) A financial institution with which you have a joint marketing agreement.
(5)
Simplified notices.
If you do not disclose, and do not wish to reserve the right to disclose, nonpublic personal information to affiliates or nonaffiliated third parties except as authorized under §§ 160.14 and 160.15, you may simply state that fact, in addition to information you must provide under paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(8), (a)(9) and (b) of this section.
(6)
Confidentiality and security.
You describe your policies and practices with respect to protecting the confidentiality and security of nonpublic personal information if you do both of the following:
(i) Describe in general terms who is authorized to have access to the information; and
(ii) State whether you have security practices and procedures in place to ensure the confidentiality of the information in accordance with your policy. You are not required to describe technical information about the safeguards you use.
(d)
Short-form initial notice with opt out notice for non-customers.
(1) You may satisfy the initial notice requirements in §§ 160.4(a)(2), 160.7(b) and 160.7(c) for a consumer who is not a customer by providing a short-form initial notice at the same time as you deliver an opt out notice as required in 160.7.
(2) A short-form initial notice must:
(i) Be clear and conspicuous;
(ii) State that your privacy notice is available upon request; and
(iii) Explain a reasonable means by which the consumer may obtain your privacy notice.
(3) You must deliver your short-form initial notice according to § 160.9. You are not required to deliver your privacy notice with your short-form initial notice. You instead may simply provide the consumer a reasonable means to obtain your privacy notice. If a consumer who receives your short-form notice requests your privacy notice, you must deliver your privacy notice according to § 160.9.
(4)
Examples of obtaining privacy notice.
You provide a reasonable means by which a consumer may obtain a copy of your privacy notice if you:
(i) Provide a toll-free telephone number that the consumer may call to request the notice; or
(ii) For a consumer who conducts business in person at your office, maintain copies of the notice on hand that you provide to the consumer immediately upon request.
(e)
Future disclosures.
Your notice may include:
(1) Categories of nonpublic personal information that you reserve the right to disclose in the future, but do not currently disclose; and
(2) Categories of affiliates and nonaffiliated third parties to whom you reserve the right in the future to disclose, but to whom you do not currently disclose, nonpublic personal information.
(f)
Model privacy form.
Pursuant to § 160.2(a) of this part, a model privacy form that meets the notice content requirements of this section is included in appendix A of this part.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 62974, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 160.7
Form of opt out notice to consumers; opt out methods.
(a)(1)
Form of opt out notice.
If you are required to provide an opt out notice under § 160.10(a), you must provide a clear and conspicuous notice to each of your consumers that accurately explains the right to opt out under that section. The notice must state:
(i) That you disclose or reserve the right to disclose nonpublic personal information about your consumer to a nonaffiliated third party;
(ii) That the consumer has the right to opt out of that disclosure; and
(iii) A reasonable means by which the consumer may exercise the opt out right.
(2)
Examples
—(i)
Adequate opt out notice.
You provide adequate notice that the consumer can opt out of the disclosure of nonpublic personal information to a nonaffiliated third party if you:
(A) Identify all of the categories of nonpublic personal information that you disclose or reserve the right to disclose, and all of the categories of nonaffiliated third parties to which you disclose the information, as described in § 160.6(a)(2) and (3), and state that the consumer can opt out of the disclosure of that information; and
(B) Identify the financial products or services that the consumer obtains from you, either singly or jointly, to which the opt out direction would apply.
(ii)
Reasonable means to opt out.
You provide a reasonable means to exercise an opt out right if you:
(A) Designate check-off boxes in a prominent position on the relevant forms with the opt out notice;
(B) Include a reply form together with the opt out notice;
(C) Provide an electronic means to opt out, such as a form that can be sent via electronic mail or a process at your web site, if the consumer agrees to the electronic delivery of information; or
(D) Provide a toll-free telephone number that consumers may call to opt out.
(iii)
Unreasonable opt out means.
You do not provide a reasonable means of opting out if:
(A) The only means of opting out is for the consumer to write his or her own letter to exercise that opt out right; or
(B) The only means of opting out as described in any notice subsequent to the initial notice is to use a check-off box that you provided with the initial notice but did not include with the subsequent notice.
(iv)
Specific opt out means.
You may require each consumer to opt out through a specific means, as long as that means is reasonable for the consumer.
(b)
Same form as initial notice permitted.
You may provide the opt out notice together with or on the same written or electronic form, as the initial notice you provide in accordance with § 160.4.
(c)
Initial notice required when opt out notice delivered subsequent to initial notice.
If you provide the opt out notice after the initial notice in accordance with § 160.4, you must also include a copy of the initial notice with the opt out notice in writing, or, if the consumer agrees, electronically.
(d)
Joint relationships.
(1) If two or more consumers jointly obtain a financial product or service from you, you may provide a single opt out notice; however, you must honor a request from one or more joint account holders for a separate opt out notice. Your opt out notice must explain how you will treat an opt out direction by a joint consumer.
(2) Any of the joint consumers may exercise the right to opt out. You may either:
(i) Treat an opt out direction by a joint consumer as applying to all of the associated joint consumers; or
(ii) Permit each joint consumer to opt out separately.
(3) If you permit each joint consumer to opt out separately, you must permit one of the joint consumers to opt out on behalf of all of the joint consumers.
(4) You may not require all joint consumers to opt out before you implement any opt out direction.
(5)
Example.
If John and Mary have a joint trading account with you and arrange for you to send statements to John's address, you may do any of the following, but you must explain in your opt out notice which opt out policy you will follow:
(i) Send a single opt out notice to John's address, but you must accept an opt out direction from either John or Mary;
(ii) Treat an opt out direction by either John or Mary as applying to the entire account. If you do so, and John opts out, you may not require Mary to opt out as well before implementing John's opt out direction; or
(iii) Permit John and Mary to make different opt out directions. If you do so:
(A) You must permit John and Mary to opt out for each other.
(B) If both opt out, you must permit both to notify you in a single response (such as on a form or through a telephone call).
(C) If John opts out and Mary does not, you may only disclose nonpublic personal information about Mary, but not about John, and not about John and Mary jointly.
(e)
Time to comply with opt out.
You must comply with a consumer's opt out direction as soon as reasonably practicable after you receive it.
(f)
Continuing right to opt out.
A consumer may exercise the right to opt out at any time.
(g)
Duration of consumer's opt out direction.
(1) A consumer's direction to opt out under this section is effective until the consumer revokes it in writing, either by hard copy or, if the consumer agrees, electronically.
(2) When a customer relationship terminates, the customer's opt out direction continues to apply to the nonpublic personal information that you collected during or related to that relationship. If the individual subsequently establishes a new customer relationship with you, the opt out direction that applied to the former relationship does not apply to the new relationship.
(h)
Delivery.
When you are required by this section to deliver an opt out notice, you must deliver it according to § 160.9.
(i)
Model privacy form.
Pursuant to § 160.2(a) of this part, a model privacy form that meets the notice content requirements of this section is included in appendix A of this part.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 62974, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 160.8
Revised privacy notices.
(a)
General rule.
Except as otherwise authorized in this part, you must not, directly or through any affiliate, disclose any nonpublic personal information about a consumer to a nonaffiliated third party other than as described in the initial notice that you provided to that consumer under § 160.4, unless:
(1) You have provided to the consumer a clear and conspicuous revised notice that accurately describes your policies and practices;
(2) You have provided to the consumer a new opt out notice;
(3) You have given the consumer a reasonable opportunity, before you disclose the information to the nonaffiliated third party, to opt out of the disclosure; and
(4) The consumer does not opt out.
(b)
Examples.
(1) Except as otherwise permitted by §§ 160.13, 160.14, and 160.15, you must provide a revised notice before you:
(i) Disclose a new category of nonpublic personal information to any nonaffiliated third party;
(ii) Disclose nonpublic personal information to a new category of nonaffiliated third party; or
(iii) Disclose nonpublic personal information about a former customer to a nonaffiliated third party, if that former customer has not had the opportunity to exercise an opt out right regarding that disclosure.
(2) A revised notice is not required if you disclose nonpublic personal information to a new nonaffiliated third party that you adequately described in your prior notice.
(c)
Delivery.
When you are required to deliver a revised privacy notice by this section, you must deliver it according to § 160.9.
§ 160.9
Delivering privacy and opt out notices.
(a)
How to provide notices.
You must provide any privacy notices and opt out notices, including short-form initial notices that this part requires so that each consumer can reasonably be expected to receive actual notice in writing either in hard copy or, if the consumer agrees, electronically.
(b)(1)
Examples of reasonable expectation of actual notice.
You may reasonably expect that a consumer will receive actual notice if you:
(i) Hand-deliver a printed copy of the notice to the consumer;
(ii) Mail a printed copy of the notice to the last known address of the consumer; or
(iii) For the consumer who conducts transactions electronically, post the notice on the electronic site and require the consumer to acknowledge receipt of the notice as a necessary step to obtaining a particular financial service or product.
(2)
Examples of unreasonable expectation of actual notice.
You may not, however, reasonably expect that a consumer will receive actual notice of your privacy policies and practices if you:
(i) Only post a sign in your branch or office or generally publish advertisements of your privacy policies and practices; or
(ii) Send the notice via electronic mail to a consumer who does not obtain a financial product or service from you electronically.
(c)
Annual notices only.
You may reasonably expect that a consumer will receive actual notice of your annual privacy notice if:
(1) The customer uses your web site to access financial products and services electronically and agrees to receive notices at the web site and you post your current privacy notice continuously in a clear and conspicuous manner on the web site; or
(2) The customer has requested that you refrain from sending any information regarding the customer relationship, and your current privacy notice remains available to the customer upon request.
(d)
Oral description of notice insufficient.
You may not provide any notice required by this part solely by orally explaining the notice, either in person or over the telephone.
(e)
Retention or accessibility of notices for customers.
(1) For customers only, you must provide the initial notice required by § 160.4(a)(1), the annual notice required by § 160.5(a), and the revised notice required by § 160.8, so that the customer can retain them or obtain them later in writing or, if the customer agrees, electronically.
(2)
Examples of retention or accessibility.
You provide a privacy notice to the customer so that the customer can retain it or obtain it later if you:
(i) Hand-deliver a printed copy of the notice to the customer;
(ii) Mail a printed copy of the notice to the last known address of the customer; or
(iii) Make your current privacy notice available on a web site (or a link to another web site) for the customer who obtains a financial product or service electronically and agrees to receive the notice at the web site.
(f)
Joint notice with other financial institutions.
You may provide a joint notice from you and one or more of your affiliates or other financial institutions, as identified in the notice, as long as the notice is accurate with respect to you and the other institutions.
(g)
Joint relationships.
If two or more customers jointly obtain a financial product or service from you, you may satisfy the initial, annual, and revised notice requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by providing one notice to those customers jointly; however, you must honor a request by one or more joint account holders for a separate notice.

# Subpart B—Limits on Disclosures
§ 160.10
Limits on disclosure of nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties.
(a)(1)
Conditions for disclosure.
Except as otherwise authorized in this part, you may not, directly or through any affiliate, disclose any nonpublic personal information about a consumer to a nonaffiliated third party unless:
(i) You have provided to the consumer an initial notice as required under § 160.4;
(ii) You have provided to the consumer an opt out notice as required in § 160.7;
(iii) You have given the consumer a reasonable opportunity, before you disclose the information to the nonaffiliated third party, to opt of the disclosure; and
(iv) The consumer does not opt out.
(2)
Opt out definition.
Opt out means a direction by the consumer that you not disclose nonpublic personal information about that consumer to a nonaffiliated third party, other than as permitted by §§ 160.13, 160.14 and 160.15.
(3)
Examples of reasonable opportunity to opt out.
You provide a consumer with a reasonable opportunity to opt out if:
(i)
By mail.
You mail the notices required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to the consumer and allow the consumer to opt out by mailing a form, calling a toll-free telephone number, or any other reasonable means within 30 days after the date you mailed the notices.
(ii)
By electronic means.
A customer opens an on-line account with you and agrees to receive the notices required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section electronically, and you allow the customer to opt out by any reasonable means within 30 days after the date that the customer acknowledges receipt of the notices in conjunction with opening the account.
(iii)
Isolated transaction with consumer. For an isolated transaction with a consumer,
you provide the consumer with a reasonable opportunity to opt out if you provide the notices required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at the time of the transaction and request that the consumer decide, as a necessary part of the transaction, whether to opt out before completing the transaction.
(b)
Application of opt out to all consumers and all nonpublic personal information.
(1) You must comply with this section, regardless of whether you and the consumer have established a customer relationship.
(2) Unless you comply with this section, you may not, directly or through any affiliate, disclose any nonpublic personal information about a consumer that you have collected, regardless of whether you have collected it before or after receiving the direction to opt out from the consumer.
(c)
Partial opt out.
You may allow a consumer to select certain nonpublic personal information or certain nonaffiliated third parties with respect to which the consumer wishes to opt out.
§ 160.11
Limits on redisclosure and reuse of information.
(a) (1)
Information you receive under an exception.
If you receive nonpublic personal information from a nonaffiliated financial institution under an exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15, your disclosure and use of that information is limited as follows:
(i) You may disclose the information to the affiliate of the financial institution from which you received the information;
(ii) You may disclose the information to your affiliates, but your affiliates may, in turn, disclose and use the information only to the extent that you may disclose and use the information; and
(iii) You may disclose and use the information pursuant to an exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15 in the ordinary course of business to carry out the activity covered by the exception under which you received the information.
(2)
Example.
If you receive a customer list from a nonaffiliated financial institution in order to provide account-processing services under the exception in § 160.14(a), you may disclose that information under any exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15 in the ordinary course of business in order to provide those services. For example, you could disclose that information in response to a properly authorized subpoena or in the ordinary course of business to your attorneys, accountants, and auditors. You could not disclose that information to a third party for marketing purposes or use that information for your own marketing purposes.
(b)(1)
Information you receive outside of an exception.
If you receive nonpublic personal information from a nonaffiliated financial institution other than under an exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15, you may disclose the information only:
(i) To the affiliates of the financial institution from which you received the information;
(ii) To your affiliates, but your affiliates may, in turn, disclose the information only to the extent that you can disclose the information; and
(iii) To any other person, if the disclosure would be lawful if made directly to that person by the financial
institution from which you received the information.
(2)
Example.
If you obtain a customer list from a nonaffiliated financial institution outside of the exceptions in §§ 160.14 and 160.15:
(i) You may use that list for your own purposes;
(ii) You may disclose that list to another nonaffiliated third party only if the financial institution from which you purchased the list could have lawfully disclosed that list to that third party. That is, you may disclose the list in accordance with the privacy policy of the financial institution from which you received the list as limited by the opt out direction of each consumer whose nonpublic personal information you intend to disclose, and you may disclose the list in accordance with an exception in §§ 160.14 and 160.15, such as in the ordinary course of business to your attorneys, accountants, or auditors.
(c)
Information you disclose under an exception.
If you disclose nonpublic personal information to a nonaffiliated third party under an exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15, the third party may disclose and use that information only as follows:
(1) The third party may disclose the information to your affiliates;
(2) The third party may disclose the information to its affiliates, but its affiliates may, in turn, disclose and use the information only to the extent that the third party may disclose and use the information; and
(3) The third party may disclose and use the information pursuant to an exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15 in the ordinary course of business to carry out the activity covered by the exception under which it received the information.
(d)
Information you disclose outside of an exception.
If you disclose nonpublic personal information to a nonaffiliated third party other than under an exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15, the third party may disclose the information only:
(1) To your affiliates;
(2) To its affiliates, but its affiliates, in turn, may disclose the information only to the extent the third party can disclose the information; and
(3) To any other person, if the disclosure would be lawful if you made it directly to that person.
§ 160.12
Limits on sharing account number information for marketing purposes.
(a)
General prohibition on disclosure of account numbers.
You must not, directly or through an affiliate, disclose, other than to a consumer reporting agency, an account number or similar form of access number or access code for a consumer's credit card account, deposit account or transaction account to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing through electronic mail to the consumer.
(b)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply if you disclose an account number or similar form of access number or access code:
(1) To your agent or service provider solely in order to perform marketing for your own services or products, as long as the agent or service provider is not authorized to directly initiate charges to the account; or
(2) To a participant in a private-label credit card program or an affinity or similar program where the participants in the program are identified to the customer when the customer enters into the program.
(c)
Example.
An account number, or similar form of access number or access code, does not include a number or code in an encrypted form, as long as you do not provide the recipient with a means to decode the number or code.

# Subpart C—Exceptions
§ 160.13
Exception to opt out requirements for service providers and joint marketing.
(a)
General rule.
(1) The opt out requirements in §§ 160.7 and 160.10 do not apply when you provide nonpublic personal information to a nonaffiliated third party to perform services for you or functions on your behalf if you:
(i) Provide the initial notice in accordance with § 160.4; and
(ii) Enter into a contractual agreement with the third party that prohibits the third party from disclosing or using the information other than to
carry out the purposes for which you disclosed the information, including use under an exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15 in the ordinary course of business to carry out those purposes.
(2)
Example.
If you disclose nonpublic personal information under this section to a financial institution with which you perform joint marketing, your contractual agreement with that institution meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section if it prohibits the institution from disclosing or using the nonpublic personal information except as necessary to carry out the joint marketing or under an exception in § 160.14 or § 160.15 in the ordinary course of business to carry out that joint marketing.
(b)
Service may include joint marketing.
The services a nonaffiliated third party performs for you under paragraph (a) of this section may include marketing of your own products or services or marketing of financial products or services offered pursuant to joint agreements between you and one or more financial institutions.
(c)
Definition of joint agreement.
For purposes of this section,
joint agreement
means a written contract pursuant to which you and one or more financial institutions jointly offer, endorse or sponsor a financial product or service.
§ 160.14
Exceptions to notice and opt out requirements for processing and servicing transactions.
(a)
Exceptions for processing and servicing transactions at consumer's request.
The requirements for initial notice in § 160.4(a)(2), for the opt out in §§ 160.7 and 160.10, and for initial notice in § 160.13 in connection with service providers and joint marketing, do not apply if you disclose nonpublic personal information as necessary to effect, administer, or enforce a transaction that a consumer requests or authorizes, or in connection with:
(1) Processing or servicing a financial product or service that a consumer requests or authorizes;
(2) Maintaining or servicing the consumer's account with you, or with another entity as part of an extension of credit on behalf of such entity as part of a private label credit card program or other extension of credit on behalf of such entity; or
(3) A proposed or actual securitization, secondary market sale or similar transaction related to a transaction of the consumer.
(b)
Necessary to effect, administer or enforce a transaction
means that the disclosure is:
(1) Required, or is one of the lawful or appropriate methods, to enforce your rights or the rights of other persons engaged in carrying out the financial transaction or providing the product or service; or
(2) Required, or is a usual, appropriate or acceptable method:
(i) To carry out the transaction or the product or service business of which the transaction is a part, and record, service or maintain the consumer's account in the ordinary course of providing the financial service or financial product;
(ii) To administer or service benefits or claims relating to the transaction or the product or service business of which it is a part;
(iii) To provide a confirmation, statement or other record of the transaction, or information on the status or value of the financial service or financial product to the consumer or the consumer's agent or broker;
(iv) To accrue or recognize incentives or bonuses associated with the transaction that are provided by you or any other party;
(v) In connection with:
(A) The authorization, settlement, billing, processing, clearing, transferring, reconciling or collection of amounts charged, debited or otherwise paid using a debit, credit or other payment card, check or account number, or by other payment means;
(B) The transfer of receivables, accounts or interests therein; or
(C) The audit of debit, credit or other payment information.
§ 160.15
Other exceptions to notice and opt out requirements.
(a)
Exceptions to notice and opt out requirements.
The requirements for initial notice in § 160.4(a)(2), for the opt out in §§ 160.7 and 160.10, and for initial notice in § 160.13 in connection with service providers and joint marketing do not
apply when you disclose nonpublic personal information:
(1) With the consent or at the direction of the consumer, provided that the consumer has not revoked the consent or direction;
(2)(i) To protect the confidentiality or security or your records pertaining to the consumer, service, product or transaction;
(ii) To protect against or prevent actual or potential fraud, unauthorized transactions, claims or other liability;
(iii) For required institutional risk control or for resolving consumer disputes or inquiries;
(iv) To persons holding a legal or beneficial interest relating to the consumer; or
(v) To persons acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity on behalf of the consumer;
(3) To provide information to insurance rate advisory organizations, guaranty funds or agencies, agencies that are rating you, persons that are assessing your compliance with industry standards, and your attorneys, accountants and auditors;
(4) To the extent specifically permitted or required under other provisions of law and in accordance with the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, 12 U.S.C. 3401
et seq.,
to law enforcement agencies (including a Federal functional regulator, the Secretary of the Treasury, with respect to 31 U.S.C. Chapter 53, Subchapter II (Records and Reports on Monetary Instruments and Transactions) and 12 U.S.C. Chapter 21 (Financial Recordkeeping), a State insurance authority, with respect to any person domiciled in that insurance authority's state that is engaged in providing insurance, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection), self-regulatory organizations, or for an investigation on a matter related to public safety;
(5)(i) To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.;
or
(ii) From a consumer report reported by a consumer reporting agency;
(6) In connection with a proposed or actual sale, merger, transfer or exchange of all or a portion of a business or operating unit if the disclosure of nonpublic personal information concerns solely consumers of such business or unit; or
(7)(i) To comply with federal, state or local laws, rules and other applicable legal requirements;
(ii) To comply with a properly authorized civil, criminal or regulatory investigation, or subpoena or summons by federal, state or local authorities; or
(iii) To respond to judicial process or government regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over you for examination, compliance or other purposes as authorized by law.
(b)
Examples of consent and revocation of consent.
(1) A consumer may specifically consent to your disclosure to a nonaffiliated mortgage lender of the value of the assets in the customer's account so that the lender can evaluate the consumer's application for a mortgage loan.
(2) A consumer may revoke consent by subsequently exercising the right to opt out of future disclosures of nonpublic personal information as permitted under § 160.7(f).
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 43879, July 22, 2011]

# Subpart D—Relation to Other Laws; Effective Date
§ 160.16
Protection of Fair Credit Reporting Act.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to modify, limit or supersede the operation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.,
and no inference shall be drawn on the basis of the provisions of this part regarding whether information is transaction or experience information under section 603 of that Act.
§ 160.17
Relation to state laws.
(a)
In general.
This part shall not be construed as superseding, altering or affecting any statute, regulation, order or interpretation in effect in any state, except to the extent that such state statute, regulation, order or interpretation is inconsistent with the provisions of this part, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency.
(b)
Greater protection under state law.
For purposes of this section, a state
statute, regulation, order or interpretation is not inconsistent with the provisions of this part if the protection such statute, regulation, order or interpretation affords any person is greater than the protection provided under this part, as determined by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, after consultation with the Commission, on its own motion or upon the petition of any interested party.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 43879, July 22, 2011]
§ 160.18
Effective date; compliance date; transition rule.
(a)
Effective date.
This part is effective on June 21, 2001. In order to provide sufficient time for you to establish policies and systems to comply with the requirements for this part, the compliance date for this part is March 31, 2002.
(b)(1)
Notice requirement for consumers who are your customers on the effective date.
By March 31, 2002, you must have provided an initial notice, as required by § 160.4, to consumers who are your customers on March 31, 2002.
(2)
Example.
You provide an initial notice to consumers who are your customers on March 31, 2002 if, by that date, you have established a system for providing an initial notice to all new customers and have mailed the initial notice to all your existing customers.
(c)
One-year grandfathering of service agreements.
Until March 31, 2003, a contract that you have entered into with a nonaffiliated third party to perform services for you or functions on your behalf satisfies the provisions of § 160.13(a)(1)(ii) even if the contract does not include a requirement that the third party maintain the confidentiality of nonpublic personal information, as long as you entered into the agreement on or before March 31, 2002.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 24061, 24183, May 11, 2001; 67 FR 6790, Feb. 13, 2002]
§§ 160.19-160.29
[Reserved]
§ 160.30
Procedures to safeguard customer records and information.
Every futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant, and swap dealer subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission must adopt policies and procedures that address administrative, technical and physical safeguards for the protection of customer records and information. These policies and procedures must be reasonably designed to:
(a) Ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information;
(b) Protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of customer records and information; and
(c) Protect against unauthorized access to or use of customer records or information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer.
[85 FR 29614, May 18, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
Pt. 160, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 160—Model Privacy Form
A. The Model Privacy Form
ER28DE12.003
ER28DE12.004
ER28DE12.005
ER28DE12.006
ER28DE12.007
ER28DE12.008
ER28DE12.009

# B. General Instructions

# 1. How the Model Privacy Form Is Used
(a) The model form may be used, at the option of a financial institution, including a group of financial institutions that use a common privacy notice, to meet the content requirements of the privacy notice and opt-out notice set forth in §§ 160.6 and 160.7 of this part.
(b) The model form is a standardized form, including page layout, content, format, style, pagination, and shading. Institutions seeking to obtain the safe harbor through use of the model form may modify it only as described in these Instructions.
(c) Note that disclosure of certain information, such as assets, income, and information from a consumer reporting agency, may give rise to obligations under the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681-1681x] (FCRA), such as a requirement to permit a consumer to opt out of disclosures to affiliates or designation as a consumer reporting agency if disclosures are made to nonaffiliated third parties.
(d) The word “customer” may be replaced by the word “member” whenever it appears in the model form, as appropriate.

# 2. The Contents of the Model Privacy Form
The model form consists of two pages, which may be printed on both sides of a single sheet of paper, or may appear on two separate pages. Where an institution provides a long list of institutions at the end of the model form in accordance with Instruction C.3(a)(1), or provides additional information in accordance with Instruction C.3(c), and such list or additional information exceeds the space available on page two of the model form, such list or additional information may extend to a third page.
(a)
Page One.
The first page consists of the following components:
(1) Date last revised (upper right-hand corner).
(2) Title.
(3) Key frame (Why?, What?, How?).
(4) Disclosure table (“Reasons we can share your personal information”).
(5) “To limit our sharing” box, as needed, for the financial institution's opt-out information.
(6) “Questions” box, for customer service contact information.
(7) Mail-in opt-out form, as needed.
(b)
Page Two.
The second page consists of the following components:
(1) Heading (Page 2).
(2) Frequently Asked Questions (“Who we are” and “What we do”).
(3) Definitions.
(4) “Other important information” box, as needed.

# 3. The Format of the Model Privacy Form
The format of the model form may be modified only as described below.
(a)
Easily readable type font.
Financial institutions that use the model form must use an easily readable type font. While a number of factors together produce easily readable type font, institutions are required to use a minimum of 10-point font (unless otherwise expressly permitted in these Instructions) and sufficient spacing between the lines of type.
(b)
Logo.
A financial institution may include a corporate logo on any page of the notice, so long as it does not interfere with the
readability of the model form or the space constraints of each page.
(c)
Page size and orientation.
Each page of the model form must be printed on paper in portrait orientation, the size of which must be sufficient to meet the layout and minimum font size requirements, with sufficient white space on the top, bottom, and sides of the content.
(d)
Color.
The model form must be printed on white or light color paper (such as cream) with black or other contrasting ink color. Spot color may be used to achieve visual interest, so long as the color contrast is distinctive and the color does not detract from the readability of the model form. Logos may also be printed in color.
(e)
Languages.
The model form may be translated into languages other than English.

# C. Information Required in the Model Privacy Form
The information in the model form may be modified only as described below:

# 1. Name of the Institution or Group of Affiliated Institutions Providing the Notice
Insert the name of the financial institution providing the notice or a common identity of affiliated institutions jointly providing the notice on the form wherever [name of financial institution] appears.

# 2. Page One
(a)
Last revised date.
The financial institution must insert in the upper right-hand corner the date on which the notice was last revised. The information shall appear in minimum 8-point font as “rev. [month/year]” using either the name or number of the month, such as “rev. July 2009” or “rev. 7/09”.
(b)
General instructions for the “What?” box.
(1) The bulleted list identifies the types of personal information that the institution collects and shares. All institutions must use the term “Social Security number” in the first bullet.
(2) Institutions must use five (5) of the following terms to complete the bulleted list: Income; account balances; payment history; transaction history; transaction or loss history; credit history; credit scores; assets; investment experience; credit-based insurance scores; insurance claim history; medical information; overdraft history; purchase history; account transactions; risk tolerance; medical-related debts; credit card or other debt; mortgage rates and payments; retirement assets; checking account information; employment information; wire transfer instructions.
(c)
General instructions for the disclosure table.
The left column lists reasons for sharing or using personal information. Each reason correlates to a specific legal provision described in paragraph C.2(d) of this Instruction. In the middle column, each institution must provide a “Yes” or “No” response that accurately reflects its information sharing policies and practices with respect to the reason listed on the left. In the right column, each institution must provide in each box one of the following three (3) responses, as applicable, that reflects whether a consumer can limit such sharing: “Yes” if it is required to or voluntarily provides an opt-out; “No” if it does not provide an opt-out; or “We don't share” if it answers “No” in the middle column. Only the sixth row (“For our affiliates to market to you”) may be omitted at the option of the institution.
See
paragraph C.2(d)(6) of this Instruction.
(d)
Specific disclosures and corresponding legal provisions.
(1)
For our everyday business purposes.
This reason incorporates sharing information under §§ 160.14 and 160.15 and with service providers pursuant to § 160.13 of this part other than the purposes specified in paragraphs C.2(d)(2) or C.2(d)(3) of these Instructions.
(2)
For our marketing purposes.
This reason incorporates sharing information with service providers by an institution for its own marketing pursuant to § 160.13 of this part. An institution that shares for this reason may choose to provide an opt-out.
(3)
For joint marketing with other financial companies.
This reason incorporates sharing information under joint marketing agreements between two or more financial institutions and with any service provider used in connection with such agreements pursuant to § 160.13 of this part. An institution that shares for this reason may choose to provide an opt-out.
(4)
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes—information about transactions and experiences.
This reason incorporates sharing information specified in sections 603(d)(2)(A)(i) and (ii) of the FCRA. An institution that shares for this reason may choose to provide an opt-out.
(5)
For our affiliates' everyday business purposes—information about creditworthiness.
This reason incorporates sharing information pursuant to section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the FCRA. An institution that shares for this reason must provide an opt-out.
(6)
For our affiliates to market to you.
This reason incorporates sharing information specified in section 624 of the FCRA. This reason may be omitted from the disclosure table when: the institution does not have affiliates (or does not disclose personal information to its affiliates); the institution's affiliates do not use personal information in a manner that requires an opt-out; or the institution provides the affiliate marketing notice separately. Institutions that include
this reason must provide an opt-out of indefinite duration. An institution not required to provide an opt-out under this subparagraph may elect to include this reason in the model form. Note: The CFTC's Regulations do not address the affiliate marketing rule.
(7)
For nonaffiliates to market to you.
This reason incorporates sharing described in §§ 160.7 and 160.10(a) of this part. An institution that shares personal information for this reason must provide an opt-out.
(e)
To limit our sharing:
A financial institution must include this section of the model form
only
if it provides an opt-out. The word “choice” may be written in either the singular or plural, as appropriate. Institutions must select one or more of the applicable opt-out methods described: telephone, such as by a toll-free number; a Web site; or use of a mail-in opt-out form. Institutions may include the words “toll-free” before telephone, as appropriate. An institution that allows consumers to opt out online must provide either a specific Web address that takes consumers directly to the opt-out page or a general Web address that provides a clear and conspicuous direct link to the opt-out page. The opt-out choices made available to the consumer who contacts the institution through these methods must correspond accurately to the “Yes” responses in the third column of the disclosure table. In the part titled “Please note” institutions may insert a number that is 30 or greater in the space marked “[30].” Instructions on voluntary or state privacy law opt-out information are in paragraph C.2(g)(5) of these Instructions.
(f)
Questions box.
Customer service contact information must be inserted as appropriate, where [phone number] or [Web site] appear. Institutions may elect to provide either a phone number, such as a toll-free number, or a Web address, or both. Institutions may include the words “toll-free” before the telephone number, as appropriate.
(g)
Mail-in opt-out form.
Financial institutions must include this mail-in form
only
if they state in the “To limit our sharing” box that consumers can opt out by mail. The mail-in form must provide opt-out options that correspond accurately to the “Yes” responses in the third column in the disclosure table. Institutions that require customers to provide only name and address may omit the section identified as “[account #].” Institutions that require additional or different information, such as a random opt-out number or a truncated account number, to implement an opt-out election should modify the “[account #]” reference accordingly. This includes institutions that require customers with multiple accounts to identify each account to which the opt-out should apply. An institution must enter its opt-out mailing address: in the far right of this form (
see
version 3); or below the form (
see
version 4). The reverse side of the mail-in opt-out form must not include any content of the model form.
(1)
Joint accountholder.
Only institutions that provide their joint accountholders the choice to opt out for only one accountholder, in accordance with paragraph C.3(a)(5) of these Instructions, must include in the far left column of the mail-in form the following statement: “If you have a joint account, your choice(s) will apply to everyone on your account unless you mark below. Apply my choice(s) only to me.” The word “choice” may be written in either the singular or plural, as appropriate. Financial institutions that provide insurance products or services, provide this option, and elect to use the model form may substitute the word “policy” for “account” in this statement. Institutions that do not provide this option may eliminate this left column from the mail-in form.
(2)
FCRA Section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) opt-out.
If the institution shares personal information pursuant to section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the FCRA, it must include in the mail-in opt-out form the following statement: “Do not share information about my creditworthiness with your affiliates for their everyday business purposes.”
(3)
FCRA Section 624 opt-out.
If the institution incorporates section 624 of the FCRA in accord with paragraph C.2(d)(6) of these Instructions, it must include in the mail-in opt-out form the following statement: “Do not allow your affiliates to use my personal information to market to me.”
(4)
Nonaffiliate opt-out.
If the financial institution shares personal information pursuant to § 160.10(a) of this part, it must include in the mail-in opt-out form the following statement: “Do not share my personal information with nonaffiliates to market their products and services to me.”
(5)
Additional opt-outs.
Financial institutions that use the disclosure table to provide opt-out options beyond those required by Federal law must provide those opt-outs in this section of the model form. A financial institution that chooses to offer an opt-out for its own marketing in the mail-in opt-out form must include one of the two following statements: “Do not share my personal information to market to me.”
or
“Do not use my personal information to market to me.” A financial institution that chooses to offer an opt-out for joint marketing must include the following statement: “Do not share my personal information with other financial institutions to jointly market to me.”
(h)
Barcodes.
A financial institution may elect to include a barcode and/or “tagline” (an internal identifier) in 6-point font at the bottom of page one, as needed for information internal to the institution, so long as these do not interfere with the clarity or text of the form.

# 3. Page Two
(a)
General Instructions for the Questions.
Certain of the Questions may be customized as follows:
(1)
“Who is providing this notice?”
This question may be omitted where only one financial institution provides the model form and that institution is clearly identified in the title on page one. Two or more financial institutions that jointly provide the model form must use this question to identify themselves as required by § 160.9(f) of this part. Where the list of institutions exceeds four (4) lines, the institution must describe in the response to this question the general types of institutions jointly providing the notice and must separately identify those institutions, in minimum 8-point font, directly following the “Other important information” box, or, if that box is not included in the institution's form, directly following the “Definitions.” The list may appear in a multi-column format.
(2)
“How does [name of financial institution] protect my personal information?”
The financial institution may only provide additional information pertaining to its safeguards practices following the designated response to this question. Such information may include information about the institution's use of cookies or other measures it uses to safeguard personal information. Institutions are limited to a maximum of 30 additional words.
(3)
“How does [name of financial institution] collect my personal information?”
Institutions must use five (5) of the following terms to complete the bulleted list for this question: Open an account; deposit money; pay your bills; apply for a loan; use your credit or debit card; seek financial or tax advice; apply for insurance; pay insurance premiums; file an insurance claim; seek advice about your investments; buy securities from us; sell securities to us; direct us to buy securities; direct us to sell your securities; make deposits or withdrawals from your account; enter into an investment advisory contract; give us your income information; provide employment information; give us your employment history; tell us about your investment or retirement portfolio; tell us about your investment or retirement earnings; apply for financing; apply for a lease; provide account information; give us your contact information; pay us by check; give us your wage statements; provide your mortgage information; make a wire transfer; tell us who receives the money; tell us where to send the money; show your government-issued ID; show your driver's license; order a commodity futures or option trade. Institutions that collect personal information from their affiliates and/or credit bureaus must include after the bulleted list the following statement: “We also collect your personal information from others, such as credit bureaus, affiliates, or other companies.” Institutions that do not collect personal information from their affiliates or credit bureaus but do collect information from other companies must include the following statement instead: “We also collect your personal information from other companies.” Only institutions that do not collect any personal information from affiliates, credit bureaus, or other companies can omit both statements.
(4)
“Why can't I limit all sharing?”
Institutions that describe state privacy law provisions in the
“Other important information”
box must use the bracketed sentence: “See below for more on your rights under state law.” Other institutions must omit this sentence.
(5)
“What happens when I limit sharing for an account I hold jointly with someone else?”
Only financial institutions that provide opt-out options must use this question. Other institutions must omit this question. Institutions must choose one of the following two statements to respond to this question: “Your choices will apply to everyone on your account.” or “Your choices will apply to everyone on your account—unless you tell us otherwise.” Financial institutions that provide insurance products or services and elect to use the model form may substitute the word “policy” for “account” in these statements.
(b)
General Instructions for the Definitions.
The financial institution must customize the space below the responses to the three definitions in this section. This specific information must be in italicized lettering to set off the information from the standardized definitions.
(1)
Affiliates.
As required by § 160.6(a)(3) of this part, where [
affiliate information
] appears, the financial institution must:
(i) If it has no affiliates, state: “[
name of financial institution
]
has no affiliates
”;
(ii) If it has affiliates but does not share personal information, state:
“[name of financial institution] does not share with our affiliates”;
or
(iii) If it shares with its affiliates, state, as applicable: “
Our affiliates include companies with a [common corporate identity of financial institution] name; financial companies such as [insert illustrative list of companies]; nonfinancial companies, such as [insert illustrative list of companies]; and others, such as [insert illustrative list].”
(2)
Nonaffiliates.
As required by § 160.6(c)(3) of this part, where [
nonaffiliate information
] appears, the financial institution must:
(i) If it does not share with nonaffiliated third parties, state:
” [name of financial institution] does not share with nonaffiliates so they can market to you”;
or
(ii) If it shares with nonaffiliated third parties, state, as applicable: “
Nonaffiliates
we
share with can include [
list categories of companies such as mortgage companies, insurance companies, direct marketing companies, and nonprofit organizations
].”
(3)
Joint Marketing.
As required by § 160.13 of this part, where [
joint marketing
] appears, the financial institution must:
(i) If it does not engage in joint marketing, state: “
[name of financial institution] doesn't jointly market
”; or
(ii) If it shares personal information for joint marketing, state, as applicable: “
Our joint marketing partners include [list categories of companies such as credit card companies].”
(c)
General instructions for the “Other important information” box.
This box is optional. The space provided for information in this box is not limited. Only the following types of information can appear in this box.
(1) State and/or international privacy law information; and/or
(2) Acknowledgment of receipt form.
[74 FR 62975, Dec. 1, 2009]
Pt. 160, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 160—Sample Clauses
This appendix only applies to privacy notices provided before January 1, 2011. Financial institutions, including a group of financial holding company affiliates that use a common privacy notice, may use the following sample clauses, if the clause is accurate for each institution that uses the notice. Note that disclosure of certain information, such as assets, income and information from a consumer reporting agency, may give rise to obligations under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, such as a requirement to permit a consumer to opt out of disclosures to affiliates or designation as a consumer reporting agency if disclosures are made to nonaffiliated third parties.

# A-1—Categories of Information You Collect (All Institutions)
You may use this clause, as applicable, to meet the requirement of § 160.6(a)(1) to describe the categories of nonpublic personal information you collect.

# Sample Clause A-1
We collect nonpublic personal information about you from the following sources:
• Information we receive from you on applications or other forms;
• Information about your transactions with us, our affiliates or others; and
• Information we receive from a consumer reporting agency.

# A-2—Categories of Information You Disclose (Institutions That Disclose Outside of the Exceptions)
You may use one of these clauses, as applicable, to meet the requirement of § 160.6(a)(2) to describe the categories of nonpublic personal information you disclose. You may use these clauses if you disclose nonpublic personal information other than as permitted by the exceptions in §§ 160.13, 160.14 and 160.15.

# Sample Clause A-2, Alternative 1
We may disclose the following kinds of nonpublic personal information about you:
• Information we receive from you on applications or other forms, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “your name, address, Social Security number, assets and income”];
• Information about your transactions with us, our affiliates or others, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “your account balance, payment history, parties to transactions and credit card usage”]; and
• Information we receive from a consumer reporting agency, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “your creditworthiness and credit history”].

# Sample Clause A-2, Alternative 2
We may disclose all of the information that we collect, as described [describe location in the notice, such as “above” or “below”].

# A-3—Categories of Information You Disclose and Parties To Whom You Disclose (Institutions That Do Not Disclose Outside of the Exceptions)
You may use this clause, as applicable, to meet the requirements of §§ 160.6(a)(2), (3) and (4) to describe the categories of nonpublic personal information about customers and former customers that you disclose and the categories of affiliates and nonaffiliated third parties to whom you disclose. You may use this clause if you do not disclose nonpublic personal information to any party, other than as is permitted by the exceptions in §§ 160.14 and 160.15.

# Sample Clause A-3
We do not disclose any nonpubli
c personal information about our customers or former customers to anyone, except as permitted by law.

# A-4—Categories of Parties To Whom You Disclose (Institutions That Disclose Outside of the Exceptions)
You may use this clause, as applicable, to meet the requirement of § 160.6(a)(3) to describe the categories of affiliates and nonaffiliated third parties to whom you disclose
nonpublic personal information. You may use this clause if you disclose nonpublic personal information other than as permitted by the exceptions in §§ 160.13, 160.14 and 160.15, as well as when permitted by the exceptions in §§ 160.14 and 160.15.

# Sample Clause A-4
We may disclose nonpublic personal information about you to the following types of third parties:
• Financial service providers, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “mortgage bankers”];
• Non-financial companies, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “retailers, direct marketers, airlines and publishers”]; and
• Others, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “non-profit organizations”].
We may also disclose nonpublic personal information about you to nonaffiliated third parties as permitted by law.

# A-5—Service Provider/Joint Marketing Exception
You may use one of these clauses, as applicable, to meet the requirements of § 160.6(a)(5) related to the exception for service providers and joint marketers in § 160.13. If you disclose nonpublic personal information under this exception, you must describe the categories of nonpublic personal information you disclose and the categories of third parties with whom you have contracted.

# Sample Clause A-5, Alternative 1
We may disclose the following information to companies that perform marketing services on our behalf or to other financial institutions with which we have joint marketing agreements:
• Information we receive from you on applications or other forms, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “your name, address, Social Security number, assets and income”];
• Information about your transactions with us, our affiliates, or others, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “your account balance, payment history, parties to transactions and credit card usage”]; and
• Information we receive from a consumer reporting agency, such as [provide illustrative examples, such as “your creditworthiness and credit history”].

# Sample Clause A-5, Alternative 2
We may disclose all of the information we collect, as described [describe location in the notice, such as “above” or “below”] to companies that perform marketing services on our behalf or to other financial institutions with which we have joint marketing agreements.

# A-6—Explanation of Opt Out Right (Institutions That Disclose Outside of the Exceptions)
You may use this clause, as applicable, to meet the requirement of § 160.6(a)(6) to provide an explanation of the consumer's right to opt out of the disclosure of nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties, including the method(s) by which the consumer may exercise that right. You may use this clause if you disclose nonpublic personal information other than as permitted by the exceptions in §§ 160.13, 160.14 and 160.15.

# Sample Clause A-6
If you prefer that we not disclose nonpublic personal information about you to nonaffiliated third parties you may opt out of those disclosures; that is, you may direct us not to make those disclosures (other than disclosures permitted or required by law). If you wish to opt out of disclosures to nonaffiliated third parties, you may [describe a reasonable means of opting out, such as “call the following toll-free number: (insert number)”].

# A-7—Confidentiality and Security (All Institutions)
You may use this clause, as applicable, to meet the requirement of § 160.6(a)(8) to describe your policies and practices with respect to protecting the confidentiality and security of nonpublic personal information.

# Sample Clause A-7
We restrict access to nonpublic personal information about you to [provide an appropriate description, such as “those employees who need to know that information to provide products or services to you”]. We maintain physical, electronic and procedural safeguards that comply with federal standards to safeguard your nonpublic personal information.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 62984, Dec. 1, 2009]
Pt. 162

# PART 162—PROTECTION OF CONSUMER INFORMATION UNDER THE FAIR CREDIT REPORTING ACT
Sec.
162.1
Purpose and scope.
162.2
Definitions.

# Subpart A—Business Affiliate Marketing Rules
162.3
Affiliate marketing opt out and exceptions.
162.4
Scope and duration of opt out.
162.5
Contents of opt-out notice; consolidated and equivalent notices.
162.6
Reasonable opportunity to opt out.
162.7
Reasonable and simple methods of opting out.
162.8
Acceptable delivery of opt-out notices
162.9
Renewal of opt out.
162.10-162.20
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Disposal Rules
162.21
Proper disposal of consumer information.

# Subpart C—Identity Theft Red Flags
162.30
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
162.31
[Reserved]
162.32
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
Appendix A to Part 162—Sample Clauses
Appendix B to Part 162—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation

# Authority:
Sec. 1088, Pub. L. 111-203; 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

# Source:
76 FR 43884, July 22, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 162.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement various provisions in the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681,
et seq.
(“FCRA”), which provide certain protections to consumer information.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to certain consumer information held by the entities listed below. This part shall apply to futures commission merchants, retail foreign exchange dealers, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators, introducing brokers, major swap participants and swap dealers, regardless of whether they are required to register with the Commission. This part does not apply to foreign futures commission merchants, foreign retail foreign exchange dealers, commodity trading advisors, commodity pool operators, introducing brokers, major swap participants and swap dealers unless such entity registers with the Commission. Nothing in this part modifies limits or supersedes the requirements set forth in part 160 of this title.
(c)
Examples.
The examples in this part are not exclusive. Compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this part. Examples in a section illustrate only the issue described in the section and do not illustrate any other issue that may arise in this part.
§ 162.2
Definitions.
(a)
Affiliate.
The term “affiliate” for the purposes of this part means any person that is related by common ownership or common corporate control with a covered affiliate.
(b)
Clear and conspicuous.
The term “clear and conspicuous” means reasonably understandable and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information presented in the notice.
(c)
Common ownership or common corporate control.
The term “common ownership or common corporate control” for the purposes of this part means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Any person who owns beneficially, either directly or through one or more controlled companies, more than 25 percent of the voting securities of any company is presumed to control the company. Any person who does not own more than 25 percent of the voting securities of a company will be presumed not to control the company.
(d)
Company.
The term “company” means any corporation, limited liability company, business trust, general or limited partnership, association, or similar organization.
(e)
Concise
—(1)
In general.
The term “concise” means a reasonably brief expression or statement.
(2)
Combination with other required disclosures.
A notice required by this part may be concise even if it is combined with other disclosures required or authorized by Federal or state law.
(f)
Consumer.
Except as otherwise provided, the term “consumer” means an individual person. The term consumer does not include market makers, floor brokers, locals, or individual persons whose information is not collected to determine eligibility for personal, family, or household purposes.
(g)
Consumer information.
The term “consumer information” means any record about an individual, whether in paper, electronic, or other form, that is
a consumer report or is derived from a consumer report (as defined in section 603(d)(2) of the FCRA). Consumer information also means a compilation of such records. Consumer information does not include information that does not identify individuals, such as aggregate information or blind data.
(h)
Covered affiliate.
The term “covered affiliate” means a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant or swap dealer, which is subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.
(i)
Dispose or Disposal
—(1)
In general.
The terms “dispose” or “disposal” means:
(i) The discarding or abandonment of consumer information; or
(ii) The sale, donation, or transfer of any medium, including computer equipment, upon which consumer information is stored.
(2)
Sale, donation, or transfer of consumer information.
The sale, donation, or transfer of consumer information is not considered disposal for the purposes of subpart B.
(j)
Dodd-Frank Act.
The term “Dodd-Frank Act” means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010)).
(k)
Eligibility information.
The term “eligibility information” means any information that would be a consumer report if the exclusions from the definition of “consumer report” in section 603(d)(2)(A) of the FCRA did not apply. Examples of the type of information that would fall within the definition of eligibility information include an affiliate's own transaction or experience information, such as information about a consumer's account history with that affiliate, and other information, such as information from credit bureau reports or applications. Eligibility information does not include aggregate or blind data that does not contain personal identifiers such as account numbers, names, or addresses.
(l)
FCRA.
The term “FCRA” means the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
).
(m)
Financial product or service.
The term “financial product or service” means any product or service that a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, major swap participant or swap dealer could offer that is subject to the Commission's jurisdiction.
(n)
GLB Act.
The term “GLB Act” means the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (Pub. L. 106-102, 113 Stat. 1338 (1999)).
(o)
Major swap participant.
The term “major swap participant” has the same meaning as in section 1a(33) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
as may be further defined by this title, and includes any person registered as such thereunder.
(p)
Person.
The term “person” means any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, association, or other entity.
(q)
Pre-existing business relationship.
The term “pre-existing business relationship” means a relationship between a person, or a person's licensed agent, and a consumer based on—
(1) A financial contract between the person and the consumer which is in force on the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation by this part;
(2) The purchase, rental, or lease by the consumer of a persons' services or a financial transaction (including holding an active account or policy in force or having another continuing relationship) between the consumer and the person, during the 18-month period immediately preceding the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this part; or
(3) An inquiry or application by the consumer regarding a financial product or service offered by that person during the three-month period immediately preceding the date on which the consumer is sent a solicitation covered by this part.
(r)
Solicitation
—(1)
In general.
The term “solicitation” means the marketing of a financial product or service initiated by an affiliate to a particular consumer that is—
(i) Based on eligibility information communicated to that covered affiliate by an affiliate that has or previously
had the pre-existing business relationship with a consumer as described in this part; and
(ii) Intended to encourage the consumer to purchase or obtain such financial product or service. A solicitation does not include marketing communications that are directed at the general public.
(2)
Examples.
Examples of what communications constitute solicitations include communications such as a telemarketing solicitation, direct mail, or e-mail, when those communications are directed to a specific consumer based on eligibility information. A solicitation does not include communications that are directed at the general public without regard to eligibility information, even if those communications are intended to encourage consumers to purchase financial products and services from the affiliate initiating the communications.
(s)
Swap dealer.
The term “swap dealer” has the same meaning as in section 1a(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
as may be further defined by this title, and includes any person registered as such thereunder.

# Subpart A—Business Affiliate Marketing Rules
§ 162.3
Affiliate marketing opt out and exceptions.
(a)
Initial notice and opt out.
A covered affiliate may not use eligibility information about a consumer that the covered affiliate receives from an affiliate with the consumer to make a solicitation for marketing purposes to such consumer unless—
(1) It is clearly and conspicuously disclosed to the consumer in writing or if the consumer agrees, electronically, in a concise notice that the person may use shared eligibility information about that consumer received from an affiliate to make solicitations for marketing purposes to such consumer;
(2) The consumer is provided a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to opt out, or prohibit the covered affiliate from using eligibility information to make solicitations for marketing purposes to the consumer; and
(3) The consumer has not opted out.
(b)
Persons responsible for satisfying the notice requirement.
The notice required by this section must be provided:
(1) By an affiliate that has or previously had a pre-existing business relationship with a consumer; or
(2) As part of a joint notice from two or more members of an affiliated group of companies, provided that at least one of the affiliates on the joint notice has or previously had a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer.
(c)
Exceptions.
These proposed regulations would not apply to the following covered affiliate:
(1) A covered affiliate that has a pre-existing business relationship with a consumer;
(2) Communications between an employer and employee-consumer (or his or her beneficiary) in connection with an employee benefit plan;
(3) A covered affiliate that is currently providing services to the consumer;
(4) If the consumer initiated the communication with the covered affiliate by oral, electronic, or written means;
(5) If the consumer authorized or requested the covered affiliate's solicitation; or
(6) If compliance by a person with these regulations would prevent that person's compliance with state insurance laws pertaining to unfair discrimination.
(d)
Making solicitations
—(1)
When a solicitation occurs.
A covered affiliate makes a solicitation for marketing purposes if the person—
(i) Receives eligibility information from an affiliate;
(ii) Uses that eligibility information to do one or more of the following:
(A) Identify the consumer or type of consumer to receive a solicitation;
(B) Establish criteria used to select the consumer to receive a solicitation about the covered affiliate's financial products or services; or
(C) Decide which of the services or contracts to market to the consumer or tailor the solicitation to that consumer; and
(iii) As a result of the covered affiliate's use of the eligibility information, the consumer is provided a solicitation.
(2)
Receipt of eligibility information.
A covered affiliate may receive eligibility information from an affiliate in various ways, including when the affiliate places that information into a common database that the covered affiliate may access.
(3)
Service providers.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, a covered affiliate receives or uses an affiliate's eligibility information if a service provider acting on the covered affiliate's behalf (regardless of whether such service provider is a third party or an affiliate of the covered affiliate) receives or uses that information in the manner described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section. All relevant facts and circumstances will determine whether a service provider is acting on behalf of a covered affiliate when it receives or uses an affiliate's eligibility information in connection with marketing the covered affiliate's financial products or services.
(4)
Use by an affiliate of its own eligibility information.
Unless a covered affiliate uses eligibility information that the covered affiliate receives from an affiliate in the manner described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the covered affiliate does not make a solicitation subject to this subpart:
(i) Uses its own eligibility information that it obtained in connection with a pre-existing business relationship it has or previously had with the consumer to market the covered affiliate's financial products or services to the consumer; or
(ii) Directs its service provider to use the affiliate's own eligibility information that it obtained in connection with a pre-existing business relationship it has or previously had with the consumer to market the covered affiliate's financial products or services to the consumer, and the covered affiliate does not communicate directly with the service provider regarding that use.
(5)
Use of eligibility information by a service provider
—(i)
In general.
A covered affiliate does not make a solicitation subject to this subpart if a service provider (including an affiliated or third-party service provider that maintains or accesses a common database that the covered affiliate may access) receives eligibility information from an affiliate that has or previously had a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and uses that eligibility information to market the covered affiliate's financial products or services to the consumer, so long as—
(A) The affiliate controls access to and use of its eligibility information by the service provider (including the right to establish the specific terms and conditions under which the service provider may use such information to market the covered affiliate's financial products or services);
(B) The affiliate establishes specific terms and conditions under which the service provider may access and use such affiliate's eligibility information to market the covered affiliate's financial products and services (or those of affiliates generally) to the consumer, such as the identity of the affiliated companies whose financial products or services may be marketed to the consumer by the service provider, the types of financial products or services of affiliated companies that may be marketed, and the number of times the consumer may receive marketing materials, and periodically evaluates the service provider's compliance with those terms and conditions;
(C) The affiliate requires the service provider to implement reasonable policies and procedures designed to ensure that the service provider uses such affiliate's eligibility information in accordance with the terms and conditions established by such affiliate relating to the marketing of the covered affiliate's financial products or services;
(D) The affiliate is identified on or with the marketing materials provided to the consumer; and
(E) The covered affiliate does not directly use its affiliate's eligibility information in the manner described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Writing requirements.
(A) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) and (C) of this section must be set forth in a written agreement between the affiliate that has or previously had a pre-existing business relationship with the consumer and the service provider; and
(B) The specific terms and conditions established by the affiliate as provided
in paragraph (b)(5)(i)(B) of this section must be set forth in writing.
(e)
Relation to affiliate-sharing notice and opt out.
Nothing in this rulemaking will limit the responsibility of a covered affiliate to comply with the notice and opt-out provisions under other privacy rules under the FCRA, the GLB Act or the CEA.
§ 162.4
Scope and duration of opt out.
(a)
Scope of opt-out election
—(1)
In general.
The consumer's election to opt out prohibits any covered affiliate subject to the scope of the opt-out notice from using eligibility information received from another affiliate to make solicitations to the consumer.
(2)
Continuing relationship
—(i)
In general.
If the consumer establishes a continuing relationship with a covered affiliate or its affiliate, an opt-out notice may apply to eligibility information obtained in connection with—
(A) A single continuing relationship or multiple continuing relationships that the consumer establishes with a covered affiliate or its affiliates, including continuing relationships established subsequent to delivery of the opt-out notice, so long as the notice adequately describes the continuing relationships covered by the opt out; or
(B) Any other transaction between the consumer and the covered affiliate or its affiliates as described in the notice.
(ii)
Examples of a continuing relationship.
A consumer has a continuing relationship with a covered affiliate or its affiliate if:
(A) The covered affiliate is a futures commission merchant through whom a consumer has opened an account, or that carries the consumer's account on a fully-disclosed basis, or that effects or engages in commodity interest transactions with or for a consumer, even if the covered affiliate does not hold any assets of the consumer;
(B) The covered affiliate is an introducing broker that solicits or accepts specific orders for trades;
(C) The covered affiliate is a commodity trading advisor with whom a consumer has a contract or subscription, either written or oral, regardless of whether the advice is standardized, or is based on, or tailored to, the commodity interest or cash market positions or other circumstances or characteristics of the particular consumer;
(D) The covered affiliate is a commodity pool operator, and accepts or receives from the consumer, funds, securities, or property for the purpose of purchasing an interest in a commodity pool;
(E) The covered affiliate is a major swap participant that holds securities or other assets as collateral for a loan made to the consumer, even if the covered affiliate did not make the loan or do not affect any transactions on behalf of the consumer; or
(F) The covered affiliate is a swap dealer that regularly effects or engages in swap transactions with or for a consumer even if the covered affiliate does not hold any assets of the consumer.
(3)
No continuing relationship
—(i)
In general.
If there is no continuing relationship between a consumer and the covered affiliate or its affiliate, and the covered affiliate or its affiliate obtain eligibility information about a consumer in connection with a transaction with the consumer, such as an isolated transaction or a credit application that is denied, an opt-out notice provided to the consumer only applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with that transaction.
(ii)
Examples of no continuing relationship.
A consumer does not have a continuing relationship with a covered affiliate or its affiliate if:
(A) The covered affiliate has acted solely as a “finder” for a futures commission merchant, and the covered affiliate does not solicit or accept specific orders for trades; or
(B) The covered affiliate has solicited the consumer to participate in a pool or to direct his or her account and he or she has not provided the covered affiliate with funds to participate in a pool or entered into any agreement with the covered affiliate to direct his or her account.
(4)
Menu of alternatives.
A consumer may be given the opportunity to choose from a menu of alternatives when electing to prohibit solicitations, such as by electing to prohibit solicitations from certain types of affiliates covered by the opt-out notice but not other types of affiliates covered by the
notice, electing to prohibit solicitations based on certain types of eligibility information but not other types of eligibility information, or electing to prohibit solicitations by certain methods of delivery but not other methods of delivery. However, one of the alternatives must allow the consumer to prohibit all solicitations from all of the affiliates that are covered by the notice.
(5)
Special rule for a notice following termination of all continuing relationships.
A consumer must be given a new opt-out notice if, after all continuing relationships with the covered affiliate or its affiliate(s) are terminated, the consumer subsequently establishes another continuing relationship with the covered affiliate or its affiliate(s) and the consumer's eligibility information is to be used to make a solicitation. The new opt-out notice must apply, at a minimum, to eligibility information obtained in connection with the new continuing relationship. Consistent with paragraph b of this section, the consumer's decision not to opt out after receiving the new opt-out notice would not override a prior opt-out election by the consumer that applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with a terminated relationship, regardless of whether the new opt-out notice applies to eligibility information obtained in connection with the terminated relationship.
(b)
Duration of opt-out election.
An opt-out election must be effective for a period of at least five years beginning when the consumer's opt-out election is received and implemented, unless the consumer subsequently revokes the opt-out election in writing or, if the consumer agrees, electronically. An opt-out election may be established for a period of more than five years or for an indefinite period unless revoked.
(c)
Time period in which a consumer can opt out.
A consumer may opt out at any time.
(d)
No effect on opt-out period.
An opt-out period may not be shortened by sending a renewal notice to the consumer before expiration of the opt-out period, even if the consumer does not renew the opt out.
§ 162.5
Contents of opt-out notice; consolidated and equivalent notices.
(a)
Contents of the opt-out notice
—(1)
In general.
An opt-out notice must be in writing, be clear and conspicuous, as well as concise, and must accurately disclose the following:
(i) (A) The name of the affiliate that has or previously had a pre-existing business relationship with a consumer, which is providing the notice; or
(B) If jointly provided jointly by multiple affiliates and each affiliate shares a common name, then the notice may indicate that it is being provided by multiple companies with the same name or multiple companies in the same group or family of companies. If the affiliates providing the notice do not share a common name, then the notice must either separately identify each affiliate by name or identify each of the common names used by those affiliates;
(ii) The list of affiliates or types of affiliates whose use of eligibility information is covered by the notice, which may include companies that become affiliates after the notice is provided to the consumer;
(iii) A general description of the types of eligibility information that may be used to make solicitations to the consumer;
(iv) A statement that the consumer may elect to limit the use of eligibility information to make solicitations to the consumer;
(v) A statement that the consumer's election will apply for the specified period of time and, if applicable, that the consumer will be allowed to renew the election once that period expires;
(vi) If the notice is provided to consumers who have previously elected to opt out, that such consumer does not need to act again until the consumer receives a renewal notice; and
(vii) A reasonable and simple method for the consumer to opt out.
(2)
Specifying length of time period.
If consumer is granted an opt-out period longer than a five-year duration, the opt-out notice must specify the length of the opt-out period.
(3)
No revised notice for extension of opt-out period.
The duration of an opt-out period may be increased for a period longer than the period specified in
the opt-out notice without having to provide a revised notice of the increase to the consumer.
(b)
Joint relationships.
(1) If two or more consumers jointly obtain a financial product or service, a single opt-out notice may be provided to joint consumers.
(2) Any of the joint consumers may exercise the right to opt out on behalf of each joint consumer.
(3) The opt-out election notice must explain how an opt-out election by a joint consumer will be treated. That is, the notice should specify whether an opt-out election by a joint consumer will be treated as applying to all of the associated joint consumers, or as applying to each joint consumer separately.
(4) If the opt-out election notice provides that each joint consumer is permitted to opt out separately, one of the joint consumers must be permitted to opt out on behalf of all of the joint consumers and the joint consumer must be permitted to exercise his or her separate rights to opt out in a single response.
(5) A covered affiliate cannot require all joint consumers to opt out before implementing any opt-out election.
(c)
Alternative contents.
If the consumer is afforded a broader right to opt out of receiving marketing than is required by this subpart, the requirements of this section may be satisfied by providing the consumer with a clear, conspicuous, and concise notice that accurately discloses the consumer's opt-out rights.
(d)
Coordinated and consolidated consumer notices.
A notice required by this subpart may be coordinated and consolidated with any other notice or disclosure required to be issued under any other provision of law by the covered affiliate providing the notice, including but not limited to notices in the FCRA or the GLB Act privacy notices.
(e)
Equivalent notices.
A notice or disclosure that is equivalent to the notice required by this part in terms of content, and that is provided to a consumer together with a notice required by any other provision of law, satisfies the requirements of this section.
(f)
Model notices.
Model notices are provided in appendix A of this part. These notices were meant to facilitate compliance with this subpart; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be interpreted to require persons subject to this part to use the model notices.
§ 162.6
Reasonable opportunity to opt out.
(a)
In general.
A covered affiliate must not use eligibility information about a consumer that the covered affiliate receives from an affiliate to make a solicitation to such consumer about the covered affiliate's financial products or services, unless the consumer is provided a reasonable opportunity to opt out, as required by this subpart.
(b)
Examples.
A reasonable opportunity to opt out under this subpart is:
(1) If the opt-out notice is mailed to the consumer, the consumer has 30 days from the date the notice is mailed to opt out.
(2) If the opt-out notice is sent
via
electronic means to the consumer, the consumer has 30 days from the date the consumer acknowledges receipt to elect to opt out by any reasonable method.
(3) If the opt-out notice is sent
via
e-mail (where the consumer has agreed to receive disclosures by e-mail), the consumer is given 30 days after the e-mail is sent to elect to opt out by any reasonable method.
(4) If the opt-out notice provided to the consumer at the time of an electronic transaction, the consumer is required to decide, as a necessary part of proceeding with the transaction, whether to opt out before completing the transaction.
(5) If the opt-out notice is provided during an in-person transaction, the consumer is required to decide, as a necessary part of completing the transaction, whether to opt out through a simple process.
(6) If the opt-out notice is provided in conjunction with other privacy notices required by law, the consumer is allowed to exercise the opt-out election within a reasonable period of time and in the same manner as the opt out under that privacy notice.
§ 162.7
Reasonable and simple methods of opting out.
(a)
In general.
A covered affiliate shall be prohibited from using eligibility information about a consumer received from an affiliate to make a solicitation to the consumer about the covered affiliate's financial products or services, unless the consumer is provided a reasonable and simple method to opt out, as required by this subpart.
(b)
Examples.
Reasonable and simple methods of opting out include:
(1) Designating a check-off box in a prominent position on an opt-out election form;
(2) Including a reply form and a self-addressed envelope (in a mailing);
(3) Providing an electronic means, if the consumer agrees, that can be electronically mailed or processed through an Internet Web site;
(4) Providing a toll-free telephone number; or
(5) Exercising an opt-out election through whatever means are acceptable under a consolidated privacy notice required under other laws.
(c)
Specific opt-out method.
Each consumer may be required to opt out through a specific method, as long as that method is acceptable under this subpart.
§ 162.8
Acceptable delivery methods of opt-out notices.
(a)
In general.
The opt-out notice must be provided so that each consumer can reasonably be expected to receive actual notice.
(b)
Electronic notices.
For opt-out notices provided electronically, the notice may be provided in compliance with either the electronic disclosure provisions in § 1.4 of this title or the provisions in section 101 of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
§ 162.9
Renewal of opt out.
(a)
Renewal notice and opt-out requirement
—(1)
In general.
Since the FCRA provides that opt-out elections can expire in a period of no less than five years, an affiliate that has or previously had a pre-existing business relationship with a consumer must provide a renewal notice to the consumer after such time in order to allow its affiliates to make solicitations. After the opt-out election period expires, its affiliates may make solicitations unless:
(i) The consumer has been given a renewal notice that complies with the requirements of this section and §§ 162.6 through 162.8 of this subpart, and a reasonable opportunity and a reasonable and simple method to renew the opt-out election, and the consumer does not renew the opt out; or
(ii) An exception in Sec. 162.3(c) of this subpart applies.
(2)
Renewal period.
Each opt-out renewal must be effective for a period of at least five years as provided in § 162.4(b) of this subpart.
(3)
Affiliates who may provide the renewal notice.
The notice required by this paragraph must be provided:
(i) By the affiliate that provided the previous opt-out notice, or its successor; or
(ii) As part of a joint renewal notice from two or more members of an affiliated group of companies, or their successors, that jointly provided the previous opt-out notice.
(b)
Contents of renewal or extension notice.
The contents of the renewal notice must include all of the same contents of the initial notices, but also must include:
(1) A statement that the consumer previously elected to limit the use of certain information to make solicitations to the consumer;
(2) A statement that the consumer may elect to renew the consumer's previous election; and
(3) If applicable, a statement that the consumer's election to renew will apply for a specified period of time stated in the notice and that the consumer will be allowed to renew the election once that period expires.
(c)
Timing of renewal notice.
Renewal notices must be provided in a reasonable period of time before the expiration of the opt-out election period or any time after the expiration of the opt-out period, but before solicitations that would have been prohibited by the expired opt-out election are made to the consumer.
(d)
No effect on opt-out period.
An opt-out period may not be shortened by
sending a renewal notice to the consumer before the expiration of the opt-out period, even if the consumer does not renew the opt-out election.
§§ 162.10-162.20
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Disposal Rules
§ 162.21
Proper disposal of consumer information.
(a)
In general.
Any covered affiliate must adopt must adopt reasonable, written policies and procedures that address administrative, technical, and physical safeguards for the protection of consumer information. These written policies and procedures must be reasonably designed to:
(1) Ensure the security and confidentiality of consumer information;
(2) Protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of consumer information; and
(3) Protect against unauthorized access to or use of consumer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any consumer.
(b)
Standard.
Any covered affiliate under this part who maintains or otherwise possesses consumer information for a business purpose must properly dispose of such information by taking reasonable measures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of the information in connection with its disposal.
(c)
Examples.
The following examples are “reasonable” disposal measures for the purposes of this subpart—
(1) Implementing and monitoring compliance with policies and procedures that require the burning, pulverizing, or shredding of papers containing consumer information so that the information cannot practicably be read or reconstructed;
(2) Implementing and monitoring compliance with policies and procedures that require the destruction or erasure of electronic media containing consumer information so that the information cannot practically be read or reconstructed; and
(3) After due diligence, entering into and monitoring compliance with a written contract with another party engaged in the business of record destruction to dispose of consumer information in a manner that is consistent with this rule.
(d)
Relation to other laws.
Nothing in this section shall be construed:
(1) To require a person to maintain or destroy any record pertaining to a consumer that is imposed under Sec. 1.31 or any other provision of law; or
(2) To alter or affect any requirement imposed under any other provision of law to maintain or destroy such a record.
[66 FR 21252, Apr. 27, 2001, as amended at 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]

# Subpart C—Identity Theft Red Flags

# Source:
78 FR 23661, Apr. 19, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 162.30
Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
(a)
Scope of this subpart.
This section applies to financial institutions or creditors that are subject to administrative enforcement of the FCRA by the Commission pursuant to Sec. 621(b)(1) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681s(b)(1).
(b)
Special definitions for this subpart.
For purposes of this section, and appendix B to this part, the following definitions apply:
(1) Account means a continuing relationship established by a person with a financial institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family, household or business purposes. Account includes an extension of credit, such as the purchase of property or services involving a deferred payment.
(2) The term
board of directors
includes:
(i) In the case of a branch or agency of a foreign bank, the managing official in charge of the branch or agency; and
(ii) In the case of any other creditor that does not have a board of directors, a designated senior management employee.
(3)
Covered account
means:
(i) An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments
or transactions, such as a margin account; and
(ii) Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.
(4)
Credit
has the same meaning in Sec. 603(r)(5) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(5)
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4), and includes any futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, swap dealer, or major swap participant that regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of credit; or in acting as an assignee of an original creditor, participates in the decision to extend, renew, or continue credit.
(6)
Customer
means a person that has a covered account with a financial institution or creditor.
(7)
Financial institution
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t) and includes any futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, swap dealer, or major swap participant that directly or indirectly holds a transaction account belonging to a consumer.
(8)
Identifying information
means any name or number that may be used, alone or in conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person, including any—
(i) Name, Social Security number, date of birth, official State or government issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number;
(ii) Unique biometric data, such as fingerprint, voice print, retina or iris image, or other unique physical representation;
(iii) Unique electronic identification number, address, or routing code; or
(iv) Telecommunication identifying information or access device (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1029(e)).
(9)
Identity theft
means a fraud committed or attempted using the identifying information of another person without authority.
(10)
Red Flag
means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.
(11)
Service provider
means a person that provides a service directly to the financial institution or creditor.
(c)
Periodic identification of covered accounts.
Each financial institution or creditor must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. As a part of this determination, a financial institution or creditor shall conduct a risk assessment to determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, taking into consideration:
(1) The methods it provides to open its accounts;
(2) The methods it provides to access its accounts; and
(3) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(d)
Establishment of an Identity Theft Prevention Program
—(1)
Program requirement.
Each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts must develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. The Identity Theft Prevention Program must be appropriate to the size and complexity of the financial institution or creditor and the nature and scope of its activities.
(2)
Elements of the Identity Theft Prevention Program.
The Identity Theft Prevention Program must include reasonable policies and procedures to:
(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the covered accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, and incorporate those Red Flags into its Identity Theft Prevention Program;
(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Identity Theft
Prevention Program of the financial institution or creditor;
(iii) Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
(iv) Ensure the Identity Theft Prevention Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) is updated periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.
(e)
Administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program.
Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement an Identity Theft Prevention Program must provide for the continued administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program and must:
(1) Obtain approval of the initial written Identity Theft Prevention Program from either its board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of directors;
(2) Involve the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated employee at the level of senior management in the oversight, development, implementation and administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program;
(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement the Identity Theft Prevention Program; and
(4) Exercise appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements.
(f)
Guidelines.
Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement an Identity Theft Prevention Program must consider the guidelines in appendix B of this part and include in its Identity Theft Prevention Program those guidelines that are appropriate.
§ 162.31
[Reserved]
§ 162.32
Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to a person described in § 162.30(a) that issues a debit or credit card (card issuer).
(b)
Definition of cardholder.
For purposes of this section, a cardholder means a consumer who has been issued a credit or debit card.
(c)
Address validation requirements.
A card issuer must establish and implement reasonable policies and procedures to assess the validity of a change of address if it receives notification of a change of address for a consumer's debit or credit card account and, within a short period of time afterwards (during at least the first 30 days after it receives such notification), the card issuer receives a request for an additional or replacement card for the same account. Under these circumstances, the card issuer may not issue an additional or replacement card, until, in accordance with its reasonable policies and procedures and for the purpose of assessing the validity of the change of address, the card issuer:
(1)(i) Notifies the cardholder of the request:
(A) At the cardholder's former address; or
(B) By any other means of communication that the card issuer and the cardholder have previously agreed to use; and
(ii) Provides to the cardholder a reasonable means of promptly reporting incorrect address changes; or
(2) Otherwise assesses the validity of the change of address in accordance with the policies and procedures the card issuer has established pursuant to § 162.30.
(d)
Alternative timing of address validation.
A card issuer may satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section if it validates an address pursuant to the methods in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section when it receives an address change notification, before it receives a request for an additional or replacement card.
(e)
Form of notice.
Any written or electronic notice that the card issuer provides under this paragraph must be clear and conspicuous and provided separately from its regular correspondence with the cardholder.
Pt. 162, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 162—Sample Clauses
A. Although use of the model forms is not required, use of the model forms in this appendix (as applicable) complies with the requirement in section 624 of the FCRA for clear, conspicuous, and concise notices.
B. Certain changes may be made to the language or format of the model forms without losing the protection from liability afforded by use of the model forms. These changes may not be so extensive as to affect the substance, clarity, or meaningful sequence of the language in the model forms. Persons making such extensive revisions will lose the safe harbor that this appendix provides. Acceptable changes include, for example:
1. Rearranging the order of the references to “your income”, “your account history”, and “your credit score”.
2. Substituting other types of information for “income”, “account history”, or “credit score” for accuracy, such as “payment history”, “credit history”, or “claims history”.
3. Substituting a clearer and more accurate description of the affiliates providing or covered by the notice for phrases such as “the [ABC] group of companies,” including without limitation a statement that the entity providing the notice recently purchased the consumer's account.
4. Substituting other types of affiliates covered by the notice for “commodity advisor”, “futures clearing merchant”, or “swap dealer” affiliates.
5. Omitting items that are not accurate or applicable. For example, if a person does not limit the duration of the opt-out period, the notice may omit information about the renewal notice.
6. Adding a statement informing consumers how much time they have to opt out before shared eligibility information may be used to make solicitations to them.
7. Adding a statement that the consumer may exercise the right to opt out at any time.
8. Adding the following statement, if accurate: “If you previously opted out, you do not need to do so again.”
9. Providing a place on the form for the consumer to fill in identifying information, such as his or her name and address.
• A-1 Model Form for Initial Opt-out notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)
• A-2 Model Form for Initial Opt-out notice (Joint Notice)
• A-3 Model Form for Renewal Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)
• A-4 Model Form for Renewal Notice (Joint Notice)
• A-5 Model Form for Voluntary “No Marketing” Notice

# A-1 Model Form for Initial Opt-Out Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)

# [Your Choice To Limit Marketing]/[Marketing Opt Out]
—[Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
—[Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from our affiliates. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from our affiliates.]
—You may limit our affiliates in the [ABC] group of companies, such as our [commodity advisor, futures clearing merchant, and swap dealer] affiliates, from marketing their financial products or services to you based on your personal information that we collect and share with them. This information includes your [income], your [account history with us], and your [credit score].
—Your choice to limit marketing offers from our affiliates will apply [until you tell us to change your choice]/[for x years from when you tell us your choice]/[for at least 5 years from when you tell us your choice]. [Include if the opt-out period expires.] Once that period expires, you will receive a renewal notice that will allow you to continue to limit marketing offers from our affiliates for [another x years]/[at least another 5 years].
—[Include, if applicable, in a subsequent notice, including an annual notice, for consumers who may have previously opted out.] If you have already made a choice to limit marketing offers from our affiliates, you do not need to act again until you receive the renewal notice.
To limit marketing offers, contact us [include all that apply]:
—By telephone: 1-877-###-####
—On the Web:
www.—.com
—By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
—[Company name]
—[Company address]
__Do not allow your affiliates to use my personal information to market to me.

# A-2 Model Form for Initial Opt-Out Notice (Joint Notice)

# [Your Choice to Limit Marketing]/[Marketing Opt Out]
—The [ABC group of companies] is providing this notice.
—[Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from the [ABC] companies. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from the [ABC] companies.]
—You may limit the [ABC companies], such as the [ABC commodity advisor, futures
clearing merchant, and swap dealer] affiliates, from marketing their financial products or services to you based on your personal information that they receive from other [ABC] companies. This information includes your [income], your [account history], and your [credit score].
—Your choice to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies will apply [until you tell us to change your choice]/[for x years from when you tell us your choice]/[for at least 5 years from when you tell us your choice]. [Include if the opt-out period expires.] Once that period expires, you will receive a renewal notice that will allow you to continue to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies for [another x years]/[at least another 5 years].
−[Include, if applicable, in a subsequent notice, including an annual notice, for consumers who may have previously opted out.] If you have already made a choice to limit marketing offers from the [ABC] companies, you do not need to act again until you receive the renewal notice.
To limit marketing offers, contact us
[include all that apply]:
By telephone: 1-877-###-####
On the Web: www.—.com
By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
__ Do not allow any company [in the ABC group of companies] to use my personal information to market to me.

# A-3 Model Form for Renewal Notice (Single-Affiliate Notice)

# [Renewing Your Choice To Limit Marketing]/[Renewing Your Marketing Opt Out]
−[Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
−[Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from our affiliates. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from our affiliates.]
−You previously chose to limit our affiliates in the [ABC] group of companies, such as our [commodity advisor, futures clearing merchant, and swap dealer] affiliates, from marketing their financial products or services to you based on your personal information that we share with them. This information includes your [income], your [account history with us], and your [credit score].
−Your choice has expired or is about to expire.
To renew your choice to limit marketing for [x] more years, contact us [include all that apply]:
By telephone: 1-877-###-####
On the Web:
www.—.com
By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
__Renew my choice to limit marketing for [x] more years.

# A-4 Model Form for Renewal Notice (Joint Notice)

# [Renewing Your Choice To Limit Marketing]/[Renewing Your Marketing Opt Out]
−The [ABC group of companies] is providing this notice.
−[Optional: Federal law gives you the right to limit some but not all marketing from the [ABC] companies. Federal law also requires us to give you this notice to tell you about your choice to limit marketing from the [ABC] companies.]
−You previously chose to limit the [ABC companies], such as the [ABC commodity advisor, futures clearing merchant, and swap dealer] affiliates, from marketing their financial products or services to you based on your personal information that they receive from other [ABC] companies. This information includes your [income], your [account history], and your [credit score].
−Your choice has expired or is about to expire.
To renew your choice to limit marketing for [x] more years, contact us [include all that apply]:
By telephone: 1-877-###-####
On the Web:
www.—.com
By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
__ Renew my choice to limit marketing for [x] more years.

# A-5 Model Form for Voluntary “No Marketing” Notice

# [Your Choice To Stop Marketing]
−[Name of Affiliate] is providing this notice.
You may choose to stop all marketing from us and our affiliates.
To stop all marketing offers, contact us [include all that apply]:
By telephone: 1-877-###-####
On the Web:
www.—.com
By mail: check the box and complete the form below, and send the form to:
[Company name]
[Company address]
__ Do not market to me.
Pt. 162, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 162—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention, and Mitigation
Section 162.30 requires each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts, as defined in § 162.30(b)(3), to develop and provide for the continued administration of a written Identity Theft Prevention Program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. These guidelines are intended to assist financial institutions and creditors in the formulation and maintenance of an Identity Theft Prevention Program that satisfies the requirements of § 162.30.

# I. The Identity Theft Prevention Program
In designing its Identity Theft Prevention Program, a financial institution or creditor may incorporate, as appropriate, its existing policies, procedures, and other arrangements that control reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.

# II. Identifying Relevant Red Flags
(a)
Risk factors.
A financial institution or creditor should consider the following factors in identifying relevant Red Flags for covered accounts, as appropriate:
(1) The types of covered accounts it offers or maintains;
(2) The methods it provides to open its covered accounts;
(3) The methods it provides to access its covered accounts; and
(4) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(b)
Sources of Red Flags.
Financial institutions and creditors should incorporate relevant Red Flags from sources such as:
(1) Incidents of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has experienced;
(2) Methods of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has identified that reflect changes in identity theft risks; and
(3) Applicable supervisory guidance.
(c)
Categories of Red Flags.
The Identity Theft Prevention Program should include relevant Red Flags from the following categories, as appropriate. Examples of Red Flags from each of these categories are appended as Supplement A to this Appendix B.
(1) Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies or service providers, such as fraud detection services;
(2) The presentation of suspicious documents;
(3) The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious address change;
(4) The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account; and
(5) Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the financial institution or creditor.

# III. Detecting Red Flags
The Identity Theft Prevention Program's policies and procedures should address the detection of Red Flags in connection with the opening of covered accounts and existing covered accounts, such as by:
(a) Obtaining identifying information about, and verifying the identity of, a person opening a covered account; and
(b) Authenticating customers, monitoring transactions, and verifying the validity of change of address requests, in the case of existing covered accounts.

# IV. Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
The Identity Theft Prevention Program's policies and procedures should provide for appropriate responses to the Red Flags the financial institution or creditor has detected that are commensurate with the degree of risk posed. In determining an appropriate response, a financial institution or creditor should consider aggravating factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer's account records held by the financial institution or creditor, or third party, or notice that a customer has provided information related to a covered account held by the financial institution or creditor to someone fraudulently claiming to represent the financial institution or creditor or to a fraudulent Internet Web site. Appropriate responses may include the following:
(a) Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
(b) Contacting the customer;
(c) Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that permit access to a covered account;
(d) Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
(e) Not opening a new covered account;
(f) Closing an existing covered account;
(g) Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered account to a debt collector;
(h) Notifying law enforcement; or
(i) Determining that no response is warranted under the particular circumstances.

# V. Updating the Identity Theft Prevention Program
Financial institutions and creditors should update the Identity Theft Prevention Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, based on factors such as:
(a) The experiences of the financial institution or creditor with identity theft;
(b) Changes in methods of identity theft;
(c) Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
(d) Changes in the types of accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains; and
(e) Changes in the business arrangements of the financial institution or creditor, including mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.

# VI. Methods for Administering the Identity Theft Prevention Program
(a)
Oversight of Identity Theft Prevention Program.
Oversight by the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated senior management employee should include:
(1) Assigning specific responsibility for the Identity Theft Prevention Program's implementation;
(2) Reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 162.30; and
(3) Approving material changes to the Identity Theft Prevention Program as necessary to address changing identity theft risks.
(b)
Reports.
(1)
In general.
Staff of the financial institution or creditor responsible for development, implementation, and administration of its Identity Theft Prevention Program should report to the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated senior management employee, at least annually, on compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 162.30.
(2)
Contents of report.
The report should address material matters related to the Identity Theft Prevention Program and evaluate issues such as: The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the financial institution or creditor in addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts; service provider arrangements; significant incidents involving identity theft and management's response; and recommendations for material changes to the Identity Theft Prevention Program.
(c)
Oversight of service provider arrangements.
Whenever a financial institution or creditor engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the financial institution or creditor should take steps to ensure that the activity of the service provider is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. For example, a financial institution or creditor could require the service provider by contract to have policies and procedures to detect relevant Red Flags that may arise in the performance of the service provider's activities, and either report the Red Flags to the financial institution or creditor, or to take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.

# VII. Other Applicable Legal Requirements
Financial institutions and creditors should be mindful of other related legal requirements that may be applicable, such as:
(a) For financial institutions and creditors that are subject to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), filing a Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation;
(b) Implementing any requirements under 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(h) regarding the circumstances under which credit may be extended when the financial institution or creditor detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c) Implementing any requirements for furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2, for example, to correct or update inaccurate or incomplete information, and to not report information that the furnisher has reasonable cause to believe is inaccurate; and
(d) Complying with the prohibitions in 15 U.S.C. 1681m on the sale, transfer, and placement for collection of certain debts resulting from identity theft.

# Supplement A to Appendix B
In addition to incorporating Red Flags from the sources recommended in section II(b) of the Guidelines in Appendix B of this part, each financial institution or creditor may consider incorporating into its Identity Theft Prevention Program, whether singly or in combination, Red Flags from the following illustrative examples in connection with covered accounts:

# Alerts, Notifications or Warnings From a Consumer Reporting Agency
1. A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report.
2. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer report.
3. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy, as defined in Sec. 603(f) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f)).
4. A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
a. A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to recently established credit relationships; or
d. An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.

# Suspicious Documents
5. Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or forged.
6. The photograph or physical description on the identification is not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the identification.
7. Other information on the identification is not consistent with information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer presenting the identification.
8. Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check.
9. An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.

# Suspicious Personal Identifying Information
10. Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when compared against external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File.
11. Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of birth.
12. Personal identifying information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is the same as the address provided on a fraudulent application; or
b. The phone number on an application is the same as the number provided on a fraudulent application.
13. Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison; or
b. The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or answering service.
14. The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons opening an account or other customers.
15. The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of other persons opening accounts or by other customers.
16. The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in response to notification that the application is incomplete.
17. Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with personal identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor.
18. For financial institutions or creditors that use challenge questions, the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer report.

# Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related to, the Covered Account
19. Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered account, the institution or creditor receives a request for a new, additional, or replacement means of accessing the account or for the addition of an authorized user on the account.
20. A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly associated with known patterns of fraud. For example:
a. The majority of available credit is used for cash advances or merchandise that is easily convertible to cash (e.g., electronics equipment or jewelry); or
b. The customer fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
21. A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
a. Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
b. A material increase in the use of available credit;
c. A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;
d. A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in connection with a deposit account; or
e. A material change in telephone call patterns in connection with a cellular phone account.
22. A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of
account, the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
23. Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the customer's covered account.
24. The financial institution or creditor is notified that the customer is not receiving paper account statements.
25. The financial institution or creditor is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in connection with a customer's covered account.

# Notice From Customers, Victims of Identity Theft, Law Enforcement Authorities, or Other Persons Regarding Possible Identity Theft in Connection With Covered Accounts Held by the Financial Institution or Creditor
26. The financial institution or creditor is notified by a customer, a victim of identity theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
[78 FR 23660, Apr. 19, 2013]
Pt. 165

# PART 165—WHISTLEBLOWER RULES
Sec.
165.1
General.
165.2
Definitions.
165.3
Procedures for submitting original information.
165.4
Confidentiality.
165.5
Requirements for consideration of an award.
165.6
Whistleblowers ineligible for an award.
165.7
Procedures for award applications in Commission actions and related actions, and Commission award determinations.
165.8
Amount of award.
165.9
Criteria for determining amount of award.
165.10
Contents of record for award determination.
165.11
Awards based upon related actions.
165.12
Payment of awards from the Fund, financing of customer education initiatives, and deposits and credits to the Fund.
165.13
Appeals.
165.14
Procedures applicable to the payment of awards.
165.15
Administering the whistleblower program.
165.16
No immunity.
165.17
Awards to whistleblowers who engage in culpable conduct.
165.18
Staff communications with whistleblowers from represented entities.
165.19
Nonenforceability of certain provisions waiving rights and remedies or requiring arbitration of disputes.
165.20
Whistleblower anti-retaliation protections.
Appendix A to Part 165—Guidance With Respect to the Protection of Whistleblowers Against Retaliation
Appendix B to Part 165—Form TCR and Form WP-APP

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2, 5, 9, 12a(5), 13a, 13a-1, 13b, and 26.

# Source:
76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 165.1
General.
Section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act, entitled “Commodity Whistleblower Incentives and Protection,” requires the Commission to pay awards, subject to certain limitations and conditions, to whistleblowers who voluntarily provide the Commission with original information about violations of the Commodity Exchange Act. This part 165 describes the whistleblower program that the Commission intends to establish to implement the provisions of Section 23, and explains the procedures the whistleblower will need to follow in order to be eligible for an award. Whistleblowers should read these procedures carefully, because the failure to take certain required steps within the time frames described in this part may result in disqualification from receiving an award. Unless expressly provided for in this part, no person is authorized to make any offer or promise, or otherwise to bind the Commission with respect to the payment of any award or the amount thereof.
§ 165.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Action.
The term “action” generally means a single captioned judicial or administrative proceeding. Notwithstanding the foregoing:
(1) For purposes of making an award under § 165.7, the Commission will treat as a Commission action two or more administrative or judicial proceedings brought by the Commission if these proceedings arise out of the same nucleus of operative facts; or
(2) For purposes of determining the payment on an award under § 165.14, the Commission will deem as part of the Commission action upon which the
award was based any subsequent Commission proceeding that, individually, results in a monetary sanction of $1,000,000 or less, and that arises out of the same nucleus of operative facts.
(b)
Aggregate amount.
The phrase “aggregate amount” means the total amount of an award granted to one or more whistleblowers pursuant to § 165.8.
(c)
Analysis.
The term “analysis” means the whistleblower's examination and evaluation of information that may be generally available, but which reveals information that is not generally known or available to the public.
(d)
Collected by the Commission.
The phrase “collected by the Commission” refers to any funds received, and confirmed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, in satisfaction of part or all of a civil monetary penalty, disgorgement obligation, or fine owed to the Commission.
(e)
Covered judicial or administrative action.
The phrase “covered judicial or administrative action” means any judicial or administrative action brought by the Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act whose successful resolution results in monetary sanctions exceeding $1,000,000.
(f)
Fund.
The term “Fund” means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Customer Protection Fund.
(g)
Independent knowledge.
The phrase “independent knowledge” means factual information in the whistleblower's possession that is not generally known or available to the public. The whistleblower may gain independent knowledge from the whistleblower's experiences, communications and observations in the whistleblower's personal business or social interactions. The Commission will not consider the whistleblower's information to be derived from the whistleblower's independent knowledge if the whistleblower obtained the information:
(1) From sources generally available to the public such as corporate filings and the media, including the Internet;
(2) Through a communication that was subject to the attorney-client privilege, unless the disclosure is otherwise permitted by the applicable federal or state attorney conduct rules;
(3) In connection with the legal representation of a client on whose behalf the whistleblower, or the whistleblower's employer or firm, have been providing services, and the whistleblower seek to use the information to make a whistleblower submission for the whistleblower's own benefit, unless disclosure is authorized by the applicable federal or state attorney conduct rules;
(4) Because the whistleblower was an officer, director, trustee, or partner of an entity and another person informed the whistleblower of allegations of misconduct, or the whistleblower learned the information in connection with the entity's processes for identifying, reporting, and addressing possible violations of law;
(5) Because the whistleblower was an employee whose principal duties involved compliance or internal audit responsibilities; or
(6) By a means or in a manner that is determined by a United States court to violate applicable Federal or state criminal law.
(7)
Exceptions.
Paragraphs (g)(4) and (5) of this section shall not apply if:
(i) The whistleblower has a reasonable basis to believe that disclosure of the information to the Commission is necessary to prevent the relevant entity from engaging in conduct that is likely to cause substantial injury to the financial interest or property of the entity or investors;
(ii) The whistleblower has a reasonable basis to believe that the relevant entity is engaging in conduct that will impede an investigation of the misconduct; or
(iii) At least 120 days have elapsed since the whistleblower provided the information to the relevant entity's audit committee, chief legal officer, chief compliance officer (or their equivalents), or the whistleblower's supervisor, or since the whistleblower received the information, if the whistleblower received it under circumstances indicating that the entity's audit committee, chief legal officer, chief compliance officer (or their equivalents), or the whistleblower's supervisor was already aware of the information.
(h)
Independent analysis.
The phrase “independent analysis” means the
whistleblower's own analysis, whether done alone or in combination with others.
(i)
Information that led to successful enforcement.
The Commission will consider that the whistleblower provided original information that led to the successful enforcement of a judicial or administrative action, or related action, in the following circumstances:
(1) The whistleblower gave the Commission original information that was sufficiently specific, credible, and timely to cause the Commission staff to commence an examination, open an investigation, reopen an investigation that the Commission had closed, or to inquire concerning different conduct as part of a current examination or investigation, and the Commission brought a successful judicial or administrative action based in whole or in part on conduct that was the subject of the whistleblower's original information; or
(2) The whistleblower gave the Commission original information about conduct that was already under examination or investigation by the Commission, the Congress, any other authority of the federal government, a state Attorney General or securities regulatory authority, any registered entity, registered futures association, or self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)), foreign futures authority, or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (except in cases where the whistleblower was an original source of this information as defined in paragraph (l) of this section), and the whistleblower's submission significantly contributed to the success of the action.
(3) The whistleblower reported original information through an entity's internal whistleblower, legal, or compliance procedures for reporting allegations of possible violations of law before or at the same time the whistleblower reported them to the Commission; the entity later provided the whistleblower's information to the Commission, or provided results of an audit or investigation initiated in whole or in part in response to information the whistleblower reported to the entity; and the information the entity provided to the Commission satisfies either paragraph (i)(1) or (2) of this section. Under this paragraph (i)(3), the whistleblower must also submit the same information to the Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 165.3 within 180 days of providing it to the entity.
(j)
Monetary sanctions.
The phrase “monetary sanctions,” when used with respect to any judicial or administrative action, or related action, means—
(1) Any monies, including penalties, disgorgement, restitution, and interest ordered to be paid; and
(2) Any monies deposited into a disgorgement fund or other fund pursuant to section 308(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7246(b)) as a result of such action or any settlement of such action.
(k)
Original information.
The phrase “original information” means information that—
(1) Is derived from the independent knowledge or independent analysis of a whistleblower;
(2) Is not already known to the Commission from any other source, unless the whistleblower is the original source of the information;
(3) Is not exclusively derived from an allegation made in a judicial or administrative hearing, in a governmental report, hearing, audit, or investigation, or from the news media, unless the whistleblower is a source of the information; and
(4) Is submitted to the Commission for the first time after July 21, 2010 (the date of enactment of the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010).
(5) Original information shall not lose its status as original information solely because the whistleblower submitted such information prior to October 24, 2011, provided such information was submitted after July 21, 2010, the date of enactment of the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010. In order to be eligible for an award, a whistleblower who submits original information to the Commission after July 21, 2010, but prior to October 24, 2011, must comply with the procedure set forth in § 165.3(d).
(l)
Original source.
The whistleblower must satisfy the whistleblower's status
as the original source of information to the Commission's satisfaction.
(1)
Information obtained from another source.
The Commission will consider the whistleblower to be an “original source” of the same information that the Commission obtains from another source if the information the whistleblower provide satisfies the definition of original information and the other source obtained the information from the whistleblower or the whistleblower's representative.
(i) In order to be considered an original source of information that the Commission receives from Congress, any other federal, state or local authority, a foreign futures authority, any registered entity, registered futures association, or any self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)), the whistleblower must have voluntarily given such authorities the information within the meaning of this part. In determining whether the whistleblower is the original source of information, the Commission may seek assistance and confirmation from one of the other entities or authorities described in this paragraph (l)(1)(i).
(ii) In the event that the whistleblower claims to be the original source of information that an authority or another entity, other than as set forth in paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, provided to the Commission, the Commission may seek assistance and confirmation from such authority or other entity.
(2)
Information first provided to another authority or person.
If the whistleblower provides information to Congress, any other federal, state, or local authority, a foreign futures authority, a registered entity, a registered futures association, a self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)), or to any of the persons described in paragraphs (g)(4) and (5) of this section, and the whistleblower, within 180 days, makes a submission to the Commission pursuant to § 165.3, as the whistleblower must do in order for the whistleblower to be eligible to be considered for an award, then, for purposes of evaluating the whistleblower's claim to an award under § 165.7, the Commission will consider that the whistleblower provided original information as of the date of the whistleblower's original disclosure, report, or submission to one of these other authorities or persons. The whistleblower must establish the whistleblower's status as the original source of such information, as well as the effective date of any prior disclosure, report, or submission, to the Commission's satisfaction. The Commission may seek assistance and confirmation from the other authority or person in making this determination.
(3)
Information already known by the Commission.
If the Commission already knows some information about a matter from other sources at the time the whistleblower makes the whistleblower's submission, and the whistleblower is not an original source of that information, as described above, the Commission will consider the whistleblower an “original source” of any information the whistleblower separately provides that is original information that materially adds to the information that the Commission already possesses.
(m)
Related action.
The phrase “related action,” when used with respect to any judicial or administrative action brought by the Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act, means any judicial or administrative action brought by an entity listed in § 165.11(a) that is based upon the original information voluntarily submitted by a whistleblower to the Commission pursuant to § 165.3 that led to the successful resolution of the Commission action.
(n)
Successful resolution.
The phrase “successful resolution,” when used with respect to any judicial or administrative action brought by the Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act, includes any settlement of such action or final judgment in favor of the Commission. It shall also have the same meaning as “successful enforcement.”
(o)
Voluntary submission or voluntarily submitted.
(1) The phrase “voluntary submission” or “voluntarily submitted” within the context of submission of original information to the
Commission under this part, shall mean the provision of information made prior to any request from the Commission, Congress, any other federal or state authority, the Department of Justice, a registered entity, a registered futures association, or a self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)) to the whistleblower or anyone representing the whistleblower (such as an attorney) about a matter to which the information in the whistleblower's submission is relevant. If the Commission or any of these other authorities makes a request, inquiry, or demand to the whistleblower or the whistleblower's representative first, the whistleblower's submission will not be considered voluntary, and the whistleblower will not be eligible for an award, even if the whistleblower's response is not compelled by subpoena or other applicable law. For purposes of this paragraph (o), the whistleblower will be considered to have received a request, inquiry or demand if documents or information from the whistleblower is within the scope of a request, inquiry, or demand that the whistleblower's employer receives, unless, after receiving the documents or information from the whistleblower, the whistleblower's employer fails to provide the whistleblower's documents or information to the requesting authority in a timely manner.
(2) In addition, the whistleblower's submission will not be considered voluntary if the whistleblower is under a pre-existing legal or contractual duty to report the violations that are the subject of the whistleblower's original information to the Commission, Congress, any other federal or state authority, the Department of Justice, a registered entity, a registered futures association, or a self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)), or a duty that arises out of a judicial or administrative order.
(p)
Whistleblower(s).
(1) The term “whistleblower” or “whistleblowers” means any individual, or two (2) or more individuals acting jointly, who provides information relating to a potential violation of the Commodity Exchange Act to the Commission, in the manner established by § 165.3. A company or another entity is not eligible to be a whistleblower.
(2)
Prohibition against retaliation.
The anti-retaliation protections under Section 23(h) of the Commodity Exchange Act apply whether or not the whistleblower satisfies the requirements, procedures and conditions to qualify for an award. For purposes of the anti-retaliation protections afforded by Section 23(h)(1)(A)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act, the whistleblower is a whistleblower if:
(i) The whistleblower possess a reasonable belief that the information the whistleblower is providing relates to a possible violation of the CEA, or the rules or regulations thereunder, that has occurred, is ongoing, or is about to occur; and
(ii) The whistleblower provides that information in a manner described in § 165.3.
[76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24497, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.3
Procedures for submitting original information.
(a) A whistleblower will need to submit the whistleblower's information to the Commission. A whistleblower may submit the whistleblower's information:
(1) By completing and submitting a Form TCR online and submitting it electronically through the Commission's Web site at
http://www.cftc.gov,
or the Commission's Whistleblower Program Web site at
www.whistleblower.gov;
or
(2) By completing the Form TCR and mailing or faxing the form to the Whistleblower Office at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters.
(b) Further, to be eligible for an award, the whistleblower must declare under penalty of perjury at the time the whistleblower submits the whistleblower's information pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section that the whistleblower's information is true and correct to the best of the whistleblower's knowledge and belief.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, if the whistleblower submitted the whistleblower's original information to the Commission anonymously, then the whistleblower's identity must be disclosed to the Commission and verified in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission consistent with the procedure set forth in § 165.7(c) prior to Commission's payment of any award.
(d) If the whistleblower submitted original information in writing to the Commission after July 21, 2010 (the date of enactment of the Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010) but before the effective date of these rules, the whistleblower will be eligible for an award only in the event that the whistleblower provided the original information to the Commission in a format or manner other than that described in paragraph (a) of this section, the whistleblower submits a completed Form TCR within 120 days of the effective date of these rules and otherwise follows the procedures set forth above in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24497, May 30, 2017; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 165.4
Confidentiality.
(a)
In general.
Section 23(h)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act requires that the Commission not disclose information that could reasonably be expected to reveal the identity of a whistleblower, except that the Commission may disclose such information in the following circumstances, in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a):
(1) When disclosure is required to a defendant or respondent in connection with a public proceeding that the Commission institutes or in another public proceeding that is filed by an authority to which the Commission provides the information, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or
(2) When the Commission determines that it is necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Commodity Exchange Act and to protect customers, it may provide whistleblower information, without the loss of its status as confidential whistleblower information in the hands of the Commission, to: The Department of Justice; an appropriate department or agency of the Federal Government, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction; a registered entity, registered futures association, or a self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)); a State attorney general in connection with a criminal investigation; any appropriate State department or agency, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction; or a foreign futures authority; and, as set forth in section 23(h)(2)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act, each such entity is required to maintain the information as confidential in accordance with the requirements of section 23(h)(2)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
(3) The Commission may make disclosures in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).
(b)
Anonymous whistleblowers.
A whistleblower may anonymously submit information to the Commission, however, the whistleblower must follow the procedures in § 165.3(c) for submitting original information anonymously. Such whistleblower who anonymously submits information to the Commission must also follow the procedures in § 165.7(c) in submitting to the Commission an application for a whistleblower award.
[76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24497, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.5
Requirements for consideration of an award.
(a) Subject to the eligibility requirements described in this part, the Commission will pay an award to one or more whistleblowers who:
(1) Provide a voluntary submission to the Commission;
(2) That contains original information; and
(3) That leads to the successful resolution of a covered judicial or administrative action or successful enforcement of a Related Action or both; and
(b) In order to be eligible, the whistleblower must:
(1) Have voluntarily provided the Commission original information in the form and manner that the Commission requires in § 165.3;
(2) Have submitted a claim in response to a Notice of Covered Action or a final judgment in a Related Action or both;
(3) Provide the Commission, upon its staff's request, certain additional information, including:
(i) Explanations and other assistance, in the manner and form that staff may request, in order that the staff may evaluate the use of the information submitted related to the whistleblower's application for an award;
(ii) All additional information in the whistleblower's possession that is related to the subject matter of the whistleblower's submission related to the whistleblower's application for an award; and
(iii) Testimony or other evidence acceptable to the staff relating to the whistleblower's eligibility for an award; and
(4) If requested by the Whistleblower Office, enter into a confidentiality agreement in a form acceptable to the Whistleblower Office, including a provision that a violation of the confidentiality agreement may lead to the whistleblower's ineligibility to receive an award.
(c) The Commission may, in its sole discretion, waive any procedural requirements based upon a showing of extraordinary circumstances.
[82 FR 24498, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.6
Whistleblowers ineligible for an award.
(a) No award under § 165.7 shall be made:
(1) To any whistleblower who is, or was at the time the whistleblower acquired the original information submitted to the Commission, a member, officer, or employee of: the Commission; the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision; the National Credit Union Administration Board; the Securities and Exchange Commission; the Department of Justice; a registered entity; a registered futures association; a self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)); or a law enforcement organization;
(2) To any whistleblower who is convicted of a criminal violation related to the judicial or administrative action for which the whistleblower otherwise could receive an award under § 165.7;
(3) To any whistleblower who submits information to the Commission that is based on the facts underlying the covered judicial or administrative action submitted previously by another whistleblower;
(4) To any whistleblower who acquired the information the whistleblower gave the Commission from any of the individuals described in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3) or (6) of this section;
(5) To any whistleblower who, in the whistleblower's submission, the whistleblower's other dealings with the Commission, or the whistleblower's dealings with another authority in connection with a related action, knowingly and willfully makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation, or uses any false writing or document, knowing that it contains any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, or omitted any material fact, where, in the absence of such fact, other statements or representations made by the whistleblower would be misleading;
(6) To any whistleblower who acquired the original information reported to the Commission as a result of the whistleblower's role as a member, officer or employee of either a foreign regulatory authority or law enforcement organization;
(7) To any whistleblower who is, or was at the time the whistleblower acquired the original information submitted to the Commission, a member, officer, or employee of a foreign regulatory authority or law enforcement organization; or
(8) To any whistleblower who acquired the original information the whistleblower gave the Commission from any other person with the intent to evade any provision of these rules.
(b) Notwithstanding a whistleblower's ineligibility for an award for any reason set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the whistleblower will remain eligible for the anti-retaliation
protections set forth in Section 23(h)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
[76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24498, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.7
Procedures for award applications in Commission actions and related actions, and Commission award determinations.
(a) Whenever a Commission judicial or administrative action results in monetary sanctions totaling more than $1,000,000 (
i.e.,
a covered judicial or administrative action) the Commission will publish on the Commission's Web site a “Notice of Covered Action.” Such Notice of Covered Action will be published subsequent to the entry of a final judgment or order that alone, or collectively with other judgments or orders previously entered in the Commission covered administrative or judicial action, exceeds $1,000,000 in monetary sanctions. The Commission will not contact whistleblower claimants directly as to Notices of Covered Actions; prospective claimants should monitor the Commission Web site for such Notices. A whistleblower claimant will have 90 days from the date of the Notice of Covered Action to file a claim for an award based on that action, or the claim will be barred.
(b)(1) To file a claim for a whistleblower award, the whistleblower must file Form WB-APP, Application for Award for Original Information Provided Pursuant to Section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act. The whistleblower must sign this form as the claimant and submit it by mail or fax to the Whistleblower Office at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, Fax (202) 418-5975, or by completing and submitting the Form WB-APP online and submitting it electronically through the Commission's Web site at
https://www.cftc.gov
or the Commission's Whistleblower Program Web site at
https://www.whistleblower.gov.
(2) The Form WB-APP, including any attachments, must be received by the Commission within 90 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Covered Action or 90 calendar days following the date of a final judgment in a Related Action (or if the final judgment in a Related Action was issued prior to the action meeting the definition of Related Action, within 90 calendar days following the date the action satisfied the definition of Related Action, except in the circumstances described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section). One Form WB-APP may be filed in response to both a Notice of Covered Action and final judgment in a Related Action if the relevant time periods are applicable.
(3) If a covered judicial or administrative action and Related Action have different final judgment dates or if there is no covered judicial or administrative action connected to a Related Action, a claimant, who wishes to file a claim for an award in both a covered judicial or administrative action and a Related Action, or in a Related Action that does not have a connected covered judicial or administrative action, must follow one of the following procedures depending on that claimant's particular situation.
(i) If a final judgment imposing monetary sanctions in a Related Action has not been entered at the time the claimant submits a claim for an award in connection with a covered judicial or administrative action, the claimant must submit the claim for the Related Action on Form WB-APP within ninety (90) calendar days following the date of issuance of a final judgment in the Related Action.
(ii) If a final judgment in a Related Action has been entered and a Notice of Covered Action for a related covered judicial or administrative action has not been published, a claimant for an award in both the covered judicial or administrative action and Related Action may submit the claims for both the Related Action and the covered judicial or administrative action within ninety (90) days of the date of the Notice of Covered Action. The claims may be submitted on the same Form WB-APP.
(iii) If there is a final judgment in a Related Action that relates to a judicial or administrative action brought by the Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act that is not a covered judicial or administrative action, and therefore there is no Notice of Covered Action, a claimant for an award in connection with the Related Action
must submit the claim in connection with the Related Action on Form WB-APP within ninety (90) calendar days following either:
(A) The date of issuance of a final judgment in the Related Action, if that date is after the date of issuance of the final judgment in the related Commission judicial or administrative action; or
(B) The date of issuance of the final judgment in the related Commission judicial or administrative action,
i.e.,
the date the Related Action becomes a Related Action, if the date of issuance of the final judgment in the Related Action precedes the final judgment in the related Commission judicial or administrative action.
(c) If the whistleblower provided the whistleblower's original information to the Commission anonymously pursuant to §§ 165.3 and 165.4 and:
(1) The whistleblower is making the whistleblower's claim for a whistleblower award on a disclosed basis, the whistleblower must disclose the whistleblower's identity on the Form WB-APP. The whistleblower's identity must be verified in a form and manner that is acceptable to the Commission prior to the payment of any award; or
(2) The whistleblower is making the whistleblower's claim for a whistleblower award on an anonymous basis, the whistleblower must be represented by counsel. The whistleblower must provide the whistleblower's counsel with a completed Form WB-APP that is signed by the whistleblower by no later than the date upon which the whistleblower's counsel submits to the Commission a copy of the Form WB-APP that does not disclose the whistleblower's identity and is signed solely by the whistleblower's counsel. In addition, the whistleblower's counsel must retain the signed original of the whistleblower's Form WB-APP in counsel's records. Upon request of the Commission staff, whistleblower's counsel must produce to the Commission the whistleblower's signed original WB-APP and the whistleblower's identity must be verified in a form and manner that is acceptable to the Commission prior to the payment of any award.
(d) A claimant may withdraw a Form WB-APP by submitting a written request to the Whistleblower Office at any time during the review process.
(e)(1) The Whistleblower Office may issue a Proposed Final Disposition for award applications that do not relate to a Notice of Covered Action, a final judgment in a Related Action, or a previously filed Form TCR without presentation of the award claim to the staff designated by the Director of the Division of Enforcement under § 165.15(a)(2) (“Claims Review Staff”). In such instances, the Whistleblower Office will inform the award claimant in writing that the claim does not relate to a Notice of Covered Action, a final judgment in a Related Action, or a previously filed Form TCR and will be rejected unless the claimant provides additional information. The claimant will have 30 days from the date of the written notice to respond and to correct the identified deficiencies. If the claimant does not respond in 30 days or if the response does not include information showing that the WB-APP relates to a Notice of Covered Action, a final judgment in a Related Action, or a previously filed Form TCR the Whistleblower Office will issue a Proposed Final Disposition. The claimant's failure to submit a timely response to the written notice from the Whistleblower Office will constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies, and the claimant will be prohibited from pursuing an appeal under § 165.13.
(2) The Whistleblower Office will notify the Claims Review Staff of any Proposed Final Disposition under this paragraph (e). Within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter, any member of the Claims Review Staff may request that the Proposed Final Disposition be reviewed by the Claims Review Staff. If no member of the Claims Review Staff requests such a review within the 30-day period, then the Proposed Final Disposition will become the Final Order of the Commission. In the event that a member of the Claims Review Staff requests a review, the Claims Review Staff will review the record that the Whistleblower Office relied upon in making its determination and either remand to the Whistleblower Office for further action or issue a Final Order of the Commission, which could consist of the Proposed Final Disposition.
(f)(1) In connection with each individual covered judicial or administrative action or final judgment in a Related Action, for which an award application is submitted, once the time for filing any appeals of the covered judicial or administrative action or the final judgment in the Related Action has expired (or, where an appeal is filed of the covered judicial or administrative action, or the final judgment in a Related Action, as applicable, and concluded), the Claims Review Staff designated under § 165.15(a)(2) will evaluate all timely whistleblower award claims submitted on Form WB-APP in response to a Notice of Covered Action, referenced in paragraph (a) of this section, or final judgment in a Related Action in accordance with the criteria set forth in this part.
(2) The Whistleblower Office may require that the claimant provide additional information relating to the claimant's eligibility for an award or satisfaction of any of the conditions for an award, as set forth in § 165.5(b)(2). The Whistleblower Office may also request additional information from the claimant in connection with the claim for an award in a Related Action to demonstrate that the claimant directly (or through the Commission) voluntarily provided the governmental agency, regulatory authority or self-regulatory organization the original information that led to the Commission's successful covered action, and that the information provided by the claimant led to the successful enforcement of the Related Action. The Whistleblower Office may also, in its discretion, seek assistance and confirmation from the other agency in making this determination.
(g)(1) Following Claims Review Staff evaluation, the Claims Review Staff will issue a Preliminary Determination setting forth a preliminary assessment as to whether the claim should be granted or denied and, if granted, setting forth the proposed award percentage amount. The Whistleblower Office will send a copy of the Preliminary Determination to the claimant.
(2) The claimant may contest the Preliminary Determination made by the Claims Review Staff by submitting a written response to the Whistleblower Office setting forth the grounds for the claimant's objection to either the denial of an award or the proposed amount of an award. The response must be in the form and manner that the Whistleblower Office shall require. The claimant may also include documentation or other evidentiary support for the grounds advanced in the claimant's response. The claimant may also request a meeting with the Whistleblower Office within the timeframes provided in this paragraph (g), however such meetings are not required, and the Whistleblower Office may in its sole discretion deny the request.
(i) Before determining whether to contest a Preliminary Determination, the claimant may, within thirty (30) days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request that the Whistleblower Office make available for the claimant's review the materials from among those set forth in § 165.10 that formed the basis of the Claims Review Staff's Preliminary Determination.
(ii) If the claimant decides to contest the Preliminary Determination, the claimant must submit the claimant's written response and supporting materials setting forth the grounds for the claimant's objection to either the denial of an award or the proposed amount of an award within sixty (60) calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, or if a request to review materials used to make a Preliminary Determination is made pursuant to paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, then within sixty (60) calendar days of the Whistleblower Office making those materials available for the claimant's review. The claimant also may request a meeting with the Whistleblower Office within those same sixty (60) calendar days. However, such meetings are not required and the Whistleblower Office may in its sole discretion decline the request.
(h) If the claimant fails to submit a timely response pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, then the Preliminary Determination will become the Final Order of the Commission (except where the Preliminary Determination recommended an award, in which case the Preliminary Determination will be deemed a Proposed Final Determination for purposes of paragraph (j) of
this section). The claimant's failure to submit a timely response contesting a Preliminary Determination will constitute a failure to exhaust administrative remedies, and the claimant will be prohibited from pursuing an appeal under § 165.13.
(i) If the claimant submits a timely response under paragraph (g) of this section, then the Claims Review Staff will consider the issues and grounds advanced in the claimant's response, along with any supporting documentation the claimant provided, and will make its Proposed Final Determination.
(j) The Whistleblower Office will notify the Commission of each Proposed Final Determination. Within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter, any Commissioner may request that the Proposed Final Determination be reviewed by the Commission. If no Commissioner requests such a review within the 30-day period, then the Proposed Final Determination will become the Final Order of the Commission. In the event a Commissioner requests a review, the Commission will review the record that the staff relied upon in making its determinations, including the claimant's submissions to the Whistleblower Office, and issue its Final Order.
(k) A Preliminary Determination, Proposed Final Disposition, or a Proposed Final Determination may be issued only after a review for legal sufficiency by the Office of the General Counsel.
(l) The Office of the Secretariat will serve the claimant with the Final Order of the Commission.
[76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24498, May 30, 2017; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 165.8
Amount of award.
If all of the conditions are met for a whistleblower award in connection with a covered judicial or administrative action or a related action, the Commission will then decide the amount of the award pursuant to the procedure set forth in § 165.7.
(a) Whistleblower awards shall be in an aggregate amount equal to—
(1) Not less than 10 percent, in total, of what has been collected of the monetary sanctions imposed in the covered judicial or administrative action or related actions; and
(2) Not more than 30 percent, in total, of what has been collected of the monetary sanctions imposed in the covered judicial or administrative action or related actions.
(b) If the Commission makes awards to more than one whistleblower in connection with the same action or related action, the Commission will determine an individual percentage award for each whistleblower, but in no event will the total amount awarded to all whistleblowers as a group be less than 10 percent or greater than 30 percent of the amount the Commission or the other authorities collect.
§ 165.9
Criteria for determining amount of award.
The determination of the amount of an award shall be in the discretion of the Commission. This discretion shall be exercised as prescribed by § 165.7.
(a) In determining the amount of an award, the Commission shall take into consideration—
(1) The significance of the information provided by the whistleblower to the success of the covered judicial or administrative action or related action;
(2) The degree of assistance provided by the whistleblower and any legal representative of the whistleblower in a covered judicial or administrative action or related action;
(3) The programmatic interest of the Commission in deterring violations of the Commodity Exchange Act by making awards to whistleblowers who provide information that leads to the successful enforcement of such laws;
(4) Whether the award otherwise enhances the Commission's ability to enforce the Commodity Exchange Act, protect customers, and encourage the submission of high quality information from whistleblowers; and
(5) Potential adverse incentives from oversize awards.
(b)
Factors that may increase the amount of a whistleblower's award.
In determining whether to increase the amount of an award, the Commission will consider the following factors, which are not listed in order of importance.
(1)
Significance of the information provided by the whistleblower.
The Commission will assess the significance of the information provided by a whistleblower to the success of the Commission action or related action. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) The nature of the information provided by the whistleblower and how it related to the successful enforcement action, including whether the reliability and completeness of the information provided to the Commission by the whistleblower resulted in the conservation of Commission resources; and
(ii) The degree to which the information provided by the whistleblower supported one or more successful claims brought in the Commission action or related action.
(2)
Assistance provided by the whistleblower.
The Commission will assess the degree of assistance provided by the whistleblower and any legal representative of the whistleblower in the Commission action or related action. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) Whether the whistleblower provided ongoing, extensive, and timely cooperation and assistance by, for example, helping to explain complex transactions, interpreting key evidence, or identifying new and productive lines of inquiry;
(ii) The timeliness of the whistleblower's initial report to the Commission or to an internal compliance or reporting system of business organizations committing, or impacted by, the violations of the Commodity Exchange Act, where appropriate;
(iii) The resources conserved as a result of the whistleblower's assistance;
(iv) Whether the whistleblower appropriately encouraged or authorized others to assist the staff of the Commission who might otherwise not have participated in the investigation or related action;
(v) The efforts undertaken by the whistleblower to remediate the harm caused by the violations of the Commodity Exchange Act, including assisting the authorities in the recovery of the fruits and instrumentalities of the violations; and
(vi) Any unique hardships experienced by the whistleblower as a result of his or her reporting and assisting in the enforcement action.
(3)
Law enforcement interest.
The Commission will assess its programmatic interest in deterring violations of the Commodity Exchange Act by making awards to whistleblowers who provide information that leads to the successful enforcement of such laws. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) The degree to which an award enhances the Commission's ability to enforce the commodity laws;
(ii) The degree to which an award encourages the submission of high quality information from whistleblowers by appropriately rewarding whistleblower submissions of significant information and assistance, even in cases where the monetary sanctions available for collection are limited or potential monetary sanctions were reduced or eliminated by the Commission because an entity self-reported a commodities violation following the whistleblower's related internal disclosure, report, or submission;
(iii) Whether the subject matter of the action is a Commission priority, whether the reported misconduct involves regulated entities or fiduciaries, whether the whistleblower exposed an industry-wide practice, the type and severity of the commodity violations, the age and duration of misconduct, the number of violations, and the isolated, repetitive, or ongoing nature of the violations;
(iv) The dangers to market participants or others presented by the underlying violations involved in the enforcement action, including the amount of harm or potential harm caused by the underlying violations, the type of harm resulting from or threatened by the underlying violations, and the number of individuals or entities harmed; and
(v) The degree, reliability and effectiveness of the whistleblower's assistance, including the consideration of the whistleblower's complete, timely truthful assistance to the Commission and criminal authorities.
(4)
Participation in internal compliance systems.
The Commission will assess
whether, and the extent to which, the whistleblower and any legal representative of the whistleblower participated in internal compliance systems. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) Whether, and the extent to which, a whistleblower reported the possible Commodity Exchange Act violations through internal whistleblower, legal or compliance procedures before, or at the same time as, reporting them to the Commission; and
(ii) Whether, and the extent to which, a whistleblower assisted any internal investigation or inquiry concerning the reported Commodity Exchange Act violations.
(c)
Factors that may decrease the amount of a whistleblower's award.
In determining whether to decrease the amount of an award, the Commission will consider the following factors, which are not listed in order of importance.
(1)
Culpability.
The Commission will assess the culpability or involvement of the whistleblower in matters associated with the Commission's action or related actions. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) The whistleblower's role in the Commodity Exchange Act violations;
(ii) The whistleblower's education, training, experience, and position of responsibility at the time the violations occurred;
(iii) Whether the whistleblower acted with scienter, both generally and in relation to others who participated in the violations;
(iv) Whether the whistleblower financially benefitted from the violations;
(v) Whether the whistleblower is a recidivist;
(vi) The egregiousness of any wrongdoing committed by the whistleblower; and
(vii) Whether the whistleblower knowingly interfered with the Commission's investigation of the violations or related enforcement actions.
(2)
Unreasonable reporting delay.
The Commission will assess whether the whistleblower unreasonably delayed reporting the Commodity Exchange Act violations. In considering this factor, the Commission may take into account, among other things:
(i) Whether the whistleblower was aware of the relevant facts but failed to take reasonable steps to report or prevent the violations from occurring or continuing;
(ii) Whether the whistleblower was aware of the relevant facts but only reported them after learning about a related inquiry, investigation, or enforcement action; and
(iii) Whether there was a legitimate reason for the whistleblower to delay reporting the violations.
(3)
Interference with internal compliance and reporting systems.
The Commission will assess, in cases where the whistleblower interacted with his or her entity's internal compliance or reporting system, whether the whistleblower undermined the integrity of such system. In considering this factor, the Commission will take into account whether there is evidence provided to the Commission that the whistleblower knowingly:
(i) Interfered with an entity's established legal, compliance, or audit procedures to prevent or delay detection of the reported Commodity Exchange Act violation;
(ii) Made any material false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations that hindered an entity's efforts to detect, investigate, or remediate the reported Commodity Exchange Act violations; or
(iii) Provided any false writing or document knowing the writing or document contained any false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or entries that hindered an entity's efforts to detect, investigate, or remediate the reported Commodity Exchange Act violations.
(d) The Commission shall not take into consideration the balance of the Fund in determining the amount of an award.
[76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24500, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.10
Contents of record for award determination.
(a) The following items constitute the record upon which the award determination under § 165.7 shall be made:
(1) The whistleblower's Form TCR, “Tip, Complaint or Referral,” including related attachments, and other documentation provided by the whistleblower to the Commission;
(2) The whistleblower's Form WB-APP, “Application for Award for Original Information Provided Pursuant to Section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act,” and related attachments;
(3) The complaint, notice of hearing, answers and any amendments thereto;
(4) The final judgment, consent order, or administrative speaking order;
(5) The transcript of the related administrative hearing or civil injunctive proceeding, including any exhibits entered at the hearing or proceeding;
(6) Any other documents that appear on the docket of the proceeding;
(7) Sworn declarations (including attachments) from the Commission's Division of Enforcement staff regarding any matters relevant to the award determination;
(8) With respect to an award claim involving a Related Action, any statements or other information that an entity provides or identifies in connection with an award determination, provided the entity has authorized the Commission to share the information with the claimant. (Neither the Commission nor the Claims Review Staff may rely upon information that the entity has not authorized the Commission to share with the applicant); and
(9) Any other documents or materials including sworn declarations from third-parties that are received or obtained by the Whistleblower Office to assist the Commission resolve the applicant's award application, including information related to the claimant's eligibility. (Neither the Commission nor the Claims Review Staff may rely upon information that a third party has not authorized the Commission to share with the claimant).
(b) The rules in this part do not entitle a claimant to obtain from the Commission any materials (including any pre-decisional or internal deliberative process materials that are prepared to assist the Commission or Claims Review Staff in deciding the claim) other than those listed in paragraph (a) of this section. The Whistleblower Office may make redactions as necessary to comply with any statutory restrictions, to protect the Commission's law enforcement and regulatory functions, and to comply with requests for confidential treatment from other law enforcement and regulatory authorities.
[76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24500, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.11
Awards based upon related actions.
(a) Provided that a whistleblower or whistleblowers comply with the requirements in §§ 165.3, 165.5 and 165.7, and pursuant to § 165.8, the Commission may grant an award based on the amount of monetary sanctions collected in a “Related Action” or “Related Actions”, where:
(1) A “Related Action” is a judicial or administrative action that is brought by:
(i) The Department of Justice;
(ii) An appropriate department or agency of the Federal Government, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction;
(iii) A registered entity, registered futures association, or self-regulatory organization (as defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a));
(iv) A State criminal or appropriate civil agency, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction; or
(v) A foreign futures authority; and
(2) The “Related Action” is based on the original information that the whistleblower voluntarily submitted to the Commission and led to a successful resolution of the Commission judicial or administrative action.
(b) The Commission will not make an award to a claimant for a final judgment in a Related Action if the claimant has already been granted an award by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for that same action pursuant to its whistleblower award program under section 21F of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
). If the SEC has previously denied
an award to the claimant for a judgment in a Related Action, the whistleblower will be precluded from relitigating any issues before the Commission that the SEC resolved against the claimant as part of the award denial.
[82 FR 24500, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.12
Payment of awards from the Fund, financing of customer education initiatives, and deposits and credits to the Fund.
(a) The Commission shall pay awards to whistleblowers from the Fund.
(b) The Commission shall deposit into or credit to the Fund:
(1) Any monetary sanctions collected by the Commission in any covered judicial or administrative action that is not otherwise distributed, or ordered to be distributed, to victims of a violation of the Commodity Exchange Act underlying such action, unless the balance of the Fund at the time the monetary sanctions are collected exceeds $100,000,000. In the event the Fund's value exceeds $100,000,000, any monetary sanctions collected by the Commission in a covered judicial or administrative action that is not otherwise distributed, or ordered to be distributed, to victims of violations of the Commodity Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder underlying such action, shall be deposited into the general fund of the U.S. Treasury.
(2) In the event that the amounts deposited into or credited to the Fund under paragraph (b)(1) of this section are not sufficient to satisfy an award made pursuant to § 165.7, then, pursuant to Section 23(g)(3)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act;
(i) An amount equal to the unsatisfied portion of the award;
(ii) Shall be deposited into or credited to the Fund;
(iii) From any monetary sanction collected by the Commission in any judicial or administrative action brought by the Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act, regardless of whether it qualifies as a “covered judicial or administrative action”;
provided,
however, that such judicial or administrative action is based on information provided by a whistleblower.
(c)
Office of Public Affairs.
The Commission shall undertake and maintain customer education initiatives through its Office of Customer Education and Outreach. The initiatives shall be designed to help customers protect themselves against fraud or other violations of the Commodity Exchange Act, or the rules or regulations thereunder. The Commission shall fund the initiatives and may utilize funds deposited into the Fund during any fiscal year in which the beginning (October 1) balance of the Fund is greater than $10,000,000. The Commission shall budget, on an annual basis, the amount used to finance customer education initiatives, taking into consideration the balance of the Fund.
[76 FR 53200, Aug. 25, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 24500, May 30, 2017; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 165.13
Appeals.
(a) Any Final Order of the Commission relating to a whistleblower award determination, including whether, to whom, or in what amount to make whistleblower awards, may be appealed to the appropriate court of appeals of the United States not more than 30 days after the Final Order of the Commission is issued, provided that administrative remedies have been exhausted.
(b) The record on appeal shall consist of:
(1) The Contents of Record for Award Determinations, as set forth in § 165.10. The record on appeal shall not include any pre-decisional or internal deliberative process materials that are prepared to assist the Commission or the Claims Review Staff in deciding the claim (including staff's draft Preliminary Determination or any Proposed Final Determination or staff's draft final determination); and
(2) The Preliminary Determination and the Final Order of the Commission, as set forth in § 165.7.
[82 FR 24500, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.14
Procedures applicable to the payment of awards.
(a) A recipient of a whistleblower award is entitled to payment on the award only to the extent that the monetary sanction upon which the award is based is collected in the Commission
judicial or administrative action or in a related action.
(b) Payment of a whistleblower award for a monetary sanction collected in a Commission action or related action shall be made within a reasonable time following the later of:
(1) The date on which the monetary sanction is collected; or
(2) The completion of the appeals process for all whistleblower award claims arising from:
(i) The Notice of Covered Action, in the case of any payment of an award for a monetary sanction collected in a covered judicial or administrative action; or
(ii) The related action, in the case of any payment of an award for a monetary sanction collected in a related action.
(c) If there are insufficient amounts available in the Fund to pay the entire amount of an award payment within a reasonable period of time from the time for payment specified by paragraph (b) of this section, then subject to the following terms, the balance of the payment shall be paid when amounts become available in the Fund, as follows:
(1) Where multiple whistleblowers are owed payments from the Fund based on awards that do not arise from the same Notice of Covered Action (or related action), priority in making these payments will be determined based upon the date that the Final Order of the Commission is made. If two or more of these Final Orders of the Commission are entered on the same date, then those whistleblowers owed payments will be paid on a pro rata basis until sufficient amounts become available in the Fund to pay their entire payments.
(2) Where multiple whistleblowers are owed payments from the Fund based on awards that arise from the same Notice of Covered Action (or related action), they will share the same payment priority and will be paid on a pro rata basis until sufficient amounts become available in the Fund to pay their entire payments.
§ 165.15
Administering the whistleblower program.
(a)
Specific authorities
—(1)
Payments, deposits, and credits.
The Executive Director is authorized to deposit into or credit collected monetary sanctions to the Fund, and to make payment of awards therefrom, with the concurrence of the General Counsel and the Director of the Division of Enforcement, or of their respective designees.
(2)
Designation of claims review staff.
The Claims Review Staff referenced in § 165.7 shall be composed of no fewer than three and no more than five staff members from any of the Commission's Offices or Divisions (except the Office of the General Counsel) who have not had direct involvement in the underlying enforcement action, as designated by the Director of the Division of Enforcement in consultation with the Executive Director. The Claims Review Staff will always include at least one staff member who does not work in the Division of Enforcement.
(3)
Disclosure of whistleblower identifying information.
The Director of the Division of Enforcement is authorized on behalf of the Commission to exercise its discretion to disclose whistleblower identifying information under § 165.4(a).
(b)
General authority to administer the program.
The Director of the Division of Enforcement shall have general authority to administer the whistleblower program except as otherwise provided under this part.
[82 FR 24501, May 30, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 165.16
No immunity.
The Commodity Whistleblower Incentives and Protections provisions set forth in Section 23(h) of Commodity Exchange Act and this part 165 do not provide individuals who provide information to the Commission with immunity from prosecution. The fact that an individual may become a whistleblower and assist in Commission investigations and enforcement actions does not preclude the Commission from bringing an action against the whistleblower based upon the whistleblower's own conduct in connection with violations of the Commodity Exchange Act and
the Commission's regulations. If such an action is determined to be appropriate, however, the Commission's Division of Enforcement will take the whistleblower's cooperation into consideration in accordance with its sanction recommendations to the Commission.
§ 165.17
Awards to whistleblowers who engage in culpable conduct.
In determining whether the required $1,000,000 threshold has been satisfied for purposes of making any award, the Commission will not take into account any monetary sanctions that the whistleblower is ordered to pay, or that is ordered against any entity whose liability is based primarily on conduct that the whistleblower principally directed, planned, or initiated. Similarly, if the Commission determines that a whistleblower is eligible for an award, any amounts that the whistleblower or such an entity pay in sanctions as a result of the action or related actions will not be included within the calculation of the amounts collected for purposes of making payments pursuant to § 165.14.
§ 165.18
Staff communications with whistleblowers from represented entities.
If the whistleblower is a whistleblower who is a director, officer, member, agent, or employee of an entity that has counsel, and the whistleblower has initiated communication with the Commission relating to a potential violation of the Commodity Exchange Act, the Commission's staff is authorized to communicate directly with the whistleblower regarding the subject of the whistleblower's communication without seeking the consent of the entity's counsel.
§ 165.19
Nonenforceability of certain provisions waiving rights and remedies or requiring arbitration of disputes.
(a)
Non-waiver.
The rights and remedies provided for in this part may not be waived by any agreement, policy, form, or condition of employment, including by a predispute arbitration agreement. No predispute arbitration agreement shall be valid or enforceable if the agreement requires arbitration of a dispute arising under this part.
(b)
Protected communications.
No person may take any action to impede an individual from communicating directly with the Commission's staff about a possible violation of the Commodity Exchange Act, including by enforcing, or threatening to enforce, a confidentiality agreement or predispute arbitration agreement with respect to such communications.
[82 FR 24501, May 30, 2017]
§ 165.20
Whistleblower anti-retaliation protections.
(a)
In general.
No employer may discharge, demote, suspend, directly or indirectly threaten or harass, or in any other manner discriminate against, a whistleblower in the terms and conditions of employment because of any lawful act done by the whistleblower—
(1) In providing information to the Commission in accordance with this part; or
(2) In assisting in any investigation or judicial or administrative action of the Commission based upon or related to such information.
(b)
Anti-retaliation enforcement.
Section 23(h)(1)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 26(h)(1)), including the rules in this part promulgated thereunder, shall be enforceable in an action or proceeding brought by the Commission including where retaliation is in response to a whistleblower providing information to the Commission after reporting the information through internal whistleblower, legal or compliance procedures.
(c)
Protections apply regardless of non-qualification.
The anti-retaliation protections apply whether or not the whistleblower satisfies the requirements, procedures, and conditions to qualify for an award.
[82 FR 24501, May 30, 2017]
Pt. 165, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 165—Guidance With Respect to the Protection of Whistleblowers Against Retaliation
(a)
In general.
Section 23(h)(1) of Commodity Exchange Act prohibits employers from engaging in retaliation against whistleblowers. A violation of this provision could
be addressed by a Commission enforcement action, or a lawsuit by an individual. Section 23(h)(1)(B) provides for a federal cause of action brought by the whistleblower against the employer, which must be filed in the appropriate district court of the United States within two (2) years of the employer's retaliatory act, and potential relief for prevailing whistleblowers, including reinstatement, back pay, and compensation for other expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees.
(b)
Enforcement
—(1)
Private cause of action.
(i) An individual who alleges discharge, demotion, suspension, direct or indirect threats or harassment, or any other manner of discrimination in violation of section 23(h)(1)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act may bring an action under section 23(h)(1)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act in the appropriate district court of the United States for the relief provided in section 23(h)(1)(C) of the Commodity Exchange Act, unless the individual who is alleging discharge or other discrimination in violation of section 23(h)(1)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act is an employee of the Federal Government, in which case the individual shall only bring an action under section 1221 of title 5, United States Code.
(ii)
Subpoenas.
A subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a trial or hearing conducted under section 23(h)(1)(B)(ii) of the Commodity Exchange Act may be served at any place in the United States.
(iii)
Statute of limitations.
A private cause of action under section 23(h)(1)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act may not be brought more than 2 years after the date on which the violation reported in section 23(h)(1)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act is committed.
(iv)
Relief.
Relief for an individual prevailing in an action brought under section 23(h)(1)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act shall include—
(A) Reinstatement with the same seniority status that the individual would have had, but for the discrimination;
(B) The amount of back pay otherwise owed to the individual, with interest; and
(C) Compensation for any special damages sustained as a result of the discharge or discrimination, including litigation costs, expert witness fees, and reasonable attorney's fees.
(2)
Commission authority to bring action.
The Commission may bring an enforcement action against an employer that retaliates against a whistleblower by discharge, demotion, suspension, direct or indirect threats or harassment, or any other manner of discrimination.
[82 FR 24501, May 30, 2017]
Pt. 165, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 165—Form TCR and Form WP-APP
ER30MY17.017
ER30MY17.018
ER30MY17.019
ER30MY17.020
ER30MY17.021
ER30MY17.022
ER30MY17.023
ER30MY17.024
ER30MY17.025
ER30MY17.026
ER30MY17.027
ER30MY17.028

# Submission Procedures
Questions concerning this form may be directed to Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Whistleblower Office, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street NW., Washington, DC 20581.
• If you are submitting information for the CFTC's whistleblower award program, you
must
submit your information using this Form TCR.
• You may submit this form electronically, through the Web portal found on the CFTC's Web site at
http://www.whistleblower.gov.
You may also print this form and submit it by mail to Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Whistleblower Office at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, or by facsimile to (202) 418-5975.
• You have the right to submit information anonymously. If you do not submit anonymously, please note that the CFTC is required by law to maintain the confidentiality of any information which could reasonably identify you, and will only reveal such information in limited and specifically-defined circumstances. See 7 U.S.C. 26(h)(2); 17 CFR 165.4. However, in order to receive a whistleblower award, you will need to be identified to select CFTC staff for a final eligibility determination, and in unusual circumstances, you may need to be identified publicly for trial. You should therefore provide some means for the CFTC's staff to contact you, such as a telephone number or an email address.

# Instructions for Completing Form TCR

# General
All references to “you” and “your” are intended to mean the complainant.

# Section A: Tell Us About Yourself
Questions 1-14: Please provide the following information about yourself:
☐ last name, first name and middle initial;
☐ complete address, including city, state and zip code;
☐ telephone number and, if available, an alternate number where you can be reached;
☐ your email address (to facilitate communications, we strongly encourage you to provide an email address, especially if you are filing anonymously);
☐ your preferred method of communication; and
☐ your occupation.

# Section B: Your Attorney's Information
Complete this section only if you are represented by an attorney in this matter.
Questions 1-10: Provide the following information about your attorney:
☐ attorney's name;
☐ firm name;
☐ complete address, including city, state and zip code;
☐ telephone number and fax number; and
☐ email address.

# Section C: Tell Us Who You Are Complaining About
Question 1-2: Choose one of the following that best describes the individual's profession or the type of entity to which your complaint relates:
For Individuals:
accountant, analyst, associated person, attorney, auditor, broker, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, compliance officer, employee, executing broker, executive officer or director, financial planner, floor broker, floor trader, trader, unknown or other (specify).
For Entities:
bank, commodity pool, commodity pool operator, commodity trading
advisor, futures commission merchant, hedge fund, introducing broker, major swap participant, retail foreign exchange dealer, swap dealer, unknown or other (specify).
Questions 3-12: For each individual and/or entity, provide the following information, if known:
☐ full name;
☐ complete address, including city, state and zip code;
☐ telephone number;
☐ email address; and
☐ internet address, if applicable.
Questions 13: If the firm or individual you are complaining about has custody or control of your investment, identify whether you have had difficulty contacting that firm or individual.
Question 14: Identify if you are, or were, associated with the individual or firm you are complaining about. If yes, describe how you are, or were, associated with the individual or firm you are complaining about.
Question 15: Identify the initial form of contact between you and the person against whom you are filing this complaint.

# Section D: Tell Us About Your Complaint
Question 1: State the date (mm/dd/yyyy) that the alleged conduct occurred or began.
Question 2: Identify if the conduct is on-going.
Question 3: Choose the option that you believe best describes the nature of your complaint. If you are alleging more than one violation, please list all that you believe may apply.
Question 4: Select the type of product or instrument you are complaining about.
Question 5: If applicable, please name the product or instrument. If yes, please describe.
Question 6: Identify whether you have suffered a monetary loss. If yes, please describe.
Question 7: Identify if the individual or firm you are complaining about acknowledged their fault.
Question 8: Indicate whether you have taken any other action regarding your complaint, including whether you complained to the CFTC, another regulator, a law enforcement agency, or any other agency or organization, or initiated legal action, mediation, arbitration or any other action.
If you answered yes, provide details, including the date on which you took the action(s) described, the name of the person or entity to whom you directed any report or complaint, and contact information for the person or entity, if known, and the complete case name, case number and forum of any legal action you have taken.
Question 9: State in detail all facts pertinent to the alleged violation. Explain why you believe the facts described constitute a violation of the Commodity Exchange Act.
Question 10: Describe all supporting materials in your possession and the availability and location of any additional supporting materials not in your possession.

# Section E: Whistleblower Program
Question 1: Describe how you obtained the information that supports your allegations. If any information was obtained from an attorney or in a communication where an attorney was present, identify such information with as much particularity as possible. In addition, if any information was obtained from a public source, identify the source with as much particularity as possible.
Question 2: Identify any documents or other information in your submission on this Form TCR that you believe could reasonably be expected to reveal your identity. Explain the basis for your belief that your identity would be revealed if the documents or information were disclosed to a third party.
Question 3: State whether you or your attorney have had any prior communication(s) with the CFTC concerning this matter.
If you answered “yes”, identify the CFTC staff member(s) with whom you or your attorney communicated.
Question 4: Indicate whether you or your attorney have provided the information you are providing to the CFTC to any other agency or organization, or whether any other agency or organization has requested the information or related information from you.
If you answered “yes”, provide details and the name and contact information of the point of contact at the other agency or organization, if known.
Question 5: Indicate whether your complaint relates to an entity of which you are, or were in the past, an officer, director, counsel, employee, consultant or contractor.
If you answered “yes”, state whether you have reported this violation to your supervisor, compliance office, whistleblower hotline, ombudsman, or any other available mechanism at the entity for reporting violations. Please provide details, including the date on which you took the action.
Question 6: Indicate whether you have taken any other action regarding your complaint, including whether you complained to the CFTC, another regulator, a law enforcement agency, or any other agency or organization, or initiated legal action, mediation, arbitration or any other action.
If you answered “yes”, provide details, including the date on which you took the action(s) described, the name of the person or entity to whom you directed any report or complaint, and contact information for the person or entity, if known, and the complete case name, case number and forum of any legal action you have taken.
Question 7: Provide any additional information you think may be relevant.

# Section F: Whistleblower Eligibility Requirements and Other Information
Question 1: State whether you are currently, or were at the time that you acquired the original information that you are submitting to the CFTC, a member, officer or employee of: The CFTC; the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision; the National Credit Union Administration Board; the Securities and Exchange Commission; the Department of Justice; a registered entity; a registered futures association; a self-regulatory organization (as defined in 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)); a law enforcement organization; or a foreign regulatory authority or law enforcement organization.
Question 2: State whether you are providing the information pursuant to a cooperation agreement with the CFTC or with another agency or organization.
Question 3: State whether you are providing this information before you (or anyone representing you) received any request, inquiry or demand that relates to the subject matter of this submission (i) from the CFTC, (ii) in connection with an investigation, inspection or examination by any registered entity, registered futures association or self-regulatory organization (as defined in 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)), or (iii) in connection with an investigation by the Congress, or any other federal or state authority.
Question 4: State whether you are currently a subject or target of a criminal investigation, or whether you have been convicted of a criminal violation, in connection with the information you are submitting to the CFTC.
Question 5: State whether you acquired the information you are providing to the CFTC from any individual described in Questions 1 through 4 of this section.
Question 6: If you answered yes to any of Questions 1 through 5, please provide details.

# Section G: Privacy Notice and Whistleblower's Declaration
You must sign this Declaration if you are submitting this information pursuant to the CFTC whistleblower program and wish to be considered for an award. If you are submitting your information using the electronic version of Form TCR through the CFTC's web portal, you must check the box to agree with the declaration. If you are submitting your information anonymously, you must still sign this Declaration (using the term “anonymous”) or check the box as appropriate, and, if you are represented by an attorney, you must provide your attorney with the original of this signed form, or maintain a copy for your own records.

# Section H: Counsel Certification
If you are submitting this information pursuant to the CFTC whistleblower program and you are doing so anonymously through an attorney, your attorney must sign the Counsel Certification Section. If your attorney is submitting your information using the electronic version of Form TCR through the CFTC's web portal, he/she must check the box to agree with the certification. If you are represented in this matter but you are not submitting your information pursuant to the CFTC whistleblower program, your attorney does not need to sign this Certification or check the box.
ER30MY17.029
ER30MY17.030
ER30MY17.031
ER30MY17.032
ER30MY17.033

# Privacy Act Statement
This notice is given under the Privacy Act of 1974. The Privacy Act requires that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) inform individuals of the following when asking for information. The solicitation of this information is authorized under the Commodity Exchange Act, 7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
The information provided will enable the CFTC to determine the whistleblower award claimant's eligibility for payment of an award pursuant to Section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act and Part 165 of the CFTC's regulations. This information will be used to investigate and prosecute violations of the Commodity Exchange Act and the CFTC's regulations. This information may be disclosed to federal, state, local or foreign agencies or other authorities responsible for investigating, prosecuting, enforcing or implementing laws, rules or regulations implicated by the information consistent with the confidentiality requirements set forth in Section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act and Part 165 of the CFTC's regulations. The information will be maintained and additional disclosures may be made in accordance with System of Records Notices CFTC-49, “Whistleblower Records” (exempted), CFTC-10, “Investigatory Records” (exempted), and CFTC-16, “Enforcement Case Files.” The CFTC requests the last four digits of the claimant's Social Security Number for use as an individual identifier to administer and manage the whistleblower award program. Executive Order 9397 (November 22, 1943) allows federal agencies to use the Social Security Number as an individual identifier. Furnishing the information is voluntary. However, if an individual is providing information for the whistleblower award program, not providing required information may result in the individual not being eligible for award consideration.
Questions concerning this form may be directed to Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Whistleblower Office, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street NW., Washington, DC 20581.

# Submission Procedures
• This form
must
be used by persons making a claim for a whistleblower award in connection with information provided to the CFTC, or to another agency or organization in a related action. In order to be deemed eligible for an award, you must meet all the requirements set forth in Section 23 of the Commodity Exchange Act and Part 165 of the CFTC's regulations.
• You must sign the Form WB-APP as the claimant. If you wish to submit the Form WB-APP anonymously, you must do so through an attorney, your attorney must sign the Counsel Certification Section of the Form WB-APP that is submitted to the CFTC, and you must give your attorney your
original signed Form WB-APP so that it can be produced to the CFTC upon request.
• During the whistleblower award claim process, your identity must be verified in a form and manner that is acceptable to the CFTC prior to the payment of any award.
○ If you are filing your claim in connection with information that you provided to the CFTC, then your Form WB-APP, and any attachments thereto, must be received by the CFTC within ninety (90) days of the date of the Notice of Covered Action, or the date of a final judgment in a related action to which the claim relates.
○ If you are filing your claim in connection with information that you provided to another agency or organization in a related action, then your Form WB-APP, and any attachments thereto, must be received by the CFTC as follows:
• If a final order imposing monetary sanctions has been entered in a related action at the time that you submit your claim for an award in connection with a CFTC action, you may submit your claim for an award in that related action on the same Form WB-APP that you use for the CFTC action.
• If a final order imposing monetary sanctions in a related action has not been entered at the time that you submit your claim for an award in connection with a CFTC action, you must submit your claim on Form WB-APP within ninety (90) days of the issuance of a final order imposing sanctions in the related action.
• If a final order imposing monetary sanctions in a related action relates to a judicial or administrative action brought by the Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act that is not a covered judicial or administrative action, and therefore there would not be a Notice of Covered Action, you must submit your claim on Form WB-APP for an award in connection with the related action within ninety (90) calendar days following either (1) the date of issuance of a final order in the related action, if that date is after the date of issuance of the final judgment in the related Commission judicial or administrative action; or (2) the date of issuance of the final judgment in the related Commission judicial or administrative action,
i.e.,
the date the related action becomes a related action, if the date of issuance of the final order in the related action precedes the final judgment in the related Commission judicial or administrative action.
• To submit your Form WB-APP, you may print it and either submit it by mail to Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Whistleblower Office, Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street NW., Washington, DC 20581, or by facsimile to (202) 418-5975. You also may submit this form electronically, through the web portal found on the CFTC's Web site at
http://www.cftc.gov,
which is also accessible from the CFTC Whistleblower Program Web site at
www.whistleblower.gov.

# Instructions for Completing Form WB-APP

# General
All references to “you” and “your” are intended to mean the whistleblower award claimant.

# Section A: Tell Us About Yourself
Questions 1-3: Please provide the following information about yourself:
• last name, first name, middle initial and the last four digits of your Social Security Number;
• complete address, including city, state and zip code;
• telephone number and, if available, an alternate number where you can be reached; and
• your email address (to facilitate communications, we strongly encourage you to provide an email address, especially if you are making your claim anonymously).

# Section B: Your Attorney's Information
Complete this section only if you are represented by an attorney in this matter.
Questions 1-4: Provide the following information about your attorney:
• attorney's name;
• firm name;
• complete address, including city, state and zip code;
• telephone number and fax number; and
• email address.

# Section C: Tell Us About Your Tip or Complaint
Question 1a: Indicate the manner in which you submitted your original information to the CFTC.
Question 1b: Provide the date on which you submitted your original information to the CFTC.
Question 2a: State whether you filed a CFTC Form TCR.
Question 2b: If you filed a CFTC Form TCR, provide the Form's number.
Question 2c: If you filed a CFTC Form TCR, provide the date on which you filed the Form.
Question 3: Provide the name(s) of the individual(s) and/or entity(s) to which your tip or complaint relates.

# Section D: Notice of Covered Action
The process for making a claim for a whistleblower award for a CFTC action begins with the publication of a “Notice of Covered Action” on the CFTC's Web site. This Notice is published whenever a judicial or administrative action brought by the CFTC results
in the imposition of monetary sanctions exceeding $1,000,000. The Notice is published on the CFTC's Web site subsequent to the entry of a final judgment or order in the action that by itself, or collectively with other judgments or orders previously entered in the action, exceeds the $1,000,000 threshold required for a whistleblower to be potentially eligible for an award. The CFTC will not contact whistleblower claimants directly as to Notices of Covered Actions; prospective claimants should monitor the CFTC Web site for such Notices.
Question 1: Provide the date of the Notice of Covered Action to which this claim relates.
Question 2: Provide the notice number of the Notice of Covered Action.
Question 3a: Provide the case name referenced in the Notice of Covered Action.
Question 3b: Provide the case number referenced in the Notice of Covered Action.

# Section E: Claims Pertaining to Related Actions
Question 1: Provide the name of the agency or organization to which you provided your information.
Question 2: Provide the name and contact information for your point of contact at the agency or organization, if known.
Question 3a: Provide the date on which you provided your information to the agency or organization referenced in Question 1 of this section.
Question 3b: Provide the date on which the agency or organization referenced in Question 1 of this section filed the related action that was based upon the information that you provided.
Question 4a: Provide the case name of the related action.
Question 4b: Provide the case number of the related action.

# Section F: Eligibility Requirements and Other Information
Question 1: State whether you are currently, or were at the time that you acquired the original information that you submitted to the CFTC, a member, officer or employee of: The CFTC; the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision; the National Credit Union Administration Board; the Securities and Exchange Commission; the Department of Justice; a registered entity; a registered futures association; a self-regulatory organization; a law enforcement organization; or a foreign regulatory authority or law enforcement organization.
Question 2: State whether you provided the information that you submitted to the CFTC pursuant to a cooperation agreement with the CFTC, or with any other agency or organization.
Question 3: State whether you provided this information before you (or anyone representing you) received any request, inquiry or demand that relates to the subject matter of your submission (i) from the CFTC, (ii) in connection with an investigation, inspection or examination by any registered entity, registered futures association or self-regulatory organization, or (iii) in connection with an investigation by the Congress, or any other federal or state authority.
Question 4: State whether you are currently a subject or target of a criminal investigation, or whether you have been convicted of a criminal violation, in connection with the information that you submitted to the CFTC and upon which your application for an award is based.
Question 5: State whether you acquired the information that you provided to the CFTC from any individual described in Questions 1 through 4 of this section.
Question 6: If you answered yes to any of Questions 1 through 5 of this section, please provide details.

# Section G: Entitlement to Award
This section is optional. Use this section to explain the basis for your belief that you are entitled to an award in connection with your submission of information to the CFTC, or to another agency in connection with a related action. Specifically, address why you believe that you voluntarily provided the CFTC with original information that led to the successful enforcement of a judicial or administrative action filed by the CFTC, or a related action. Refer to § 165.9 of the CFTC's regulations for further information concerning the relevant award criteria.
Section 23(c)(1)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act and § 165.9(a) of the CFTC's regulations require the CFTC to consider the following factors in determining the amount of an award: (1) The significance of the information provided by a whistleblower to the success of the CFTC action or related action; (2) the degree of assistance provided by the whistleblower and any legal representative of the whistleblower in the CFTC action or related action; (3) the programmatic interest of the CFTC in deterring violations of the Commodity Exchange Act (including regulations under the Act) by making awards to whistleblowers who provide information that leads to the successful enforcement of such laws; (4) whether the award otherwise enhances the CFTC's ability to enforce the Commodity Exchange Act, protect customers, and encourage the submission of high quality information from whistleblowers; and (5) potential adverse incentives from oversize awards. Address these factors in your response as well.

# Section H: Claimant's Declaration
You must sign this Declaration if you are submitting this claim pursuant to the CFTC whistleblower program and wish to be considered for an award. If you are submitting your claim anonymously, you must do so through an attorney, and you must provide your attorney with your original signed Form WB-APP.

# Section I: Counsel Certification
If you are submitting this claim pursuant to the CFTC whistleblower program anonymously, you must do so through an attorney, and your attorney must sign the Counsel Certification Section.
[82 FR 24501, May 30, 2017]
Pt. 166

# PART 166—CUSTOMER PROTECTION RULES
Sec.
166.1
Definitions.
166.2
Authorization to trade.
166.3
Supervision.
166.4
Branch offices.
166.5
Dispute settlement procedures.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 6b, 6c, 6d, 6g, 6h, 6k, 6l, 6o, 7, 12a, 21, and 23, as amended by the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, appendix E of Pub. L. 106-554, 114 Stat. 2763 (2000).
§ 166.1
Definitions.
(a) The term
Commission registrant
as used in this part means any person who is registered or required to be registered with the Commission pursuant to the Act or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The term
customer
as used in this part means any person trading, intending to trade, or receiving or seeking advice concerning any commodity interest, including any existing or prospective client or subscriber of a commodity trading advisor or existing or prospective participant in a commodity pool, but the term does not include a person who is acting in the capacity of a Commission registrant with respect to the trade.
(d) The term
commodity account
as used in this part means the account of a customer in which any commodity interest is, or is intended to be, traded.
[43 FR 31886, July 24, 1978, as amended at 46 FR 54535, Nov. 3, 1981; 52 FR 29003, Aug. 5, 1987; 72 FR 63979, Nov. 14, 2007]
§ 166.2
Authorization to trade.
No futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, introducing broker or any of their associated persons may directly or indirectly effect a transaction in a commodity interest for the account of any customer unless before the transaction the customer, or person designated by the customer to control the account:
(a) With respect to a commodity interest as defined in any paragraph of the commodity interest definition in § 1.3 of this chapter, specifically authorized the futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, introducing broker or any of their associated persons to effect the transaction (a transaction is “specifically authorized” if the customer or person designated by the customer to control the account specifies—
(1) The precise commodity interest to be purchased or sold; and
(2) The exact amount of the commodity interest to be purchased or sold); or
(b) With respect to a commodity interest as defined in paragraph (1) or (2) of the commodity interest definition in § 1.3 of this chapter, authorized in writing the futures commission merchant, introducing broker or any of their associated persons to effect transactions in commodity interests for the account without the customer's specific authorization;
Provided, however,
That if any such futures commission merchant, introducing broker or any of their associated persons is also authorized to effect transactions in foreign futures or foreign options without the customer's specific authorization, such authorization must be expressly documented.
[75 FR 55451, Sept. 10, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 66349, Nov. 2, 2012; 83 FR 7997, Feb. 23, 2018]
§ 166.3
Supervision.
Each Commission registrant, except an associated person who has no supervisory duties, must diligently supervise the handling by its partners, officers, employees and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) of all commodity interest accounts carried, operated, advised or introduced by the registrant
and all other activities of its partners, officers, employees and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) relating to its business as a Commission registrant.
[48 FR 35304, Aug. 3, 1983]
§ 166.4
Branch offices.
Each branch office of each Commission registrant must use the name of the firm of which it is a branch for all purposes, and must hold itself out to the public under such name. The act, omission or failure of any person acting for the branch office, within the scope of his employment or office, shall be deemed the act, omission or failure of the Commission registrant as well as of such person.
[48 FR 35304, Aug. 3, 1983]
§ 166.5
Dispute settlement procedures.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) The term
claim or grievance
as used in this section shall mean any dispute that:
(A) Arises out of any transaction executed on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market,
(B) Is executed or effected through a member of such facility, a participant transacting on or through such facility or an employee of such facility, and
(C) Does not require for adjudication the presence of essential witnesses or third parties over whom the facility does not have jurisdiction and who are not otherwise available.
(ii) Arises out of any retail forex transaction (as defined in § 5.1(m) of this chapter).
(2) The term
customer
as used in this section includes any person for or on behalf of whom a member of a designated contract market, or a participant transacting on or through such designated contract market, effects a transaction on such contract market, except another member of or participant in such designated contract market.
Provided, however,
a person who is an “eligible contract participant” as defined in section 1a(18) of the Act shall not be deemed to be a customer within the meaning of this section.
(3) The term
Commission registrant
as used in this section means a person registered under the Act as a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, introducing broker, floor broker, commodity pool operator, commodity trading advisor, or associated person.
(b)
Voluntariness.
The use by customers of dispute settlement procedures shall be voluntary as provided in paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section.
(c)
Customers.
No Commission registrant shall enter into any agreement or understanding with a customer in which the customer agrees, prior to the time a claim or grievance arises, to submit such claim or grievance to any settlement procedure except as follows:
(1) Signing the agreement must not be made a condition for the customer to utilize the services offered by the Commission registrant.
(2) If the agreement is contained as a clause or clauses of a broader agreement, the customer must separately endorse the clause or clauses containing the cautionary language and provisions specified in this section. A futures commission merchant or introducing broker may obtain such endorsement as provided in § 1.55(d) of this chapter for the following classes of customers only:
(i) A plan defined as a government plan or church plan in section 3(32) or section 3(33) of title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 or a foreign person performing a similar role or function subject as such to comparable foreign regulation; and
(ii) A person who is a “qualified eligible participant” or a “qualified eligible client” as defined in § 4.7 of this chapter.
(3) The agreement may not require any customer to waive the right to seek reparations under section 14 of the Act and part 12 of this chapter. Accordingly, such customer must be advised in writing that he or she may seek reparations under section 14 of the Act by an election made within 45 days after the Commission registrant notifies the customer that arbitration will be demanded under the agreement. This notice must be given at the time when the Commission registrant notifies the customer of an intention to arbitrate. The customer must also be advised that if he or she seeks reparations under section 14 of the Act and the
Commission declines to institute reparations proceedings, the claim or grievance will be subject to the pre-existing arbitration agreement and must also be advised that aspects of the claim or grievance that are not subject to the reparations procedure (
i.e.,
do not constitute a violation of the Act or rules thereunder) may be required to be submitted to the arbitration or other dispute settlement procedure set forth in the pre-existing arbitration agreement.
(4) The agreement must advise the customer that, at such time as he or she may notify the Commission registrant that he or she intends to submit a claim to arbitration, or at such time as such person notifies the customer of its intent to submit a claim to arbitration, the customer will have the opportunity to elect a qualified forum for conducting the proceeding.
(5)
Election of forum.
(i) Within ten business days after receipt of notice from the customer that he or she intends to submit a claim to arbitration, or at the time a Commission registrant notifies the customer of its intent to submit a claim to arbitration, the Commission registrant must provide the customer with a list of organizations whose procedures meet Acceptable Practices established by the Commission for dispute resolution, together with a copy of the rules of each forum listed. The list must include:
(A) The designated contract market, if applicable and if available, upon which the transaction giving rise to the dispute was executed or could have been executed;
(B) A registered futures association; and
(C) At least one other organization that will provide the customer with the opportunity to select the location of the arbitration proceeding from among several major cities in diverse geographic regions and that will provide the customer with the choice of a panel or other decision-maker composed of at least one or more persons, of which at least a majority are not members or associated with a member of the designated contract market, if applicable, or employee thereof, and that are not otherwise associated with the designated contract market (mixed panel), if applicable: Provided, however, that the list of qualified organizations provided by a Commission registrant that is a floor broker need not include a registered futures association unless a registered futures association has been authorized to act as a decision-maker in such matters.
(ii) The customer shall, within forty-five days after receipt of such list, notify the opposing party of the organization selected. A customer's failure to provide such notice shall give the opposing party the right to select an organization from the list.
(6)
Fees.
The agreement must acknowledge that the Commission registrant will pay any incremental fees that may be assessed by a qualified forum for provision of a mixed panel, unless the arbitrators in a particular proceeding determine that the customer has acted in bad faith in initiating or conducting that proceeding.
(7)
Cautionary Language.
The agreement must include the following language printed in large boldface type:
Three Forums Exist for the Resolution of Commodity Disputes: Civil Court litigation, reparations at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and arbitration conducted by a self-regulatory or other private organization.
The CFTC recognizes that the opportunity to settle disputes by arbitration may in some cases provide many benefits to customers, including the ability to obtain an expeditious and final resolution of disputes without incurring substantial costs. The CFTC requires, however, that each customer individually examine the relative merits of arbitration and that your consent to this arbitration agreement be voluntary.
By signing this agreement, you: (1) May be waiving your right to sue in a court of law; and (2) are agreeing to be bound by arbitration of any claims or counterclaims which you or [name] may submit to arbitration under this agreement. You are not, however, waiving your right to elect instead to petition the CFTC to institute reparations proceedings under Section 14 of the Commodity Exchange Act with respect to any dispute that may be arbitrated pursuant to this agreement. In the event a dispute arises, you will be notified if [name] intends to submit the dispute to arbitration. If you believe a violation of the Commodity Exchange Act is involved and if you prefer to request a section 14 “Reparations” proceeding before the CFTC, you will have 45 days from the date of such notice in which to make that election.
You need not sign this agreement to open or maintain an account with [name]. See 17 CFR 166.5.
(d)
Enforceability.
A dispute settlement procedure may require parties utilizing such procedure to agree, under applicable state law, submission agreement or otherwise, to be bound by an award rendered in the procedure, provided that the agreement to submit the claim or grievance to the procedure was made in accordance with paragraph (c) or (g) of this section or that the agreement to submit the claim or grievance was made after the claim or grievance arose. Any award so rendered shall be enforceable in accordance with applicable law.
(e)
Time limits for submission of claims.
The dispute settlement procedure established by a designated contract market shall not include any unreasonably short limitation period foreclosing submission of customers' claims or grievances or counterclaims.
(f)
Counterclaims.
A procedure established by a designated contract market under the Act for the settlement of customers' claims or grievances against a member or employee thereof may permit the submission of a counterclaim in the procedure by a person against whom a claim or grievance is brought. The designated contract market may permit such a counterclaim where the counterclaim arises out of the transaction or occurrence that is the subject of the customer's claim or grievance and does not require for adjudication the presence of essential witnesses, parties, or third persons over whom the designated contract market does not have jurisdiction. Other counterclaims arising out of a transaction subject to the Act and rules promulgated thereunder for which the customer utilizes the services of the registrant may be permissible where the customer and the registrant have agreed in advance to require that all such submissions be included in the proceeding, and if the aggregate monetary value of the counterclaims is capable of calculation.
(g)
Eligible contract participants.
A person who is an “eligible contract participant” as defined in section 1a(12) of the Act may negotiate any term of an agreement or understanding with a Commission registrant in which the eligible contract participant agrees, prior to the time a claim or grievance arises, to submit such claim or grievance to any settlement procedure provided for in the agreement.
[66 FR 42287, Aug. 10, 2001, as amended at 75 FR 55451, Sept. 10, 2010; 77 FR 66349, Nov. 2, 2012]
Pt. 170

# PART 170—REGISTERED FUTURES ASSOCIATIONS

# Subpart A—Standards Governing Commission Review of Applications for Registration as a Futures Association Under Section 17 of the Act
Sec.
170.1
Demonstration of purposes (section 17(b)(1) of the Act).
170.2
Membership restrictions (section 17(b)(2) of the Act).
170.3
Fair and equitable representation of members (section 17(b)(5) of the Act).
170.4
Allocation of dues (section 17(b)(6) of the Act).
170.5
Prevention of fraudulent and manipulative practices (section 17(b)(7) of the Act).
170.6
Disciplinary proceedings (sections 17(b)(8) and (b)(9) of the Act).
170.7
Membership denial (section 17(b)(9) of the Act).
170.8
Settlement of customer disputes (section 17(b)(10) of the Act).
170.9
General standard.
170.10
Proficiency examinations (sections 4p and 17(p) of the Act).

# Subpart B—Registration Statement of Futures Associations to be Submitted to the Commission
170.11
Form of registration statement; review of registration statement.
170.12
Delegation of Authority to Director of the Market Participants Division.

# Subpart C—Membership in a Registered Futures Association
170.15
Futures commission merchants.
170.16
Swap dealers and major swap participants.
170.17
Introducing brokers, commodity pool operators, and commodity trading advisors.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6d, 6m, 6p, 6s, 12a, and 21.

# Source:
44 FR 20651, Apr. 6, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Standards Governing Commission Review of Applications for Registration as a Futures Association Under Section 17 of the Act
§ 170.1
Demonstration of purposes (section 17(b)(1) of the Act).
A futures association must demonstrate that it will be able to carry out the purposes of section 17 of the Act. Since a basic purpose of a futures association is to regulate the practices of its members, an association should demonstrate that it will require its members to adhere to regulatory requirements governing their business practices at least as stringent as those imposed by the Commission. For example, the association should be prepared to establish and maintain in accordance with § 1.52 of this chapter, a financial compliance program for those members of the association who are futures commission merchants.
§ 170.2
Membership restrictions (section 17(b)(2) of the Act).
If it appears to the Commission to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest and to carry out the purposes of section 17 of the Act, a futures association may restrict its membership to individuals registered by the Commission in a particular capacity or to individuals doing business in a particular geographical region or to firms having a particular level of capital assets or which engage in a specified amount of business per year.
[48 FR 35305, Aug. 3, 1983]
§ 170.3
Fair and equitable representation of members (section 17(b)(5) of the Act).
A futures association must assure fair and equitable representation of the views and interests of all association members in the procedures providing for the adoption, amendment or repeal of any association rule, in an association's procedure for the selection of association officers and directors and in all other phases of the association's affairs and activities, including disciplinary and membership hearings. No single group or class of association members shall dominate or otherwise exercise disproportionate influence on any governing board of an association or on any disciplinary or membership panel of such an association. Non-members of the association shall be represented wherever practicable on any board or hearing panel of the association.
§ 170.4
Allocation of dues (section 17(b)(6) of the Act).
Dues imposed on members of a futures association must be allocated equitably among members and may not be structured in a manner constituting a barrier to entry of any person seeking to engage in commodity-related business activities.
§ 170.5
Prevention of fraudulent and manipulative practices (section 17(b)(7) of the Act).
A futures association must establish and maintain a program for the protection of customers and option customers, including the adoption of rules to protect customers and option customers and customer funds and to promote fair dealing with the public. These rules shall set forth the ethical standards for members of the association in their business dealings with the public. An applicant association must also demonstrate its capability to foster a professional atmosphere among its members, including an acceptance of an adherence to the ethical standards, and to monitor and enforce compliance with the customer and option customer protection program and rules.
(Secs. 2(a)(1), 4c(a)-(d), 4d, 4f, 4g, 4k, 4m, 4n, 8a, 15 and 17, Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2, 4, 6c(a)-(d), 6d, 6f, 6g, 6k, 6m, 6n, 12a, 19 and 21; 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552b))
[47 FR 57020, Dec. 22, 1982]
§ 170.6
Disciplinary proceedings (sections 17(b)(8) and (b)(9) of the Act).
A futures association must provide a fair and orderly procedure with respect to disciplinary actions brought against association members or persons associated with members. These rules governing such disciplinary actions shall contain, at a minimum, the procedural safeguards contained in section 17(b)(9) of the Act. In addition, an association, in disciplining its members should demonstrate that it will:
(a) Take vigorous action against those who engage in activities in violation of association rules;
(b) Conduct proceedings in a manner consistent with the fundamental elements of due process; and
(c) Impose discipline which is fair and has a reasonable basis in fact.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0022)
[44 FR 20651, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981]
§ 170.7
Membership denial (section 17(b)(9) of the Act).
A futures association must provide a fair and orderly procedure for processing membership applications and for affording any person to be denied membership an opportunity to submit evidence in response to the grounds for denial stated by the association. The procedures governing denials of membership in the association shall contain, at a minimum, the procedural safeguards contained in section 17(b)(9) of the Act.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0022)
[44 FR 20651, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981]
§ 170.8
Settlement of customer disputes (section 17(b)(10) of the Act).
A futures association must be able to demonstrate its capacity to promulgate rules and to conduct proceedings that provide a fair, equitable and expeditious procedure, through arbitration or otherwise, for the voluntary settlement of a customer's claim or grievance brought against any member of the association or any employee of a member of the association. Such rules shall conform to and be consistent with section 17(b)(10) of the Act and be consistent with the guidelines and acceptable practices for dispute resolution found within appendix A and appendix B to part 38 of this chapter.
[66 FR 42288, Aug. 10, 2001]
§ 170.9
General standard.
An applicant seeking registration as a futures association by the Commission must demonstrate the association's ability to comply with standards and requirements set forth in this part. The applicant must also demonstrate its ability to satisfy the provisions of section 17 of the Act as well as other applicable legal considerations, including that the association will promote fair and open competition among its members and will conduct its affairs consistent with the public interest to be protected by the antitrust laws. The Commission shall not register an applicant association unless the Commission finds that the applicant has satisfied the conditions and requirements of section 17 of the Act and of this part and that registration will be in the public interest.
§ 170.10
Proficiency examinations (sections 4p and 17(p) of the Act).
A futures association may prescribe different training standards and proficiency examinations for persons registered in more than one capacity:
Provided,
That nothing contained in the Act or these regulations, including any exemption from registration for persons registered in another capacity, shall be deemed to preclude the establishment of training standards and a proficiency examination requirement for functions performed in such other capacity.
[48 FR 35305, Aug. 3, 1983]

# Subpart B—Registration Statement of Futures Associations to be Submitted to the Commission
§ 170.11
Form of registration statement; review of registration statement.
(a) Any association seeking registration by the Commission as a futures association must file with the Commission a letter requesting that the association be registered by the Commission as a futures association and accompany the letter with the following: (1) The constitution, charter or articles of incorporation of the association, (2) the bylaws of the association, (3) any other rules, resolutions or regulations of the association corresponding to the foregoing, (4) a detailed description of the association's organization, membership and rules of procedure and (5) a detailed statement of the association's capability to comply with the provisions of section 17 of the Act and this
part. This letter and the accompanying information shall be considered as the registration statement of the association. This letter and the accompanying information shall be filed with the Secretariat of the Commission at the Commission's DC headquarters.
(b) At any time after an applicant's registration statement has been filed, the applicant association shall submit to the Commission any supporting or additional information concerning the application of the association as the Commission may request.
(c) If it appears to the Commission, after reviewing any registration statement filed by an applicant association, that the applicant has not satisfied the requirements for registration set forth in section 17 of the Act or of this part, the Commission may, in its discretion, notify the applicant in writing to that effect. Such notice shall specify those requirements of section 17 or of this part which do not appear to have been satisfied and shall afford the applicant a period of at least 60 days in which to respond to the Commission's notice by demonstrating or achieving compliance with the requirements specified by the Commission or otherwise. An applicant may withdraw its registration statement from Commission consideration at any time within such 60 day period.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3038-0022)
[44 FR 20651, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 63036, Dec. 30, 1981; 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 170.12
Delegation of Authority to Director of the Market Participants Division.
The Commission hereby delegates, until the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Market Participants Division the authority to take any of the actions enumerated in §§ 170.11 (b) and (c). Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, if the Director believes it appropriate, he may submit the matter to the Commission for its consideration.
[44 FR 20651, Apr. 6, 1979, as amended at 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71820, Sept. 4, 2024]

# Subpart C—Membership in a Registered Futures Association
§ 170.15
Futures commission merchants.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each person registered as a futures commission merchant must become and remain a member of at least one futures association that is registered under section 17 of the Act and that provides for the membership therein of such futures commission merchant, unless no such futures association is so registered.
(b) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to a futures commission merchant registered in accordance with § 3.10(a)(3) of this chapter.
[66 FR 43083, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 2615, Jan. 22, 2007]
§ 170.16
Swap dealers and major swap participants.
Each person registered as a swap dealer or major swap participant must become and remain a member of at least one futures association that is registered under section 17 of the Act and that provides for the membership therein of such swap dealer or major swap participant, as the case may be, unless no such futures association is so registered.
[77 FR 2629, Jan. 19, 2012]
§ 170.17
Introducing brokers, commodity pool operators, and commodity trading advisors.
Each person registered as an introducing broker, commodity pool operator, or commodity trading advisor must become and remain a member of at least one futures association that is registered under Section 17 of the Act and that provides for the membership therein of introducing brokers, commodity pool operators, or commodity trading advisors, as the case may be, unless no such futures association is so registered; provided, however that a person registered as a commodity trading advisor shall not be required to become or remain a member of such a futures association, solely in respect of its registration as a commodity trading advisor, if such person is eligible
for the exemption from registration as such pursuant to § 4.14(a)(9) of this chapter.
[80 FR 55029, Sept. 14, 2015]
Pt. 171

# PART 171—RULES RELATING TO REVIEW OF NATIONAL FUTURES ASSOCIATION DECISIONS IN DISCIPLINARY, MEMBERSHIP DENIAL, REGISTRATION AND MEMBER RESPONSIBILITY ACTIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
171.1
Scope of rules.
171.2
Definitions.
171.3
Business address; hours.
171.4
Computation of time.
171.5
Extension of time.
171.6
Ex parte communications.
171.7
[Reserved]
171.8
Filing with the Proceedings Clerk.
171.9
Service.
171.10
Motions.
171.11
Sanctions.
171.12
Settlement.
171.13
Practice before the Commission.
171.14
Waiver of rules.

# Subpart B—Notice and Effective Date of Final Decisions in Disciplinary, Membership Denial and Registration Actions
171.20
[Reserved]
171.21
Notice of final decision.
171.22
Effective date of final decisions in disciplinary, membership denial and registration actions.
171.23
Notice of appeal.
171.24
Submission of the record.
171.25
Appeal brief.
171.26
Answering brief.
171.27
Limited participation by interested persons.
171.28
Participation by Commission staff.

# Subpart C—Commission Review of Final Decisions in Disciplinary, Membership Denial and Registration Actions
171.30
Scope of review.
171.31
Commission review in the absence of an appeal.
171.32
Oral argument.
171.33
Final decision by the Commission.
171.34
Standards of review.

# Subpart D—Commission Review of Decisions by the National Futures Association In Member Responsibility Actions
171.40
Notice of the commencement of a member responsibility action.
171.41
Petition for a stay of effective date of a member responsibility action pending a hearing by the National Futures Association.
171.42
Notice of a final decision of the National Futures Association in a member responsibility action.
171.43
Petition for a stay of the effective date of a final decision of the National Futures Association in a member responsibility action.
171.44
Notice of appeal.
171.45
General procedures.
171.46
Standards of review.

# Subpart E—Delegation of Functions
171.50
Delegation to the General Counsel.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 4a, 12a and 21, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 171.1
Scope of rules.
(a)
Matters included.
Unless specifically excluded by subsection (b), this part governs review by the Commission, pursuant to sections 17(h), (i) and (o) of the Commodity Exchange Act (“Act”), as amended, of any disciplinary action, membership denial action, registration action or member responsibility action taken by the National Futures Association or any registered futures association. Unless specifically indicated, references in this part to the National Futures Association shall also include any other registered futures association.
(b)
Matters excluded.
The Commission will not review under these rules the following decisions by the National Futures Association:
(1) A decision in a disciplinary action if the party aggrieved by the decision knowingly failed to pursue the right to appeal an adverse decision to the Appeals Committee of the National Futures Association and there are no extraordinary circumstances that otherwise warrant Commission consideration of the aggrieved party's appeal;
(2) A decision in an arbitration action brought pursuant to section 17(b)(10) of the Act or any rule of the National Futures Association;
(3) Suspension of a member based solely on that member's failure to pay National Futures Association dues;
(4) A decision to disqualify any member for service on the National Futures Association Board of Directors, Business Conduct Committees, Hearing Committee or arbitration panels pursuant to the standards for service adopted by the National Futures Association to implement Commission rule 1.63;
(5) Suspension of a member or a person associated with a member based solely on that person's failure to pay an arbitration award or a settlement agreement resulting from an arbitration action brought pursuant to section 17(b)(10) of the Act or rules and regulations of the National Futures Association, or a settlement agreement resulting from a mediation proceeding sponsored by the National Futures Association, unless there are extraordinary circumstances that involve something more than the ministerial application of a predetermined sanction, or raise a colorable claim that the National Futures Assocaition has acted arbitrarily.
(c)
Appeals from excluded decisions.
If the General Counsel, or any employee under the General Counsel's supervision as the General Counsel may designate, determines that a notice of appeal submitted to the Commission is from a decision that is excluded from review under this part, the notice of appeal may be stricken and ordered to be returned to the aggrieved party who submitted it.
(d)
Applicability of these part 171 rules.
Unless otherwise ordered, these rules will apply in their entirety to all appeals and matters relating thereto filed on or after October 31, 1990. Any part 171 proceeding commenced prior to October 31, 1990 continues to be governed by the procedures established in former subpart F of part 3 of the Commission's regulations, if applicable, or by the procedures established for that proceeding by Commission order. Parties to any proceeding pending on October 31, 1990 may, within 30 days after October 31, 1990 by written stipulation executed by all parties, and filed with the Proceedings Clerk before the Commission's final decision is rendered, elect to have the matter governed by the provisions of these part 171 rules.
[55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 2352, Jan. 13, 2005; 78 FR 1145, Jan. 8, 2013]
§ 171.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Commission decisional employee
includes any member of the Commission staff who participates in, or may be reasonably expected to participate in, the decisionmaking process in any proceeding under this part. It does not include Commissioners or members of their personal staff.
(b)
Disciplinary action
includes any proceeding brought by the National Futures Association to enforce its rules that may result in expulsion, suspension, censure, bar from association with a member, fine in excess of $100 or any comparable sanction being imposed on a member or a person associated with a member.
(c)
Ex parte communication
shall include any communication, whether written or oral, which is both (1) not preceded by reasonable notice to all parties to a proceeding, and (2) not made on the public record. It shall not include requests made to the Office of the General Counsel's Litigation, Enforcement, and Adjudication Section or Office of Proceedings for status reports or for an interpretation of these rules.
(d)
Final Decision
means the decision that terminates the proceeding before the National Futures Association on the action that is the subject of the notice of appeal filed with the Commission.
(e) To
mail
means to place in the United States mail (or to deliver to an overnight delivery service of established reliability) a properly addressed and post-paid document. Unless otherwise provided, documents filed and served by mail must be sent by no less expeditious means than first class United States mail.
(f)
Member
includes any person admitted to membership by the National Futures Association.
(g)
Member Responsibility Action
includes any action in which, based on a finding by the National Futures Association that there is reason to believe that summary action is necessary to protect the commodity futures markets, customers or other members of the association, a member or person associated with a member may be summarily suspended from membership or association with a member, required to
restrict operations or otherwise directed to take remedial action.
(h)
Membership denial action
includes any proceeding brought by the National Futures Association to (1) determine whether an applicant should be admitted to membership or be permitted to be associated with a member, (2) determine whether an applicant should be admitted to membership or be permitted to be associated with a member on a conditional basis, or (3) determine whether to revoke or restrict the membership or association status of any person who is a member or is associated with a member.
(i)
Party
includes any person who has been the subject of a disciplinary action, membership denial action, or registration action by the National Futures Association; the National Futures Association itself; any person granted permission to participate as a party pursuant to § 171.27 of these rules; and any Division of the Commission that files a Notice of Appearance pursuant to § 171.28 of these rules.
(j)
Person associated with a member
includes any person permitted to register as an associate of a member by the National Futures Association.
(k)
Record of the proceeding
shall include the order appealed from, the findings or report on which the order is based, the pleadings, evidence and proceedings before the National Futures Association decisonmaker and a copy of any rule of the National Futures Association that is material to the order.
(l)
Registration action
includes any proceeding brought by the National Futures Association, pursuant to authority delegated by the Commission, to grant, condition, deny, suspend, restrict, or revoke the registration of any person.
(m)
Rule of the National Futures Association
includes any article of incorporation, bylaw, rule, regulation, resolution or written interpretation of stated policy of the National Futures Association.
[55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 89 FR 71821, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 171.3
Business address; hours.
The headquarters of the Commission is located at Three Lafayette Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581. It is open each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays, from 8:15 a.m. until 4:45 p.m., eastern standard time or eastern daylight savings time, whichever is currently in effect in Washington, DC.
[55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 89 FR 71821, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 171.4
Computation of time.
(a)
In general.
In computing any period of time prescribed by these rules or allowed by the Commission, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday. In the latter circumstances, the period runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be included in the computation unless the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven (7) days.
(b)
Date of service of orders.
In computing any period of time involving the date of service of an order, the date of service shall be the date the order is mailed or hand delivered by the Proceedings Clerk, which, unless otherwise indicated, shall be the date stamped on the order by the Proceedings Clerk.
§ 171.5
Extension of time.
(a)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided by these rules, for good cause shown, on its own motion or the motion of a party, the Commission may at any time extend or shorten the time prescribed by the rules for filing any document. In any instance in which a specific time period is not prescribed in this part for an action to be taken concerning any matter, the Commission may establish a time for that action.
(b)
Filing of motion.
Absent extraordinary circumstances, when the time period that has been prescribed for an action to be taken concerning any matter exceeds seven days, requests for extension of that time period shall be filed at least five days prior to the expiration of the time period provided and shall include an explanation of the facts and circumstances that justify the extension.
§ 171.6
Ex parte communications.
(a)
Prohibition of ex parte communications.
(1) No party to a proceeding before the Commission under these rules and no person outside the Commission who has a direct or indirect interest (pecuniary or otherwise) in the outcome of the proceeding or might be aggrieved by the outcome of the proceeding shall make or knowingly cause to be made an
ex parte
communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding subject to these rules to a Commissioner, member of the personal staff of a Commissioner or Commission decisional employee.
(2) No Commissioner, member of the personal staff of a Commissioner or Commission decisional employee shall make or knowingly cause to be made to a party to a proceeding subject to these rules or to any person outside the Commission who has a direct or indirect interest (pecuniary or otherwise) in the outcome of the proceeding or might be aggrieved by the outcome of the proceeding, an
ex parte
communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding subject to these rules.
(b)
Procedure for handling.
Any Commissioner, member of a Commissioner's personal staff or Commission decisional employee who receives, or who makes or knowingly causes to be made, an
ex parte
communication prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section shall:
(1) Place on the public record of the proceeding:
(i) All such written communications;
(ii) Memoranda stating the substance of all such oral communications; and
(iii) All written responses, and memoranda stating the substance of all oral responses, to the materials described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(2) Promptly give written notice of such communications and responses thereto to all parties to the proceedings to which the communication or responses relate.
(c)
Sanctions.
(1) Upon receipt of an
ex parte
communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to be made by a party in violation of the prohibition contained in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Commission may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the policies of the Act, require the party to show cause why his claim or interest in the proceeding should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected on account of such violation.
(2) Any Commissioner, member of a Commissioner's personal staff or Commission decisional employee who knowingly makes or knowingly causes to be made, or who knowingly solicits or knowingly causes the solicitation of, an
ex parte
communication which violates the prohibitions contained in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be deemed to have engaged in conduct of the type proscribed by 17 CFR 140.735-3(b)(3).
(d)
Applicability of prohibitions and sanctions against ex parte communications.
(1)(i) The prohibitions of this section shall begin to apply at the time that a copy of a notice of appeal has been filed with the Proceedings Clerk in accordance with § 171.23 or § 171.44 of this part; or a petition for stay or for an emergency effective date has been filed in accordance with § 171.22, § 171.41 or § 171.43 of this part. The prohibitions of this section shall remain in effect until a final order has been entered in the proceeding which is no longer subject to review by the Commission or to review by any court.
(ii) The Commission may, by specific order entered in a particular proceeding, determine that these prohibitions shall commence from some date prior, or shall continue until a date subsequent, to the times specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) The sanctions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall not apply to a person making a prohibited communication (or causing it to be made) absent evidence that the person acted with actual or constructive knowledge that the person receiving the communication was a Commissioner, member of the personal staff of a Commissioner or a Commission decisional employee.
§ 171.7
[Reserved]
§ 171.8
Filing with the Proceedings Clerk.
(a)
How to file.
Any document that is required by this part to be filed with the Proceedings Clerk shall be filed by
delivering it in person or by first-class mail or a more expeditious form of United States mail, or by overnight or similar commercial delivery service to: Proceedings Clerk, Office of Proceedings, at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters; or faxing the document to (202) 418-5532 or emailing it to
PROC_Filings@cftc.gov.
To be timely filed under this part, a document must be delivered or mailed to the Proceedings Clerk within the time prescribed for filing.
(b)
Proof of filing.
Proof of filing shall be made by attaching to the document for filing an affidavit of filing executed by any person 18 years of age or older or a proof of filing executed by an attorney-at-law qualified for practice before the Commission. The proof of filing shall certify that the attached document was delivered by hand to the Proceedings Clerk or deposited in the United States mail, with first-class postage prepaid (or delivered to an overnight delivery service of established reliability), addressed to the Proceedings Clerk, Office of Proceedings, at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters, on the date specified in the affidavit.
(c)
Formalities of filing
—(1)
Number of copies.
Unless otherwise provided, any person filing a document with the Proceedings Clerk shall provide two conformed copies in addition to the original.
(2)
Title page.
All documents filed with the Proceedings Clerk shall include, at the head thereof, or on a title page, the name of the Commission, the title of the proceeding, the docket number (if one has been assigned by the Proceedings Clerk), the subject of the particular document and the name of the person on whose behalf the document is being filed.
(3)
Paper, spacing, type.
All documents filed with the Proceedings Clerk shall be typewritten, must be on one grade of good white paper no less than 8 or more than 8
1/2
inches wide and no less than 10
1/2
or more than 11
1/2
inches long, and must be bound on the top only. They must be double-spaced, except for long quotations (3 or more lines) and footnotes which should be single-spaced.
(4)
Signature
—(i)
By whom.
All documents filed with the Proceedings Clerk shall be signed personally in ink:
(A) By the person or persons on whose behalf they are tendered for filing;
(B) By a general partner, officer or director of a partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity; or
(C) By an attorney-at-law having authority with respect thereto. The Proceedings Clerk may require appropriate evidence of the authority of a person subscribing a document on behalf of another person.
(ii)
Effect.
The signature on any document of any person acting either for himself or as attorney or agent for another constitutes certification by him that:
(A) He has read the document subscribed and knows the contents thereof;
(B) If executed in any representative capacity, it was done with full power and authority to do so;
(C) To the best of his knowledge, information, and belief, every statement contained in the document is true and not misleading; and
(D) The document is not being interposed for delay.
[55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 49336, Sept. 25, 1995; 78 FR 12937, Feb. 26, 2013; 89 FR 71821, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 171.9
Service.
(a)
General requirements.
Unless otherwise provided, all documents filed with the Proceedings Clerk must be served upon all parties on the same day.
(b)
Manner of service.
Service may be made by personal delivery (effective upon receipt), mail (effective upon deposit), facsimile (effective upon receipt) or electronic mail (effective upon receipt). When service is effected by mail, the time within which the person served may respond thereto shall be increased by five days. Parties who consent to accepting service of documents by electronic means in the underlying NFA action also consent to accepting service by the same means in proceedings under this part 171.
(c)
Proof of service.
Proof of service shall be made by filing with the Proceedings Clerk, at the same time as the relevant document is filed, an affidavit
of service executed by a person 18 years of age or older or a certificate of service executed by an attorney qualified to practice before the Commission. The proof of service shall state that service has been made and identify the person served, the date of service and the manner of service.
(d)
Designation of person to receive service.
The first document filed in a proceeding by or on behalf of any party must state on the first page the name, postal address and telephone number of the person authorized to receive service for the party of all documents filed in the proceeding. Thereafter, service of documents shall be made upon the person authorized unless service on a different authorized person or on the party himself is authorized by the Commission, or unless pursuant to § 171.8 the person authorized is changed by the party upon due notice to all other parties. Parties shall file and serve notification of any changes in the information provided pursuant to this subparagraph as soon as practicable after the change occurs.
(e)
Service of orders and decisions.
A copy of all notices, rulings, opinions and orders of the Commission shall be served on each of the parties by the Proceedings Clerk. Service will be deemed complete upon deposit in the mail.
[55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 72 FR 42277, Aug. 2, 2007]
§ 171.10
Motions.
(a)
In general.
An application for a form of relief not otherwise specifically provided for in this part shall be made by a written motion, filed with the Proceedings Clerk. The motion shall state the relief sought, basis for the relief and the authority relied upon.
(b)
Answers to motions.
Unless otherwise provided, a party may file a written response to a motion within five days after service of the motion.
(c)
Motions for procedural orders.
Motions for procedural orders, including motions for extensions of time, may be acted on at any time, without awaiting a response thereto. Any party adversely affected by such action may request reconsideration, vacation or modification of the action.
(d)
Dilatory motions.
Frivolous or repetitive motions dealing with the same subject matter shall not be permitted.
§ 171.11
Sanctions.
In the event a party fails to fulfill his obligations under these Rules, the Commission may impose appropriate sanctions including dismissal of the appeal or summary reversal of the decision under appeal. Sanctions may be imposed on the motion of a party or on the Commission's own motion.
§ 171.12
Settlement.
At any time before the Commission has reached a final determination in a proceeding, the parties may request dismissal of the appeal based on a settlement agreement. If, in its view, the settlement is consistent with the public interest, the Commission will dismiss the proceeding.
§ 171.13
Practice before the Commission.
(a)
Practice
—(1)
By non-attorneys.
An individual may appear
pro se
(on his own behalf); a general partner may represent the partnership; a
bona fide
officer of a corporation, trust or association may represent the corporation, trust or association.
(2)
By attorneys.
An attorney-at-law who is admitted to practice before the highest court in any State or territory, or of the District of Columbia, who has not been suspended or disbarred from appearance and practice before the Commission in accordance with the provisions of part 14 of this chapter may represent parties as an attorney in proceedings before the Commission.
(b)
Debarment of counsel or representative during the course of a proceeding.
Whenever, while a proceeding is pending before the Commission, the Commission finds that a person acting as counsel or representative for any party to the proceeding is guilty of contemptuous conduct, the Commission may order that such person be precluded from further acting as counsel or representative in a proceeding subject to these rules. The Commission may suspend the proceedings for a reasonable time for the purpose of enabling the party to obtain other counsel or representative.
(c)
Withdrawal from representation.
Withdrawal from representation of a party will be only by leave of the Commission. Such leave to withdraw may be subject to conditions including submission of an affidavit averring that the party represented has actual knowledge of the withdrawal and providing the name and address of a successor counsel (or representative) or a statement that the represented party has determined to proceed
pro se.
If the party proceeds
pro se,
the statement shall include the address where the party can thereafter be served.
§ 171.14
Waiver of rules.
To prevent undue hardship on any party or for other good cause shown, the Commission may waive any rule in this part in a particular case and may order proceedings in accordance with its direction. Such an order shall be based upon a determination that no party will be prejudiced thereby and that the ends of justice will be served. Reasonable notice will be given to all parties of any action taken pursuant to this paragraph.

# Subpart B—Notice and Effective Date of Final Decisions in Disciplinary, Membership Denial and Registration Actions
§ 171.20
[Reserved]
§ 171.21
Notice of final decision.
(a)
When required.
The National Futures Association shall promptly serve all parties, as well as the Proceedings Clerk and the Secretary of the Commission, with a written notice of any final decision in a disciplinary action, membership denial action or registration action subject to these rules. The notice may be contained in the written decision issued by the National Futures Association.
(b)
Content of the notice.
At a minimum, the notice shall provide the following information:
(1) The names of the parties to the proceeding;
(2) The date the notice was served and the effective date of the decision;
(3) A statement informing the parties of their right to appeal the decision to the Commission pursuant to § 171.28 as well as their right to seek a stay of the effective date of the decision pursuant to § 171.27.
(4) For a disciplinary action:
(i) A statement setting forth the relevant acts of practices engaged in or omitted by the parties to the proceeding;
(ii) A statement setting forth the specific rule or rules of the association violated by the relevant acts or practices or omissions to act of the parties to the proceeding;
(iii) A statement setting forth the penalty imposed and the basis for its imposition.
(5) For a membership action:
(i) The specific grounds for the denial, bar, expulsion, or restriction;
(ii) The findings made concerning those grounds;
(iii) An explanation of the result reached in light of the grounds for ineligibility found and the findings made.
(6) For a registration action:
(i) The statutory disqualification at issue;
(ii) The findings made concerning the statutory disqualification;
(iii) An explanation of the result reached in light of the statutory disqualification shown and the findings made.
(c)
Effect of inadequate notice.
(1) If the National Futures Association issues a notice of a final decision subject to these rules that is not substantially consistent with the requirements of this section, and the record does not establish that the errors therein are harmless, the notice may be stricken. The Commission may act on its own motion or on the motion of a party.
(2) When a notice is struck, the final decision of the National Futures Association shall not be effective until a proper notice is served.
§ 171.22
Effective date of final decisions in disciplinary, membership denial and registration actions.
(a)
General rule.
A final decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary action, membership denial action or registration action shall be effective thirty days after service of the notice described in § 171.21.
(b)
Petitions for stay pending review or for an emergency effective date
—(1)
Stay
pending review.
Within ten days of service of the notice described in § 171.21, any aggrieved party may seek from the Commission a stay pending consideration of the merits of an appeal by filing and serving an appropriate petition. The mere filing of such a petition shall not stay the effective date of the decision. The burden of persuasion shall rest with the party seeking the stay. If the Commission does not grant the petition prior to the effective date of the decision under review, it shall be deemed denied. All petitions for stay must be accompanied by a notice of appeal.
(2)
Emergency effective date.
Within ten days of service of the notice described in § 171.21, the National Futures Association may seek from the Commission an order establishing an emergency effective date for the decision by filing and serving an appropriate petition. The mere filing of such a petition shall not alter the effective date of the decision. The burden of persuasion rests with the National Futures Association. If the Commission does not grant the petition by the date specified as the emergency effective date, it shall be deemed denied.
(3)
Contents of petition for stay and petition for an emergency effective date.
A petition for stay or for an emergency effective date shall be in writing. Material factual allegations shall be supported by an affidavit or other sworn statement unless the parties stipulate that the material facts are not in dispute.
(4)
Response.
Within five days of the service of the petition, a party may file in opposition to the petition. Material factual allegations shall be supported by an affidavit or other sworn statement unless the parties stipulate that the material facts are not in dispute.
(c)
Standards for determining petitions for a stay or an emergency effective date petition.
In reviewing petitions filed under this seciton, the Commission shall consider:
(1) The likelihood that a challenge to the merits of the decision will be successful; and
(2) The likelihood that the denial of the petition would result in irreparable harm to the petitioner; and
(3) The effect a grant of the petition would have on the opposing party; and
(4) The effect a grant or denial of the petition would have on the public interest.
(d)
Expedited consideration.
If, in its view, it is necessary to protect the petitioner's right to a meaningful determination of the issues raised in the petition, the Commission may act upon a petition for a stay or for an emergency effective date prior to its receipt of an opposing party's response. Any party aggrieved by such expedited consideration may seek reconsideration within seven days of service of the decision.
§ 171.23
Notice of appeal.
(a)
Time to file.
Any party aggrieved by the final decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary, membership denial or registration action may, within thirty days of the National Futures Association's service of the notice described in § 171.21, file a notice of appeal with the Proceedings Clerk. The filing of such a notice shall not stay the effective date of the decision.
(b)
Contents.
The notice of appeal shall consist of a brief statement indicating that the party is requesting Commission review of an action of the National Futures Association. It should identify:
(1) The name and address of the person appealing and, if represented, the name and address of his representative;
(2) The case name and docket number of the National Futures Association proceeding; and
(3) The date of the decision.
(c)
Filing fee.
Each notice of appeal must be accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee of $100. This amount may be paid by check, bank draft or money order, payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(d)
Defective notices of appeal.
Notices of appeal that are untimely or not accompanied by the filing fee shall not be accepted by the Proceedings Clerk absent a showing, by motion, of excusable neglect.
§ 171.24
Submission of the record.
Within thirty days after service of a notice of appeal, the National Futures
Association shall file with the Proceedings Clerk two copies of the record of the proceeding (as defined by § 171.2(k)). The record shall be bound as a unit, chronologically indexed and tabbed, and certified as correct by a duly authorized official, agent or employee of the National Futures Asssociation. The National Futures Association shall serve on the party appealing, in lieu of the record, a copy of the index of the record and a copy of any document in the record not previously served on the party appealing. If the party appealing objects to the materials included or excluded in preparing the record, he shall file his objections with his brief on appeal. The Commission may, at any time, direct that an omission or misstatement be corrected and, if necessary, that a supplemental record be prepared and filed.
§ 171.25
Appeal brief.
(a)
Time to file.
Any person who has filed a notice of appeal in accordance with the provisions of § 171.23, shall perfect the appeal by filing an appeal brief with the Proceedings Clerk within thirty days after service of the record by the National Futures Association. The Commission may dismiss any appeal for which an appeal brief is not timely filed.
(b)
Contents.
Each appeal brief submitted to the Commission pursuant to this section shall include, in the order indicated:
(1) A statement of the issues presented for review;
(2) A statement of the case. The statement shall indicate briefly the nature of the case and include a full description of the action being challenged. There shall follow a clear and concise statement of all facts relevant to the consideration of the appeal with appropriate citations to the record;
(3) An argument. The argument shall contain the contentions of the appellant with respect to the issues presented and the reasons supporting those contentions. It shall cite specifically to the relevant authorities and to those parts of the record that support appellant's contentions; and
(4) A conclusion stating the precise relief sought.
(c)
Length of appeal brief.
Without prior leave of the Commission, the appeal brief may not exceed thirty five pages, exclusive of any table of contents, table of cases, index and appendix containing transcripts of testimony, exhibits, rules, regulations or similar materials.
§ 171.26
Answering brief.
(a)
Time for filing answering brief.
Within thirty days after service of the appeal brief, the National Futures Association shall file with the Proceedings Clerk an answering brief.
(b)
Contents of answering brief.
The contents of the answering brief generally shall be consistent with those set forth in § 171.25(b) but may omit a statement of the issues and a statement of the case if the National Futures Association does not dispute the issues or the statement of the case contained in the appeal brief.
(c)
Length of the answering brief.
Without prior leave of the Commission, the answering brief may not exceed thirty five pages, exclusive of any table of contents, table of cases, index and appendix containing transcripts of testimony, exhibits, statutes, rules, regulations or similar materials.
§ 171.27
Limited participation by interested persons.
(a) Upon motion of any interested person or, on its own motion, the Commission may permit, or solicit, limited participation in the proceeding by such interested person. A motion for leave to participate in the proceeding shall be filed promptly, shall identify the interest of that person and shall show why participation in the proceeding by that person would serve the public interest. If the Commission determines that participation would serve the public interest, it shall by order establish a supplementary briefing schedule for the interested person and the parties to the proceeding.
(b) For purposes of this subsection,
interested person
shall include parties and any other persons who might be adversely affected or aggrieved by the outcome of a proceeding; their officers, agents, employees, associates, affiliates, attorneys, accountants or other representatives; and any other person
having a direct or indirect pecuniary or other interest in the outcome of a proceeding.
§ 171.28
Participation by Commission staff.
The Division of Enforcement, the Market Participants Division, the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Division of Market Oversight, or the Division of Data may participate in any proceeding by filing a notice of appearance. Such a notice shall be filed and served on or before the twentieth day following the date of service of its brief by the National Futures Association. The Commission shall by order establish a supplementary briefing schedule for the Commission staff and other parties to the proceeding. If it concludes that participation of the Commission staff will not serve the public interest, the Commission shall prohibit further participation.
[55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71821, Sept. 4, 2024]

# Subpart C—Commission Review of Final Decisions in Disciplinary, Membership Denial and Registration Actions
§ 171.30
Scope of review.
On review, the Commission may, in its discretion and after appropriate consideration of the notice given to the parties, consider
sua sponte
any issues arising from the record before it and may base its determination thereon. The Commission may also limit its consideration to those issues specifically raised in the parties' briefs, treating all other issues as waived.
§ 171.31
Commission review in the absence of an appeal.
(a)
Request by Commission staff.
At any time prior to the effective date of a final decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary, membership denial or registration action, the Division of Enforcement, the Market Participants Division, the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Division of Market Oversight, or the Division of Data may file and serve a memorandum requesting the Commission to institute review of the National Futures Association proceeding. The filing of such a memorandum shall stay the effective date of the decision at issue for twenty days.
(b)
Response by the National Futures Association.
The National Futures Association may file a response to the memorandum of the Commission staff within fifteen days of the service of the memorandum.
(c)
Commission determination of staff request.
To preserve the status quo while it determines whether review is apropriate, the Commission may extend the stay of the effective date of the decision at issue for an additional 30 days. If the Commission decides to take review, the effective date of the decision at issue shall be stayed pending the decision of the Commission, unless otherwise ordered. The Commission shall by order establish the procedure for submission of both the record of the proceeding and the briefs of the parties to the proceeding.
(d)
Commission review on its own motion.
At any time prior to the effective date of a final decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary, membership denial or registration action, the Commission may take review of a decision by issuing an appropriate order. If the Commission determines that it is appropriate to take review on its own motion, it shall by order establish the procedure for submission of both the record of the proceeding and the briefs of the parties.
[55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71821, Sept. 4, 2024]
§ 171.32
Oral argument.
(a)
On motion of Commission.
On its own motion, the Commission may, in its discretion, hear oral argument in a proceeding.
(b)
On request of party.
Any party may file with the Proceedings Clerk a request in writing for the opportunity to present oral argument before the Commission, which the Commission may, in its discretion, grant or deny. A request under this paragraph must be filed concurrently with the party's brief.
(c)
Reporting and transcription.
Oral argument before the Commission will
be recorded and transcribed unless the Commission directs otherwise. In the event the Commission affords the parties the opportunity to present oral argument before the Commission, the oral argument will proceed in accordance with the provisions of § 10.103(b) of this chapter.
§ 171.33
Final decision by the Commission.
(a)
Opinion and order.
Upon review, the Commission may affirm, modify, set aside, or remand for further proceedings, in whole or in part, the decision of the National Futures Association. The Commission's decision will be contained in its opinion and order which will be based upon the record before it, including the record of the registered futures association proceeding, briefs submitted to the Commission by the parties and any oral argument made in accordance with § 171.32. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the opinion and order will constitute the final decision of the Commission, effective upon service on the parties. In the event the Commission is equally divided as to its decision, the decision of the National Futures Association shall be affirmed without a Commission opinion.
(b)
Order of summary affirmance.
If the Commission finds that the result reached in the decision of the National Futures Association is substantially correct and that none of the arguments on appeal made by the appellant raise important questions of law or policy, the Commission may, by appropriate order, summarily affirm the decision without opinion. The decision of the National Futures Association shall constitute the Commission's final decision, effective upon service. Unless the Commission expressly indicates otherwise in its order, an order of summary affirmance does not reflect a Commission determination to adopt the rationale of the National Futures Association, and neither the order of summary affirmance nor the underlying order shall serve as Commission precedent in other proceedings.
§ 171.34
Standards of review.
(a)
Disciplinary actions.
In reviewing a final decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary action, the Commission shall affirm the order of the National Futures Association, unless the Commission finds that:
(1) The proceedings were not conducted in a manner consistent with fundamental fairness;
(2) The proceedings were not conducted in a manner consistent with the rules of the National Futures Association;
(3) The weight of the evidence does not support the findings of the National Futures Association concerning the relevant acts or practices engaged in or omitted;
(4) The determination that the acts or practices engaged in or omitted violated rules of the National Futures Association does not rest on a reasonable interpretation of the rules at issue;
(5) The National Futures Association's application of its rules is not consistent with the purposes of the Act;
(6) The National Futures Association's choice of sanction is excessive or oppressive in light of the violations found having due regard for the public interest.
(b)
Membership denial actions.
In reviewing a final decision of the National Futures Association in a membership denial action, the Commission shall affirm the order of the National Futures Association, unless the Commission finds that:
(1) The proceedings were not conducted in a manner consistent with fundamental fairness;
(2) The proceedings were not conducted in a manner consistent with the rules of the National Futures Association;
(3) The weight of the evidence does not support the findings made or adopted in the final decision;
(4) The conclusion of the National Futures Association is not consistent with the purposes of the Act.
(c)
Registration actions.
In reviewing a decision of the National Futures Association in a registration action, the Commission shall affirm the order of the National Futures Association unless the Commission finds that:
(1) The proceedings were not conducted in a manner consistent with fundamental fairness;
(2) The proceedings were not conducted in a manner consistent with the rules of the National Futures Association;
(3) The weight of the evidence does not support the findings made or adopted in the final decision;
(4) The conclusion of the National Futures Association is not consistent with the purposes of the Act.

# Subpart D—Commission Review of Decisions by the National Futures Association In Member Responsibility Actions
§ 171.40
Notice of the commencement of a member responsibility action.
The notice of a Member Responsibility Action provided by the National Futures Association pursuant to its rules shall advise the affected parties of their right to petition the Commission pursuant to § 171.41 to stay the effective date of the action pending a hearing before the National Futures Association on the factual issues relevant to the suspension, restriction or remedial action ordered.
§ 171.41
Petition for a stay of effective date of a member responsibility action pending a hearing by the National Futures Association.
(a)
Time to file.
Within ten days after the National Futures Association serves the notice required by § 171.40, any party aggrieved by the National Futures Association's determination that the member responsibility action should be effective prior to the opportunity for a hearing on the factual issues relevant to the suspension, restriction or remedial action imposed may petition the Commission to stay its effectiveness pending completion of further proceedings by the National Futures Association. The burden of persuasion shall rest with the party seeking the stay.
(b)
Content.
A petition for stay shall meet the content requirements set forth in § 171.22(b)(3).
(c)
Response.
A response may be filed by the National Futures Association in accordance with § 171.22(b)(4).
(d)
Standards for granting petition for stay.
In reviewing petitions to stay the effectiveness of the member responsibility action pending completion of further proceedings, the Commission shall consider:
(1) Whether, in the circumstances presented, the notice and opportunity for a hearing provided by the National Futures Association are consistent with principles of fundamental fairness; and
(2) The likelihood that the denial of the petition would result in irreparable harm to petitioner; and
(3) The effect a grant of the petition would have on the interests of the National Futures Association; and
(4) The effect a grant or denial of the petition would have on the public interest.
(e) If the suspension, restriction or remedial action imposed by the National Futures Assocation in a member responsibility action is effective at the time a petition for a stay is filed with the Commission, the Commission shall not delay its decision on the petition to await the receipt of the National Futures Association's response. If the action is not effective at the time the petition is filed, the Commission will not act upon the petition prior to the receipt of a response from the National Futures Association unless, in its view, expedited action on the petition is necessary to protect petitioner's right to a meaningful determination of the right to a stay. If the Commission grants the petition prior to the receipt of the response of the National Futures Association, the association may seek reconsideration of the Commission's action within seven days of service of the decision.
(f)
Proceedings following Commission disposition.
If the petition for a stay is denied, the National Futures Association shall continue its action in accordance with the applicable rules of the association. If the petition for a stay is granted, the action shall be remanded to the National Futures Association for further proceedings as provided in the Commission's decision. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, a stay issued pursuant to this section shall not deprive the National Futures Association of the authority, after conducting a hearing under the appropriate rules of the association, to
make the suspension, restriction or remedial action ordered in the member responsibility action immediately effective at the time a final decision is issued.
§ 171.42
Notice of a final decision of the National Futures Association in a member responsibility action.
(a)
When required.
The National Futures Association shall promptly serve all parties, as well as the Proceeding Clerk and Secretary of the Commission, with a written notice of any final decision in a member responsibility action. The notice may be contained in the written decision issued by the National Futures Association. If the National Futures Association determines that the decision shall be effective upon issuance, in addition to serving a written notice, it shall also contact the parties and the Proceedings Clerk by telephone to inform them of its determination.
(b)
Contents of the written notice.
At a minimum, the notice shall provide the following information:
(1) The name of the parties to the proceeding;
(2) The date the notice was served and the effective date of the decision;
(3) A statement informing the parties of their right to appeal the decision to the Commission pursuant to § 171.44 as well as their right to seek a stay of the decision pending Commission consideration of their appeal pursuant to § 171.43;
(4) A description of the action taken and the reasons for the action;
(5) Findings of fact and conclusions of law on all issues relevant to its decision;
(6) A determination of the appropriate relief based on the findings and conclusions.
§ 171.43
Petition for a stay of the effective date of a final decision of the National Futures Association in a member responsibility action.
(a)
Filing the petition.
Within ten days of the service of the notice described in § 171.42, any aggrived party may seek from the Commission a stay of the effective date of the decision of the National Futures Association pending consideration of the merits of an appeal by filing and serving an appropriate petition. The mere filing of such a petition shall not stay the effective date of the decision. The burden of persuasion shall rest with the party seeking the stay.
(b)
Contents.
A petition for a stay shall be in writing. Material factual allegations shall be supported by an affidavit or other sworn statement unless the parties stipulate that the material facts are not in dispute.
(c)
Response.
Within five days of the service of the petition, the National Futures Association may file an opposition to the petition. Material factual allegations shall be supported by an affidavit or other sworn statement unless the parties stipulate that the material facts are not in dispute.
(d)
Standards for determining petitions for a stay.
In reviewing petitions filed under this section, the Commission shall consider:
(1) The likelihood that petitioner's challenge to the merits of the decision will be successful; and
(2) The likelihood that the denial of the petition would result in irreparable harm to the petitioner; and
(3) The effect a grant of the petition would have on the National Futures Association; and
(4) The effect a grant or denial of the petition would have on the public interest.
(e)
Expedited consideration.
If the suspension, restriction or remedial action imposed by the National Futures Association in a member responsibility action is effective at the time a petition for a stay is filed with the Commission, the Commission shall not delay its decision on the petition to await the receipt of the National Futures Association's response. If the decision is not effective at the time the petition is filed, the Commission will not act upon the petition prior to the receipt of a response from the National Futures Association unless, in its view, expedited action on the petition is necessary to protect petitioner's right to a meaningful determination of the right to a
stay. If the Commission grants the petition prior to the receipt of the response of the National Futures Association, the association may seek reconsideration of the Commission's action within seven days of service of the decision.
§ 171.44
Notice of appeal.
(a)
Time to file.
Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the National Futures Association in a member responsibility action may, within thirty days of the service of the notice described in § 171.42, file with the Proceedings Clerk and serve on the National Futures Association a notice of appeal. The filing of such a notice shall not stay the effective date of the decision.
(b)
Contents.
The notice of appeal shall meet the content requirements of § 171.23(b).
(c)
Filing fee.
Each notice of appeal must be accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee of $100. This amount may be paid by check, bank draft or money order, payable to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(d)
Defective notices of appeal.
Notices of appeal that are untimely or not accompanied by the filing fee shall not be accepted by the Proceedings Clerk absent a showing, by motion, of excusable neglect.
§ 171.45
General procedures.
The following procedural rules applicable to review of decisions of the National Futures Association in disciplinary, membership denial and registration actions shall also apply to the review of decisions of the National Futures Association in member responsibility actions:
(a) Section 171.24 Submission of the Record.
(b) Section 171.25 Appeal Brief.
(c) Section 171.26 Answering Brief.
(d) Section 171.27 Limited Participation By Interested Persons.
(e) Section 171.28 Participation By Commission Staff.
(f) Section 171.30 Scope of Review.
(g) Section 171.31 Commission Review In the Absence of An Appeal.
(h) Section 171.32 Oral Argument.
(i) Section 171.33 Final Decision By the Commission.
§ 171.46
Standards of review.
In reviewing the decision of the National Futures Association in a member responsibility action, the Commission shall consider whether:
(a) The proceedings were conducted in a manner consistent with fundamental fairness;
(b) The proceedings were conducted in a manner consistent with the rules of the National Futures Association;
(c) The weight of the evidence supports the findings of the National Futures Association concerning the reasons for the action;
(d) The determination that summary action is necessary to protect the commodity futures markets, customers, or members of the National Futures Association rests on a reasonable interpretation of the NFA rules at issue;
(e) The National Futures Association's application of its rules is consistent with the purposes of the Act;
(f) In light of the findings of the National Futures Association concerning the reasons for the action and the public interest, the suspension, restriction or remedial action imposed by the National Futures Association is not excessive, oppressive or an abuse of discretion.

# Subpart E—Delegation of Functions
§ 171.50
Delegation to the General Counsel.
(a) The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the General Counsel, or any employee under the General Counsel's supervision as the General Counsel may designate, the authority:
(1) To waive or modify any of the requirements of §§ 171.25, 171.26, 171.27 and to waive or modify any requirement of the part 171 Rules insofar as it pertains to changes in the time permitted for filing, or the form, execution, service and filing of documents;
(2) To enter orders under §§ 171.10, 171.12, 171.21 and 171.31(c);
(3) To decline to accept any notice of appeal, or petition for stay pending review, of matters specified in § 171.1(b) and to so notify the appellant and the registered futures association;
(4) To stay the effective date of a decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary, membership denial or registration action, or a decision relating to such actions issued by the Commission pursuant to these rules, for a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 10 days, when such a stay is necessary to allow the Commission to consider a petition to stay the effective date of such a decision or a motion for similar relief;
(5) To decline to accept any document which has not been filed or perfected as specified in these rules;
(6) To determine motions seeking permission to participate in a proceeding under § 171.27 and to establish the related briefing schedule;
(7) To establish briefing schedules under § 171.28; and
(8) To enter any order which, in his judgment, will facilitate or expedite Commission review of a decision by the National Futures Association in a disciplinary, membership denial or registration action.
(b) Within seven days after service of a ruling issued pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a party may file with the Proceedings Clerk a petition for Commission reconsideration of the ruling. Unless the Commission orders otherwise, the filing of a petition for reconsideration will not operate to stay the effective date of such ruling.
(c) The General Counsel, or his designee, may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) Nothing in this section will be deemed to prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the General Counsel, or his designee, under this section.
[55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 46271, Aug. 25, 1999; 78 FR 1145, Jan. 8, 2013]
Pt. 180

# PART 180—PROHIBITION AGAINST MANIPULATION
Sec.
180.1
Prohibition on the employment, or attempted employment, of manipulative and deceptive devices.
180.2
Prohibition on price manipulation.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6c(a), 9, 12(a)(5) and 15, as amended by Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010); 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552(b), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
76 FR 41410, July 14, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 180.1
Prohibition on the employment, or attempted employment, of manipulative and deceptive devices.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, in connection with any swap, or contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce, or contract for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity, to intentionally or recklessly:
(1) Use or employ, or attempt to use or employ, any manipulative device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;
(2) Make, or attempt to make, any untrue or misleading statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made not untrue or misleading;
(3) Engage, or attempt to engage, in any act, practice, or course of business, which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person; or,
(4) Deliver or cause to be delivered, or attempt to deliver or cause to be delivered, for transmission through the mails or interstate commerce, by any means of communication whatsoever, a false or misleading or inaccurate report concerning crop or market information or conditions that affect or tend to affect the price of any commodity in interstate commerce, knowing, or acting in reckless disregard of the fact that such report is false, misleading or inaccurate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no violation of this subsection shall exist where the person mistakenly transmits, in good faith, false or misleading or inaccurate information to a price reporting service.
(b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to disclose to another person nonpublic information that may be material to the market price, rate, or level of the commodity transaction, except as necessary to make any statement made to the other person in or in connection with the transaction not misleading in any material respect.
(c) Nothing in this section shall affect, or be construed to affect, the applicability of Commodity Exchange Act section 9(a)(2).
§ 180.2
Prohibition on price manipulation.
It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of any swap, or of any commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any registered entity.
Pt. 190

# PART 190—BANKRUPTCY RULES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
190.00
Statutory authority, organization, core concepts, scope, and construction.
190.01
Definitions.
190.02
General.

# Subpart B—Futures Commission Merchant as Debtor
190.03
Notices and proofs of claims.
190.04
Operation of the debtor's estate—customer property.
190.05
Operation of the debtor's estate—general.
190.06
Making and taking delivery under commodity contracts.
190.07
Transfers.
190.08
Calculation of funded net equity.
190.09
Allocation of property and allowance of claims.
190.10
Current records during business as usual.

# Subpart C—Clearing Organization as Debtor
190.11
Scope and purpose of this subpart.
190.12
Required reports and records.
190.13
Prohibition on avoidance of transfers.
190.14
Operation of the estate of the debtor subsequent to the filing date.
190.15
Recovery and wind-down plans; default rules and procedures.
190.16
Delivery.
190.17
Calculation of net equity.
190.18
Treatment of property.
190.19
Support of daily settlement.
Appendix A to Part 190—Customer Proof of Claim Form
Appendix B to Part 190—Special Bankruptcy Distributions

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1a, 2, 6c, 6d, 6g, 7a-1, 12, 12a, 19, and 24; 11 U.S.C. 362, 546, 548, 556, and 761-767, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
86 FR 19421, Apr. 13, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 190.00
Statutory authority, organization, core concepts, scope, and construction.
(a)
Statutory authority.
The Commission has adopted the regulations in this part pursuant to its authority under sections 8a(5) and 20 of the Act. Section 8a(5) provides general rulemaking authority to effectuate the provisions and accomplish the purposes of the Act. Section 20 provides that the Commission may, notwithstanding title 11 of the United States Code, adopt certain rules or regulations governing a proceeding involving a commodity broker that is a debtor under subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Specifically, the Commission is authorized to adopt rules or regulations specifying:
(1) That certain cash, securities, or other property, or commodity contracts, are to be included in or excluded from customer property or member property;
(2) That certain cash, securities, or other property, or commodity contracts, are to be specifically identifiable to a particular customer in a particular capacity;
(3) The method by which the business of the commodity broker is to be conducted or liquidated after the date of the filing of the petition under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, including the payment and allocation of margin with respect to commodity contracts not specifically identifiable to a particular customer pending their orderly liquidation;
(4) Any persons to which customer property and commodity contracts may be transferred under section 766 of the Bankruptcy Code; and
(5) How a customer's net equity is to be determined.
(b)
Organization.
This part is organized into three subparts. This subpart contains general provisions applicable in all cases. Subpart B of this part contains provisions that apply when the debtor is a futures commission merchant (as that term is defined in the Act or Commission regulations). This
includes acting as a foreign futures commission merchant, as defined in section 761(12) of the Bankruptcy Code, but excludes a person that is “notice-registered” as a futures commission merchant pursuant to section 4f(a)(2) of the Act. Subpart C contains provisions that apply when the debtor is registered as a derivatives clearing organization under the Act.
(c)
Core concepts.
The regulations in this part reflect several core concepts. The descriptions of core concepts in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section are subject to the further specific requirements set forth in this part, and the specific requirements in this part should be interpreted and applied consistently with these core concepts.
(1)
Commodity brokers.
Subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code applies to a debtor that is a commodity broker, against which a customer holds a “net equity” claim relating to a commodity contract. This part is limited to a commodity broker that is:
(i) A futures commission merchant; or
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization registered under the Act and § 39.3 of this chapter.
(2)
Account classes.
The Act and Commission regulations in parts 1, 22, and 30 of this chapter provide differing treatment and protections for different types of cleared commodity contracts. This part establishes three account classes that correspond to the different types of accounts that futures commission merchants and clearing organizations are required to maintain under the regulations in the preceding sentence, specifically, the futures account class (including options on futures), the foreign futures account class (including options on foreign futures), and the cleared swaps account class (including cleared options other than options on futures or foreign futures). This part also establishes a fourth account class, the delivery account class (which may be further subdivided as provided in this part), for property held in an account designated within the books and records of the debtor as a delivery account, for effecting delivery under commodity contracts whose terms require settlement via delivery when the commodity contract is held to expiration or, in the case of a cleared option, is exercised.
(3)
Public customers and non-public customers; Commission segregation requirements; member property
—(i)
Public customers and non-public customers.
This part prescribes separate treatment of “public customers” and “non-public customers” (as these terms are defined in § 190.01) within each account class in the event of a proceeding under this part in which the debtor is a futures commission merchant. Public customers of a debtor futures commission merchant are entitled to a priority in the distribution of cash, securities, or other customer property over non-public customers, and both have priority over all other claimants (except for claims relating to the administration of customer property) pursuant to section 766(h) of the Bankruptcy Code.
(A) The cash, securities, or other property held on behalf of the public customers of a futures commission merchant in the futures, foreign futures, or cleared swaps account classes are subject to special segregation requirements imposed under parts 1, 22, and 30 of this chapter for each account class. Although such segregation requirements generally are not applicable to cash, securities, or other property received from or reflected in the futures, foreign futures, or cleared swaps accounts of non-public customers of a futures commission merchant, such transactions and property are customer property within the scope of this part.
(B) While parts 1, 22, and 30 of this chapter do not impose special segregation requirements with respect to treatment of cash, securities, or other property of public customers carried in a delivery account, such property does constitute customer property. Thus, the distinction between public and non-public customers is, given the priority for public customers in section 766(h) of the Bankruptcy Code, relevant for the purpose of making distributions to delivery account class customers pursuant to this part.
(C) Where a provision in this part affords the trustee discretion, that discretion should be exercised in a manner that the trustee determines will best
achieve the overarching goal of protecting public customers as a class by enhancing recoveries for, and mitigating disruptions to, public customers as a class. In seeking to achieve that overarching goal, the trustee has discretion to balance those two sub-goals when they are in tension. Where the trustee is directed to exercise “reasonable efforts” to meet a standard, those efforts should only be less than “best efforts” to the extent that the trustee determines that such an approach would support the foregoing goals.
(ii)
Clearing organization bankruptcies: Member property and customer property other than member property.
For a clearing organization, “customer property” is divided into “member property” and “customer property other than member property.” The term member property is used to identify the cash, securities, or property available to pay the net equity claims of clearing members based on their house account at the clearing organization. Thus, in the event of a proceeding under this part in which the debtor is a clearing organization, the classification of customers as public customers or non-public customers also is relevant, in that each member of the clearing organization will have separate claims against the clearing organization (by account class) with respect to:
(A) Commodity contract transactions cleared for its own account or on behalf of any of its non-public customers (which are cleared in a “house account” at the clearing organization); and
(B) Commodity contract transactions cleared on behalf of any public customers of the clearing member (which are cleared in accounts at the clearing organization that is separate and distinct from house accounts).
(iii)
Preferential assignment among customer classes and account classes for clearing organization bankruptcies.
Section 190.18 is designed to support the interests of public customers of members of a debtor that is a clearing organization.
(A) Certain customer property is preferentially assigned to “customer property other than member property” instead of “member property” to the extent that there is a shortfall in funded balances for members' public customer claims. Moreover, to the extent that there are excess funded balances for members' claims in any customer class/account class combination, that excess is also preferentially assigned to “customer property other than member property” to the extent of any shortfall in funded balances for members' public customer claims.
(B) Where property is assigned to a particular customer class with more than one account class, it is assigned to the account class for which the funded balance percentage is the lowest until there are two account classes with equal funded balance percentages, then to both such account classes, keeping the funded balance percentage the same, and so forth following the analogous approach if the debtor has more than two account classes within the relevant customer class.
(4)
Porting of public customer commodity contract positions.
In a proceeding in which the debtor is a futures commission merchant, this part sets out a policy preference for transferring to another futures commission merchant, or “porting,” open commodity contract positions of the debtor's public customers along with all or a portion of such customers' account equity. Porting mitigates risks to both the customers of the debtor futures commission merchant and to the markets. To facilitate porting, this part addresses the manner in which the debtor's business is to be conducted on and after the filing date, with specific provisions addressing the collection and payment of margin for open commodity contract positions prior to porting.
(5)
Pro rata distribution.
(i) The commodity broker provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, subchapter IV of chapter 7, in particular section 766(h), have long revolved around the principle of pro rata distribution. If there is a shortfall in the cash, securities or other property in a particular account class needed to satisfy the net equity claims of public customers in that account class, the customer property in that account class will be distributed pro rata to those public customers (subject to appendix B of this part).
Any customer property not attributable to a specific account class, or that exceeds the amount needed to pay allowed customer net equity claims in a particular account class, will be distributed to public customers in other account classes so long as there is a shortfall in those other classes. Non-public customers will not receive any distribution of customer property so long as there is any shortfall, in any account class, of customer property needed to satisfy public customer net equity claims.
(ii) The pro rata distribution principle means that, if there is a shortfall of customer property in an account class, all customers within that account class will suffer the same proportional loss relative to their allowed net equity claims. The principle in this paragraph (c)(5)(ii) applies to all customers, including those who post as collateral specifically identifiable property or letters of credit. The pro rata distribution principle is subject to the special distribution provisions set forth in framework 1 in appendix B of this part for cross-margin accounts and framework 2 in appendix B of this part for funds held outside of the U.S. or held in non-U.S. currency.
(6)
Deliveries.
(i) Commodity contracts may have terms that require a customer owning the contract:
(A) To make or take delivery of the underlying commodity if the customer holds the contract to a delivery position; or
(B) In the case of an option on a commodity:
(
1
) To make delivery upon exercise (as the buyer of a put option or seller of a call option); or
(
2
) To take delivery upon exercise (as seller of a put option or buyer of a call option).
(ii) Depending upon the circumstances and relevant market, delivery may be effected via a delivery account, a futures account, a foreign futures account or a cleared swaps account, or, when the commodity subject to delivery is a security, in a securities account (in which case property associated with the delivery held in a securities account is not part of any customer account class for purposes of this part).
(iii) Although commodity contracts with delivery obligations are typically offset before reaching the delivery stage (
i.e.,
prior to triggering bilateral delivery obligations), when delivery obligations do arise, a delivery default could have a disruptive effect on the cash market for the commodity and adversely impact the parties to the transaction. This part therefore sets out special provisions to address open commodity contracts that are settled by delivery, when those positions are nearing or have entered into a delivery position at the time of or after the filing date. The delivery provisions in this part are intended to allow deliveries to be completed in accordance with the rules and established practices for the relevant commodity contract market or clearing organization, as applicable and to the extent permitted under this part.
(iv) In a proceeding in which the debtor is a futures commission merchant, the delivery provisions in this part reflect policy preferences to:
(A) Liquidate commodity contracts that settle via delivery before they move into a delivery position; and
(B) When such contracts are in a delivery position, to allow delivery to occur, where practicable, outside administration of the debtor's estate.
(v) The delivery provisions in this part apply to any commodity that is subject to delivery under a commodity contract, as the term commodity is defined in section of 1a(9) of the Act, whether the commodity itself is tangible or intangible, including agricultural commodities as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter, other non-financial commodities (such as metals or energy commodities) covered by the definition of exempt commodity in section 1a(20) of the Act, and commodities that are financial in nature (such as foreign currencies) covered by the definition of excluded commodity in section 1a(19) of the Act. The delivery provisions also apply to virtual currencies that are subject to delivery under a commodity contract.
(d)
Scope
—(1)
Proceedings
—(i)
Certain commodity broker proceedings under subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy
Code.
(A) Section 101(6) of the Bankruptcy Code recognizes “futures commission merchants” and “foreign futures commission merchants,” as those terms are defined in section 761(12) of the Bankruptcy Code, as separate categories of commodity broker. The definition of commodity broker in § 190.01, as it applies to a commodity broker that is a futures commission merchant under the Act, also covers foreign futures commission merchants because a foreign futures commission merchant is required to register as a futures commission merchant under the Act.
(B) Section 101(6) of the Bankruptcy Code recognizes “commodity options dealers,” and “leverage transaction merchants” as defined in sections 761(6) and (13) of the Bankruptcy Code, as separate categories of commodity brokers. There are no commodity options dealers or leverage transaction merchants as of December 8, 2020.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# )(1)(
i

# )(B).
The Commission intends to adopt rules with respect to commodity options dealers or leverage transaction merchants, respectively, at such time as an entity registers as such.
(ii)
Futures commission merchants subject to a SIPA proceeding.
Pursuant to section 7(b) of SIPA, 15 U.S.C. 78fff-1(b), the trustee in a SIPA proceeding, where the debtor also is a commodity broker, has the same duties as a trustee in a proceeding under subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, to the extent consistent with the provisions of SIPA or as otherwise ordered by the court. This part therefore also applies to a proceeding commenced under SIPA with respect to a debtor that is registered as a broker or dealer under section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 when the debtor also is a futures commission merchant.
(iii)
Commodity brokers subject to an FDIC proceeding.
Section 5390(m)(1)(B) of title 12 of the United States Code provides that the FDIC must apply the provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code in respect of the distribution of customer property and member property in connection with the liquidation of a covered financial company or a bridge financial company (as those terms are defined in section 5381(a) of title 12) that is a commodity broker as if such person were a debtor for purposes of subchapter IV, except as specifically provided in section 5390 of title 12. This part therefore shall serve as guidance as to such distribution of property in a proceeding in which the FDIC is acting as a receiver pursuant to title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act with respect to a covered financial company or bridge financial company that is a commodity broker whose liquidation otherwise would be administered by a trustee under subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code.
(2)
Account class and implied trust limitations.
(i) The trustee may not recognize any account class that is not one of the account classes enumerated in § 190.01.
(ii) No property that would otherwise be included in customer property, as defined in § 190.01, shall be excluded from customer property because such property is considered to be held in a constructive, resulting, or other trust that is implied in equity.
(3)
Commodity contract exclusions.
For purposes of this part, the following are excluded from the term “commodity contract”:
(i) Options on commodities (including swaps subject to regulation under part 32 of this chapter) that are not centrally cleared by a clearing organization or foreign clearing organization.
(ii) Transactions, contracts or agreements that are classified as “forward contracts” under the Act pursuant to the exclusion from the term “future delivery” set out in section 1a(27) of the Act or the exclusion from the definition of a “swap” under section 1a(47)(B)(ii) of the Act, in each case that are not centrally cleared by a clearing organization or foreign clearing organization.
(iii) Security futures products as defined in section 1a(45) of the Act when such products are held in a securities account.
(iv) Any off-exchange retail foreign currency transaction, contract or agreement described in sections 2(c)(2)(B) or (C) of the Act.
(v) Any security-based swap or other security (as defined in section 3 of the Exchange Act), but a security futures product or a mixed swap (as defined in
1a(47)(D) of the Act) that is, in either case, carried in an account for which there is a corresponding account class under this part is not so excluded.
(vi) Any off-exchange retail commodity transaction, contract or agreement described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act, unless such transaction, contract or agreement is traded on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or foreign board of trade as, or as if, such transaction, contract, or agreement is a futures contract.
(e)
Construction.
(1) A reference in this part to a specific section of a Federal statute or specific regulation refers to such section or regulation as the same may be amended or superseded.
(2) Where they differ, the definitions set forth in § 190.01 shall be used instead of defined terms set forth in section 761 of the Bankruptcy Code. In many cases, these definitions are based on definitions in parts 1, 22, and 30 of this chapter. Notwithstanding the use of different defined terms, the regulations in this part are intended to be consistent with the provisions and objectives of subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code.
(3) In the context of portfolio margining and cross margining programs, commodity contracts and associated collateral will be treated as part of the account class in which, consistent with part 1, 22, 30, or 39 of this chapter, or Commission Order, they are held.
(i) Thus, as noted in paragraph (2) of the definition of
account class
in § 190.01, where open commodity contracts (and associated collateral) that would be attributable to one account class are, instead, commingled with the commodity contracts (and associated collateral) in a second account class (the “home field”), then the trustee must treat all such commodity contracts and collateral as part of, and consistent with the regulations applicable to, the second account class.
(ii) The concept in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, that the rules of the “home field” will apply, also pertains to securities positions that are, pursuant to an approved cross margining program, held in a commodities account class (in which case the rules of that commodities account class will apply) and to commodities positions that are, pursuant to an approved cross-margining program, held in a securities account (in which case, the rules of the securities account will apply, consistent with section 16(2)(b)(ii) of SIPA, 15 U.S.C. 78lll(2)(b)(ii)).
§ 190.01
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Account class:
(1) Means one or more of each of the following types of accounts maintained by a futures commission merchant or clearing organization (as applicable), each type of which must be recognized as a separate account class by the trustee:
(i)
Futures account
means:
(A) With respect to public customers, the same definition as set forth in § 1.3 of this chapter.
(B) With respect to non-public customers:
(
1
) With respect to a futures commission merchant, an account maintained on the books and records of the futures commission merchant for the purpose of accounting for a person's transactions in futures or options on futures contracts executed on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market registered under the Act (and related cash, securities, or other property); and
(
2
) With respect to a clearing organization, an account maintained on the books and records of the clearing organization for the purpose of accounting for transactions in futures or options on futures contracts cleared or settled by the clearing organization for a member or a member's non-public customers (and related cash, securities, or other property).
(ii)
Foreign futures account
means:
(A) With respect to public customers:
(
1
) With respect to a futures commission merchant, a 30.7 account, as such term is defined in § 30.1(g) of this chapter; and
(
2
) With respect to a clearing organization, an account maintained on the books and records of the clearing organization for the purpose of accounting for transactions in futures or options on futures contracts executed on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade, cleared or settled by the
clearing organization for a member that is a futures commission merchant (and related cash, securities or other property), on behalf of that member's 30.7 customers (as that latter term is defined in § 30.1(f) of this chapter).
(B) With respect to non-public customers:
(
1
) With respect to a futures commission merchant, an account maintained on the books and records of the futures commission merchant for the purpose of accounting for a person's transactions in futures or options on futures contracts executed on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade (and related cash, securities, or other property); and
(
2
) With respect to a clearing organization, an account maintained on the books and records of the clearing organization for the purpose of accounting for transactions in futures or options on futures contracts executed on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade, cleared or settled by the clearing organization for a member or a member's non-public customers (and related cash, securities, or other property).
(iii)
Cleared swaps account
means:
(A) With respect to public customers, a cleared swaps customer account, as such term is defined in § 22.1 of this chapter.
(B) With respect to non-public customers:
(
1
) With respect to a futures commission merchant, an account maintained on the books and records of the futures commission merchant for the purpose of accounting for a person's transactions in cleared swaps (as defined in § 22.1 of this chapter) (and related cash, securities, or other property); and
(
2
) With respect to a clearing organization, an account maintained on the books and records of the clearing organization for the purpose of accounting for transactions in cleared swaps (as defined in § 22.1 of this chapter) (or in other contracts permitted to be cleared in the account) cleared or settled by the clearing organization for a member or a member's non-public customers (including any property related thereto).
(iv)(A)
Delivery account
means (for both public and non-public customers, considered separately):
(
1
) An account maintained on the books and records of a futures commission merchant for the purpose of accounting for the making or taking of delivery under commodity contracts whose terms require settlement by delivery of a commodity, and which is designated as a delivery account on the books and records of the futures commission merchant; and
(
2
) An account maintained on the books and records of a clearing organization for a clearing member (or a customer of a clearing member) for the purpose of accounting for the making or taking of delivery under commodity contracts whose terms require settlement by delivery of a commodity, as well as any account in which the clearing organization holds physical delivery property represented by electronic title documents or otherwise existing in an electronic (dematerialized) form in its capacity as a central depository, in each case where the account is designated as a delivery account on the books and the records of the clearing organization.
(B) The delivery account class is further divided into a “physical delivery account class” and a “cash delivery account class,” as provided in § 190.06(b), each of which shall be recognized as a separate class of account by the trustee.
(2)(i) If open commodity contracts that would otherwise be attributable to one account class (and any property margining, guaranteeing, securing or accruing in respect of such commodity contracts) are, pursuant to a Commission rule, regulation, or order, or a clearing organization rule approved in accordance with § 39.15(b)(2) of this chapter, held separately from other commodity contracts and property in that account class and are commingled with the commodity contracts and property of another account class, then the trustee must treat the former commodity contracts (and any property margining, guaranteeing, securing, or accruing in respect of such commodity contracts), for purposes of this part, as being held in an account of the latter account class.
(ii) The principle in paragraph (2)(i) of this definition will be applied to securities positions and associated collateral held in a commodity account class pursuant to a cross margining program approved by the Commission (and thus treated as part of that commodity account class) and to commodity positions and associated collateral held in a securities account pursuant to a cross margining program approved by the Commission (and thus treated as part of the securities account).
(3) For the purpose of this definition, a commodity broker is considered to maintain an account for another person by establishing internal books and records in which it records the person's commodity contracts and cash, securities or other property received from or on behalf of such person or accruing to the credit of such person's account, and related activity (such as liquidation of commodity contract positions or adjustments to reflect mark-to-market gains or losses on commodity contract positions), regardless whether the commodity broker has kept such books and records current or accurate.
Act
means the Commodity Exchange Act.
Bankruptcy Code
means, except as the context of the regulations in this part otherwise requires, those provisions of title 11 of the United States Code relating to ordinary bankruptcies (chapters 1 through 5) and liquidations (chapter 7 with the exception of subchapters III and V), together with the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure relating thereto.
Business day
means weekdays, not including Federal holidays as established annually by 5 U.S.C. 6103. A business day begins at 8:00 a.m. in Washington, DC, and ends at 7:59:59 a.m. on the next day that is a business day.
Calendar day
means the time from midnight to midnight in Washington, DC.
Cash delivery account class
has the meaning set forth under
account class
in this section.
Cash delivery property
means any cash or cash equivalents recorded in a delivery account that is, as of the filing date:
(1) Credited to such account to pay for receipt of delivery of a commodity under a commodity contract;
(2) Credited to such account to collateralize or guarantee an obligation to make or take delivery of a commodity under a commodity contract; or
(3) Has been credited to such account as payment received in exchange for making delivery of a commodity under a commodity contract. It also includes property in the form of commodities that have been delivered after the filing date in exchange for cash or cash equivalents held in a delivery account as of the filing date. The cash or cash equivalents must be identified on the books and the records of the debtor as having been received, from or for the account of a particular customer, on or after seven calendar days before the relevant:
(i) First notice date in the case of a futures contract; or
(ii) Exercise date in the case of a (cleared) option.
(4) Cash delivery property also includes any cash transferred by a customer to the trustee on or after the filing date for the purpose of paying for delivery, consistent with § 190.06(a)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
).
(5) In the case of a contract where one fiat currency is exchanged for another fiat currency, each such currency, to the extent that it is recorded in a delivery account, will be considered cash delivery property.
Cash equivalents
means assets, other than United States dollar cash, that are highly liquid such that they may be converted into United States dollar cash within one business day without material discount in value.
Cleared swaps account
has the meaning set forth under
account class
in this section.
Clearing organization
means a derivatives clearing organization that is registered with the Commission as such under the Act.
Commodity broker
means any person that is:
(1) A futures commission merchant under the Act, but excludes a person that is “notice-registered” as a futures commission merchant under section 4f(a)(2) of the Act; or
(2) A clearing organization, in each case with respect to which there is a “customer” as that term is defined in this section.
Commodity contract
means:
(1) A futures or options on futures contract executed on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market;
(2) A futures or option on futures contract executed on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade;
(3) A swap as defined in section 1a(47) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter, that is directly or indirectly submitted to and cleared by a clearing organization and which is thus a cleared swap as that term is defined in section 1a(7) of the Act and § 22.1 of this chapter; or
(4) Any other contract that is a swap for purposes of this part under the definition in this section and is submitted to and cleared by a clearing organization.
(5) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, a security futures product as defined in section 1a(45) of the Act is not a commodity contract for purposes of this part when such contract is held in a securities account. Moreover, a contract, agreement, or transaction described in § 190.00(d)(3) as excluded from the term “commodity contract” is excluded from this definition.
Commodity contract account
means:
(1) A futures account, foreign futures account, cleared swaps account, or delivery account; or
(2) If the debtor is a futures commission merchant, for purposes of identifying customer property for the foreign futures account class (subject to § 190.09(a)(1)), an account maintained for the debtor by a foreign clearing organization or a foreign futures intermediary reflecting futures or options on futures executed on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade, including any account maintained on behalf of the debtor's public customers.
Court
means the court having jurisdiction over the debtor's estate.
Cover
has the meaning set forth in § 1.17(j) of this chapter.
Customer
means:
(1)(i) With respect to a futures commission merchant as debtor (including a foreign futures commission merchant as that term is defined in section 761(12) of the Bankruptcy Code), the meaning set forth in sections 761(9)(A) and (B) of the Bankruptcy Code.
(ii) With respect to a clearing organization as debtor, the meaning set forth in section 761(9)(D) of the Bankruptcy Code.
(2) The term customer includes the owner of a portfolio cross-margining account covering commodity contracts and related positions in securities (as defined in section 3 of the Exchange Act) that is carried as a futures account or cleared swaps customer account pursuant to an appropriate rule, regulation, or order of the Commission.
Customer claim of record
means a customer claim that is determinable solely by reference to the records of the debtor.
Customer class
means each of the following two classes of customers, which must be recognized as separate classes by the trustee: Public customers and non-public customers;
provided, however,
that when the debtor is a clearing organization the references to public customers and non-public customers are based on the classification of customers of, and in relation to, the members of the clearing organization.
Customer property
and
customer estate
are used interchangeably to mean the property subject to pro rata distribution in a commodity broker bankruptcy in the priority set forth in sections 766(h) or (i), as applicable, of the Bankruptcy Code, and includes cash, securities, and other property as set forth in § 190.09(a).
Debtor
means a person with respect to which a proceeding is commenced under subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code or under SIPA, or for which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is appointed as a receiver pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5382,
provided, however,
that this part applies only to such a proceeding if the debtor is a commodity broker as defined in this section.
Delivery account
has the meaning set forth under
account class
in this section.
Distribution
of property to a customer includes transfer of property on the customer's behalf, return of property to a customer, as well as distributions to a customer of valuable property that
is different than the property posted by that customer.
Equity
means the amount calculated as equity in accordance with § 190.08(b)(1).
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Filing date
means the date a petition under the Bankruptcy Code or application under SIPA commencing a proceeding is filed or on which the FDIC is appointed as a receiver pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5382(a).
Final net equity determination date
means the latest of:
(1) The day immediately following the day on which all commodity contracts held by or for the account of customers of the debtor have been transferred, liquidated, or satisfied by exercise or delivery;
(2) The day immediately following the day on which all property other than commodity contracts held for the account of customers has been transferred, returned or liquidated;
(3) The bar date for filing customer proofs of claim as determined by rule 3002(c) of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, the expiration of the six-month period imposed pursuant to section 8(a)(3) of SIPA, or such other date (whether earlier or later) set by the court (or, in the case of the FDIC acting as a receiver pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5382(a), the deadline set by the FDIC pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(a)(2)(B); or
(4) The day following the allowance (by the trustee or by the bankruptcy court) or disallowance (by the bankruptcy court) of all disputed customer net equity claims.
Foreign board of trade
has the same meaning as set forth in § 1.3 of this chapter.
Foreign clearing organization
means a clearing house, clearing association, clearing corporation or similar entity, facility, or organization clears and settles transactions in futures or options on futures executed on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade.
Foreign future
shall have the same meaning as that set forth in section 761(11) of the Bankruptcy Code.
Foreign futures account
has the meaning set forth under
account class
in this section.
Foreign futures commission merchant
shall have the same meaning as that set forth in section 761(12) of the Bankruptcy Code.
Foreign futures intermediary
refers to a foreign futures and options broker, as such term is defined in § 30.1(e) of this chapter, acting as an intermediary for foreign futures contracts between a foreign futures commission merchant and a foreign clearing organization.
Funded balance
means the amount calculated as funded balance in accordance with § 190.08(c) and, as applicable, § 190.17(d).
Funded net equity
means, for purposes of subpart B of this part, the amount calculated as funded net equity in accordance with § 190.08(a), and for purposes of subpart C of this part, the amount calculated as funded net equity in accordance with § 190.17(c).
Futures
and
futures contract
are used interchangeably to mean any contract for the purchase or sale of a commodity (as defined in section 1a(9) of the Act) for future delivery that is executed on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade. The term also covers, for purposes of this part:
(1) Any transaction, contract or agreement described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Act and traded on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or foreign board of trade, to the extent not covered by the foregoing definition; and
(2) Any transaction, contract, or agreement that is classified as a “forward contract” under the Act pursuant to the exclusion from the term “future delivery” set out in section 1a(27) of the Act or the exclusion from the definition of a “swap” under section 1a(47)(B)(ii) of the Act, provided that such transaction, contract, or agreement is traded on or subject to the rules of a designated contract market or foreign board of trade and is cleared by, respectively, a clearing organization or foreign clearing organization the same as if it were a futures contract.
Futures account
has the meaning set forth under
account class
in this section.
House account
means, in the case of a clearing organization, any commodity contract account of a member at such clearing organization maintained to reflect trades for the member's own account or for any non-public customer of such member.
In-the-money
means:
(1) With respect to a call option, when the value of the underlying interest (such as a commodity or futures contract) which is the subject of the option exceeds the strike price of the option; and
(2) With respect to a put option, when the value of the underlying interest (such as a commodity or futures contract) which is the subject of the option is exceeded by the strike price of the option.
Joint account
means any commodity contract account held by more than one person.
Member property
means, in connection with a clearing organization bankruptcy, the property which may be used to pay that portion of the net equity claim of a member which is based on the member's house account at the clearing organization, including any claims on behalf of non-public customers of the member.
Net equity
means, for purposes of subpart B of this part, the amount calculated as net equity in accordance with § 190.08(b), and for purposes of subpart C of this part, the amount calculated as net equity in accordance with § 190.17(b).
Non-public customer
means:
(1) With respect to a futures commission merchant, any customer that is not a public customer; and
(2) With respect to a clearing organization, any person whose account carried on the books and records of:
(i) A member of the clearing organization that is a futures commission merchant, is classified as a proprietary account under § 1.3 of this chapter (in the case of the futures or foreign futures account class) or as a cleared swaps proprietary account under § 22.1 of this chapter (in the case of the cleared swaps account class); or
(ii) A member of the clearing organization that is a foreign broker, is classified or treated as proprietary under and for purposes of:
(A) The rules of the clearing organization; or
(B) The jurisdiction of incorporation of such member.
Open commodity contract
means a commodity contract which has been established in fact and which has not expired, been redeemed, been fulfilled by delivery or exercise, or been offset (
i.e.,
liquidated) by another commodity contract.
Order for relief
has the same meaning set forth in section 301 of the Bankruptcy Code, in the case of the filing of a voluntary bankruptcy petition, and means the entry of an order granting relief under section 303 of the Bankruptcy Code in an involuntary case. It also means, where applicable, the issuance of a protective decree under section 5(b)(1) of SIPA or the appointment of the FDIC as receiver pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5382(a)(1)(A).
Person
means any individual, association, partnership, corporation, trust, or other form of legal entity.
Physical delivery account class
has the meaning set forth under
account class
in this section.
Physical delivery property
means:
(1)
In general.
A commodity, whether tangible or intangible, held in a form that can be delivered to meet and fulfill delivery obligations under a commodity contract that settles via delivery if held to a delivery position (as described in § 190.06(a)(1)), including warehouse receipts, other documents of title, or shipping certificates (including electronic versions of any of the foregoing) for the commodity, or the commodity itself:
(i) That the debtor holds for the account of a customer for the purpose of making delivery of such commodity on the customer's behalf, which as of the filing date or thereafter, can be identified on the books and records of the debtor as held in a delivery account for the benefit of such customer. Cash or cash equivalents received after the filing date in exchange for delivery of such physical delivery property shall also constitute physical delivery property;
(ii) That the debtor holds for the account of a customer and that the customer received or acquired by taking delivery under an expired or exercised commodity contract and which, as of the filing date or thereafter, can be identified on the books and records of the debtor as held in a delivery account for the benefit of such customer, regardless how long such property has been held in such account; or
(iii) Where property that the debtor holds in a futures account, foreign futures account, or cleared swaps account, or, if the commodity is a security, in a securities account, would meet the criteria listed in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition, but for the fact of being held in such account rather than a delivery account, such property will be considered physical delivery property solely for purposes of the obligations to make or take delivery of physical delivery property pursuant to § 190.06.
(iv) Commodities or documents of title that are not held by the debtor and are delivered or received by a customer in accordance with § 190.06(a)(2) (or in accordance with § 190.06(a)(2) in conjunction with § 190.16(a) if the debtor is a clearing organization) to fulfill a customer's delivery obligation under a commodity contract will be considered physical delivery property solely for purposes of the obligations to make or take delivery of physical delivery property pursuant to § 190.06. As this property is held outside of the debtor's estate, it is not subject to pro rata distribution.
(2)
Special cases.
(i) In the case of a contract where one fiat currency is exchanged for another fiat currency, neither such currency, to the extent that it is recorded in a delivery account, will be considered physical delivery property.
(ii) In a case where the final settlement price is negative,
i.e.,
where the party obliged to deliver physical delivery property under an expiring futures contract or an expired options contract is also obliged to make a cash payment to the buyer, such cash or cash equivalents constitute physical delivery property.
Primary liquidation date
means the first business day immediately following the day on which all commodity contracts (including any commodity contracts that are specifically identifiable property) have been liquidated or transferred.
Public customer
means:
(1) With respect to a futures commission merchant and in relation to:
(i) The futures account class, a futures customer as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter whose futures account is subject to the segregation requirements of section 4d(a) of the Act and the regulations in this chapter that implement section 4d(a), including as applicable §§ 1.20 through 1.30 of this chapter;
(ii) The foreign futures account class, a 30.7 customer as defined in § 30.1 of this chapter whose foreign futures accounts is subject to the segregation requirements of § 30.7 of this chapter;
(iii) The cleared swaps account class, a Cleared Swaps Customer as defined in § 22.1 of this chapter whose cleared swaps account is subject to the segregation requirements of part 22 of this chapter; and
(iv) The delivery account class, a customer that is or would be classified as a public customer if the property reflected in the customer's delivery account had been held in an account described in paragraph (1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition.
(2) With respect to a clearing organization, any customer of that clearing organization that is not a non-public customer.
Securities account
means, in relation to a futures commission merchant that is registered as a broker or dealer under the Exchange Act, an account maintained by such futures commission merchant in accordance with the requirements of section 15(c)(3) of the Exchange Act and § 240.15c3-3 of this title.
Security
has the meaning set forth in section 101(49) of the Bankruptcy Code.
SIPA
means the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, 15 U.S.C 78aaa
et seq.
Specifically identifiable property
means:
(1)(i) The following property received, acquired, or held by or for the account of the debtor from or for the
futures account, foreign futures account, or cleared swaps account of a customer:
(A) Any security which as of the filing date is:
(
1
)(
i
) Held for the account of a customer;
(
ii
) Registered in such customer's name;
(
iii
) Not transferable by delivery; and
(
iv
) Has a duration or maturity date of more than 180 days; or
(
2
)(
i
) Fully paid;
(
ii
) Non-exempt; and
(
iii
) Identified on the books and records of the debtor as held by the debtor for or on behalf of the commodity contract account of a particular customer for which, according to such books and records as of the filing date, no open commodity contracts were held in the same capacity.
(B) Any warehouse receipt, bill of lading, or other document of title which as of the filing date:
(
1
) Can be identified on the books and records of the debtor as held for the account of a particular customer; and
(
2
) Is not in bearer form and is not otherwise transferable by delivery;
(ii) Any open commodity contracts treated as specifically identifiable property in accordance with § 190.03(c)(2); and
(iii) Any physical delivery property described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of the definition of physical delivery property in this section.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (3) of this definition, security futures products, and any money, securities, or property held to margin, guarantee, or secure such products, or accruing as a result of such products, shall not be considered specifically identifiable property for the purposes of subchapter IV of the Bankruptcy Code or this part, if held in a securities account.
(3) No property that is not explicitly included in this definition may be treated as specifically identifiable property.
Strike price
means the price per unit multiplied by the total number of units at which a person may purchase or sell a futures contract or a commodity or other interest underlying an option that is a commodity contract.
Substitute customer property
means cash or cash equivalents delivered to the trustee by or on behalf of a customer in connection with:
(1) The return of specifically identifiable property by the trustee; or
(2) The return of, or an agreement not to draw upon, a letter of credit received, acquired or held to margin, guarantee, secure, purchase, or sell a commodity contract.
Swap
has the meaning set forth in section 1a(47) of the Act and § 1.3 of this chapter, and, in addition, also means any other contract, agreement, or transaction that is carried in a cleared swaps account pursuant to a rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, provided, in each case, that it is cleared by a clearing organization as, or the same as if it were, a swap.
Trustee
means, as appropriate, the trustee in bankruptcy or in a SIPA proceeding, appointed to administer the debtor's estate and any interim or successor trustee, or the FDIC, where it has been appointed as a receiver pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5382.
Undermargined
means, with respect to a futures account, foreign futures account, or cleared swaps account carried by the debtor, the funded balance for such account is below the minimum amount that the debtor is required to collect and maintain for the open commodity contracts in such account under the rules of the relevant clearing organization, foreign clearing organization, designated contract market, swap execution facility or foreign board of trade. If any such rules establish both an initial margin requirement and a lower maintenance margin requirement applicable to any commodity contracts (or to the entire portfolio of commodity contracts or any subset thereof) in a particular commodity contract account of the customer, the trustee will use the lower maintenance margin level to determine the customer's minimum margin requirement for such account.
Variation settlement
means variation margin as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter plus all other daily settlement amounts (such as price alignment payments) that may be owed or owing on the commodity contract.
§ 190.02
General.
(a)
Request for exemption.
(1) The trustee (or, in the case of an involuntary petition pursuant to section 303 of the Bankruptcy Code, any other person charged with the management of a commodity broker) may, for good cause shown, request from the Commission an exemption from the requirements of any procedural provision in this part, including an extension of any time limit prescribed by this part or an exemption subject to conditions, provided that the Commission shall not grant an extension for any time period established by the Bankruptcy Code.
(2) A request pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section—
(i) May be made
ex parte
and by any means of communication, written or oral, provided that the trustee must confirm an oral request in writing within one business day and such confirmation must contain all the information required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The request or confirmation of an oral request must be given to the Commission as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) Must state the particular provision of this part with respect to which the exemption or extension is sought, the reason for the requested exemption or extension, the amount of time sought if the request is for an extension, and the reason why such exemption or extension would not be contrary to the purposes of the Bankruptcy Code and this part.
(3) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, or members of the Commission staff designated by the Director, shall grant, deny, or otherwise respond to a request, on the basis of the information provided in any such request and after consultation with the Director of the Market Participants Division or members of the Commission staff designated by the Director, unless exigent circumstances require immediate action precluding such prior consultation, and shall communicate that determination by the most appropriate means to the person making the request.
(b)
Delegation of authority to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk.
(1) Until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, the Commission hereby delegates to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, and to such members of the Commission's staff acting under the Director's direction as they may designate, after consultation with the Director of the Market Participants Division, or such members of the Commission's staff under the Director's direction as they may designate, unless exigent circumstances require immediate action, all the functions of the Commission set forth in this part, except the authority to disapprove a pre-relief transfer of a public customer commodity contract account or customer property pursuant to § 190.07(e)(1).
(2) The Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated to the Director pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising its authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Forward contracts.
For purposes of this part, an entity for or with whom the debtor deals who holds a claim against the debtor solely on account of a forward contract, that is not cleared by a clearing organization, will not be deemed to be a customer.
(d)
Other.
The Bankruptcy Code will not be construed by the Commission to prohibit a commodity broker from doing business as any combination of the following: Futures commission merchant, commodity options dealer, foreign futures commission merchant, or leverage transaction merchant, nor will the Commission construe the Bankruptcy Code to permit any operation, trade, or business, or any combination of the foregoing, otherwise prohibited by the Act or by any of the Commission's regulations in this chapter, or by any order of the Commission.
(e)
Rule of construction.
Contracts in security futures products held in a securities account shall not be considered to be “from or for the commodity futures account” or “from or for the commodity options account” of such customers, as such terms are used in section 761(9) of the Bankruptcy Code.
(f)
Receivers.
In the event that a receiver for a futures commission merchant is appointed due to the violation or imminent violation of the customer property protection requirements of section 4d of the Act, or of the regulations in part 1, 22, or 30 of this chapter that implement section 4d or 4(b)(2) of the Act, or of the futures commission merchant's minimum capital requirements in § 1.17 of this chapter, such receiver may, in an appropriate case, file a petition for bankruptcy of such futures commission merchant pursuant to section 301 of the Bankruptcy Code.
(g)
Definition of “allowed.”
The term “allowed” in this part shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Bankruptcy Code.

# Subpart B—Futures Commission Merchant as Debtor
§ 190.03
Notices and proofs of claims.
(a)
Notices-means of providing
—(1)
To the Commission.
Unless instructed otherwise by the Commission, all mandatory or discretionary notices to be given to the Commission under this subpart shall be directed by electronic mail to
bankruptcyfilings@cftc.gov.
For purposes of this subpart, notice to the Commission shall be deemed to be given only upon actual receipt.
(2)
To Customers.
The trustee, after consultation with the Commission, and unless otherwise instructed by the Commission, will establish and follow procedures reasonably designed for giving adequate notice to customers under this subpart and for receiving claims or other notices from customers. Such procedures should include, absent good cause otherwise, the use of a prominent website as well as communication to customers' electronic addresses that are available in the debtor's books and records.
(b)
Notices to the Commission and designated self-regulatory organizations
—(1)
Of commencement of a proceeding.
Each commodity broker that is a futures commission merchant and files a petition in bankruptcy shall as soon as practicable before, and in any event no later than, the time of such filing, notify the Commission and such commodity broker's designated self-regulatory organization of the anticipated or actual filing date, the court in which the proceeding will be or has been filed and, as soon as known, the docket number assigned to that proceeding. Each commodity broker that is a futures commission merchant and against which a bankruptcy petition is filed or with respect to which an application for a protective decree under SIPA is filed shall immediately upon the filing of such petition or application notify the Commission and such commodity broker's designated self-regulatory organization of the filing date, the court in which the proceeding has been filed, and, as soon as known, the docket number assigned to that proceeding.
(2)
Of transfers under section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code.
As soon as possible, the trustee of a commodity broker that is a futures commissions merchant, the relevant designated self-regulatory organization, or the applicable clearing organization must notify the Commission, and in the case of a futures commission merchant, the trustee shall also notify its designated self-regulatory organization and clearing organization(s), if such person intends to transfer or to apply to transfer open commodity contracts or customer property on behalf of the public customers of the debtor in accordance with section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and § 190.07(c) or (d).
(c)
Notices to customers
—(1)
Specifically identifiable property other than open commodity contracts.
In any case in which an order for relief has been entered, the trustee must use all reasonable efforts to promptly notify, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any customer whose futures account, foreign futures account, or cleared swaps account includes specifically identifiable property, other than open commodity contracts, which has not been liquidated, that such specifically identifiable property may be liquidated commencing on and after the seventh day after the order for relief (or such other date as is specified by the trustee in the notice with the approval of the Commission or court) if the customer has not instructed the trustee in writing before the deadline specified in the
notice to return such property pursuant to the terms for distribution of specifically identifiable property contained in § 190.09(d)(1). Such notice must describe the specifically identifiable property and specify the terms upon which that property may be returned, including if applicable and to the extent practicable any substitute customer property that must be provided by the customer.
(2)
Open commodity contracts carried in hedging accounts.
To the extent reasonably practicable under the circumstances of the case, and following consultation with the Commission, the trustee may treat open commodity contracts of public customers identified on the books and records of the debtor as held in a futures account, foreign futures account, or cleared swaps account designated as a hedging account in the debtor's records, as specifically identifiable property of such customer.
(i) If the trustee does not exercise such authority, such open commodity contracts do not constitute specifically identifiable property.
(ii) If the trustee exercises such authority:
(A) The trustee shall use reasonable efforts to promptly notify, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each relevant public customer of such determination.
(B)(
1
) Where, in the judgment of the trustee, the books and records of the debtor reveal a clear preference by a relevant public customer with respect to transfer or liquidation of open commodity contracts, the trustee shall endeavor, to the extent reasonably practicable, to comply with that preference.
(
2
) Where, in the judgment of the trustee, the books and records of the debtor do not reveal a clear preference by a relevant public customer with respect to transfer or liquidation of open commodity contracts, the trustee will request the customer to provide written instructions whether to transfer or liquidate such open commodity contracts. Such notice must specify the manner for providing such instructions and the deadline by which the customer must provide instructions.
(C) Such notice must also inform the customer that:
(
1
) (Where instructions have been requested pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section), if the customer does not provide instructions in the prescribed manner and by the prescribed deadline, the customer's open commodity contracts will not be treated as specifically identifiable property under this part;
(
2
) Any transfer of the open commodity contracts is subject to the terms for distribution contained in § 190.09(d)(2);
(
3
) Absent compliance with any terms imposed by the trustee or the court, the trustee may liquidate the open commodity contracts; and
(
4
) Providing (or having provided) instructions may not prevent the open commodity contracts from being liquidated.
(3)
Involuntary cases.
Prior to entry of an order for relief, and upon leave of the court, a trustee appointed in an involuntary proceeding pursuant to section 303 of the Bankruptcy Code may notify customers, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, of the commencement of such proceeding and may request customer instructions with respect to the return, liquidation, or transfer of specifically identifiable property.
(4)
Notice of bankruptcy and request for proof of customer claim.
The trustee shall promptly notify, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each customer that an order for relief has been entered and instruct each customer to file a proof of customer claim containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section. Such notice may be given separately from any notice provided in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The trustee shall cause the proof of customer claim form referred to in paragraph (e) of this section to set forth the bar date for its filing.
(d)
Notice of court filings.
The trustee shall promptly provide the Commission with copies of any complaint, motion, or petition filed in a commodity broker
bankruptcy which concerns the disposition of customer property. Court filings shall be directed to the Commission addressed as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(e)
Proof of customer claim.
The trustee shall request that customers provide, to the extent reasonably practicable, information sufficient to determine a customer's claim in accordance with the regulations contained in this part, including in the discretion of the trustee:
(1) The class of commodity contract account upon which each claim is based (
i.e.,
futures account, foreign futures account, cleared swaps account, or delivery account (and, in the case of a delivery account, how much is based on cash delivery property and how much is based on the value of physical delivery property);
(2) Whether the claimant is a public customer or a non-public customer;
(3) The number of commodity contract accounts held by each claimant, and, for each such account:
(i) The account number;
(ii) The name in which the account is held;
(iii) The balance as of the last account statement for the account, and information regarding any activity in the account from the date of the last account statement up to and including the filing date that affected the balance of the account;
(iv) The capacity in which the account is held;
(v) Whether the account is a joint account and, if so, the amount of the claimant's percentage interest in that account and whether participants in the joint account are claiming jointly or separately;
(vi) Whether the account is a discretionary account;
(vii) Whether the account is an individual retirement account for which there is a custodian; and
(viii) Whether the account is a cross-margining account for futures and securities;
(4) A description of any accounts held by the claimant with the debtor that are not commodity contract accounts;
(5) A description of all claims against the debtor not based upon a commodity contract account of the claimant or an account listed in response to paragraph (e)(4) of this section;
(6) A description of all claims of the debtor against the claimant not included in the balance of a commodity contract account of the claimant;
(7) A description of and the value of any open positions, unliquidated securities, or other unliquidated property held by the debtor on behalf of the claimant, indicating the portion of such property, if any, which was included in the information provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, and identifying any such property which would be specifically identifiable property as defined in § 190.01;
(8) Whether the claimant holds positions in security futures products, and, if so, whether those positions are held in a futures account, a foreign futures account, or a securities account;
(9) Whether the claimant wishes to receive payment in kind, to the extent practicable, for any claim for unliquidated securities or other unliquidated property; and
(10) Copies of any documents which support the information contained in the proof of customer claim, including without limitation, customer confirmations, account statements, and statements of purchase or sale.
(f)
Proof of claim form.
A template customer proof of claim form which may (but is not required to) be used by the trustee is set forth in appendix A to this part.
(1) If there are no open commodity contracts that are being treated as specifically identifiable property (e.g., if the customer proof of claim form was distributed after the primary liquidation date), the trustee should modify the customer proof of claim form to delete references to open commodity contracts as specifically identifiable property.
(2) In the event the trustee determines that the debtor's books and records reflecting customer transactions are not reasonably reliable, or account statements are not available from which account balances as of the date of transfer or liquidation of customer property may be determined, the proof of claim form used by the trustee
should be modified to take into account the particular facts and circumstances of the case.
§ 190.04
Operation of the debtor's estate—customer property.
(a)
Transfers
—(1)
All cases.
The trustee for a commodity broker shall promptly use its best efforts to effect a transfer in accordance with § 190.07(c) and (d) no later than the seventh calendar day after the order for relief of the open commodity contracts and property held by the commodity broker for or on behalf of its public customers.
(2)
Involuntary cases.
A commodity broker against which an involuntary petition in bankruptcy is filed, or the trustee if a trustee has been appointed in such case, shall use its best efforts to effect a transfer in accordance with § 190.07(c) and (d) of all open commodity contracts and property held by the commodity broker for or on behalf of its public customers and such other property as the Commission in its discretion may authorize, on or before the seventh calendar day after the filing date, and immediately cease doing business;
provided, however,
that if the commodity broker demonstrates to the Commission within such period that it was in compliance with the segregation and financial requirements of this chapter on the filing date, and the Commission determines, in its sole discretion, that such transfer is neither appropriate nor in the public interest, the commodity broker may continue in business subject to applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and of this chapter.
(b)
Treatment of open commodity contracts
—(1)
Payments by the trustee.
Prior to the primary liquidation date, the trustee may make payments of initial margin and variation settlement to a clearing organization, commodity broker, foreign clearing organization, or foreign futures intermediary, carrying the account of the debtor, pending the transfer, or liquidation of any open commodity contracts, whether or not such contracts are specifically identifiable property of a particular customer, provided, that:
(i) To the extent within the trustee's control, the trustee shall not make any payments on behalf of any commodity contract account on the books and records of the debtor that is in deficit;
provided, however,
that the provision in this paragraph (b)(1) shall not be construed to prevent a clearing organization, foreign clearing organization, futures commission merchant, or foreign futures intermediary carrying an account of the debtor from exercising its rights to the extent permitted under applicable law;
(ii) Any margin payments made by the trustee with respect to a specific customer account shall not exceed the funded balance for that account;
(iii) The trustee shall not make any payments on behalf of non-public customers of the debtor from funds that are segregated for the benefit of public customers;
(iv) If the trustee receives payments from a customer in response to a margin call, then to the extent within the trustee's control, the trustee must use such payments to make margin payments for the open commodity contract positions of such customer;
(v) The trustee may not use payments received from one public customer to meet the margin (or any other) obligations of any other customer; and
(vi) If funds segregated for the benefit of public customers in a particular account class exceed the aggregate net equity claims for all public customers in such account class, the trustee may use such excess funds to meet the margin obligations for any public customer in such account class whose account is under-margined (as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section) but not in deficit, provided that the trustee issues a margin call to such customer and provided further that the trustee shall liquidate such customer's open commodity contracts if the customer fails to make the margin payment within a reasonable time as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(2)
Margin calls.
The trustee (or, prior to appointment of the trustee, the debtor against which an involuntary petition was filed) may issue a margin call to any public customer whose commodity contract account contains open commodity contracts if such account is under-margined.
(3)
Margin payments by the customer.
The full amount of any margin payment by a customer in response to a margin call under paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be credited to the funded balance of the particular account for which it was made.
(4)
Trustee obligation to liquidate certain open commodity contracts.
The trustee shall, as soon as practicable under the circumstances, liquidate all open commodity contracts in any commodity contract account that is in deficit, or for which any mark-to-market calculation would result in a deficit, or for which the customer fails to meet a margin call made by the trustee within a reasonable time. Except as otherwise provided in this part, absent exigent circumstances, a reasonable time for meeting margin calls made by the trustee shall be deemed to be one hour, or such greater period not to exceed one business day, as the trustee may determine in its sole discretion.
(5)
Partial liquidation of open commodity contracts by others.
In the event that a clearing organization, foreign clearing organization, futures commission merchant, foreign futures intermediary, or other person carrying a commodity customer account for the debtor in the nature of an omnibus account has liquidated only a portion of open commodity contracts in such account, the trustee will exercise reasonable business judgment in assigning the liquidating transactions to the underlying commodity customer accounts carried by the debtor. Specifically, the trustee should endeavor to assign the contracts as follows: First, to liquidate open commodity contracts in a risk-reducing manner in any accounts that are in deficit; second, to liquidate open commodity contracts in a risk-reducing manner in any accounts that are undermargined; third, to liquidate open commodity contracts in a risk-reducing manner in any other accounts, and finally to liquidate any remaining open commodity contracts in any accounts. If more than one commodity contract account reflects open commodity contracts in a particular account class for which liquidating transactions have been executed, the trustee shall to the extent practicable allocate the liquidating transactions to such commodity contract accounts pro rata based on the number of open commodity contracts of such commodity contract accounts. For purposes of this section, the term “a risk-reducing manner” is measured by margin requirements set using the margin methodology and parameters followed by the derivatives clearing organization at which such contracts are cleared.
(c)
Contracts moving into delivery position.
After entry of the order for relief and subject to paragraph (a) of this section, which requires the trustee to attempt to make transfers to other commodity brokers permitted by § 190.07 and section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, the trustee shall use its best efforts to liquidate any open commodity contract that settles upon expiration or exercise via the making or taking of delivery of a commodity:
(1) If such contract is a futures contract or a cleared swaps contract, before the earlier of the last trading day or the first day on which notice of intent to deliver may be tendered with respect thereto, or otherwise before the debtor or its customer incurs an obligation to make or take delivery of the commodity under such contract;
(2) If such contract is a long option on a commodity and has value, before the first date on which the contract could be automatically exercised or the last date on which the contract could be exercised if not subject to automatic exercise; or
(3) If such contract is a short option on a commodity that is in-the-money in favor of the long position holder, before the first date on which the long option position could be exercised.
(d)
Liquidation or offset.
After entry of the order for relief and subject to paragraph (a) of this section, which requires the trustee to attempt to make transfers to other commodity brokers permitted by § 190.07 and section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, and except as otherwise set forth in this paragraph (d), the following commodity contracts and other property held by or for the account of a debtor must be liquidated in the market in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section or liquidated via book entry in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section by
the trustee promptly and in an orderly manner:
(1)
Open commodity contracts.
All open commodity contracts, except for:
(i) Commodity contracts that are specifically identifiable property (if applicable) and are subject to customer instructions to transfer (in lieu of liquidating) as provided in § 190.03(c)(2), provided that the customer is in compliance with the terms of § 190.09(d)(2); and
(ii) Open commodity contract positions that are in a delivery position, which shall be treated in accordance with the provisions of § 190.06.
(2)
Specifically identifiable property, other than open commodity contracts or physical delivery property.
Specifically identifiable property, other than open commodity contracts or physical delivery property, to the extent that:
(i) The fair market value of such property is less than 75% of its fair market value on the date of entry of the order for relief;
(ii) Failure to liquidate the specifically identifiable property may result in a deficit balance in the applicable customer account; or
(iii) The trustee has not received instructions to return pursuant to § 190.03(c)(1), or has not returned such property upon the terms contained in § 190.09(d)(1).
(3)
Letters of credit.
The trustee may request that a customer deliver substitute customer property with respect to any letter of credit received, acquired, or held to margin, guarantee, secure, purchase, or sell a commodity contract, whether the letter of credit is held by the trustee on behalf of the debtor's estate or a derivatives clearing organization or a foreign intermediary or foreign clearing organization on a pass-through or other basis, including in cases where the letter of credit has expired since the date of the order for relief. The amount of the request may equal the full face amount of the letter of the credit or any portion thereof, to the extent required or may be required in the trustee's discretion to ensure pro rata treatment among customer claims within each account class, consistent with §§ 190.08 and 190.09.
(i) If a customer fails to provide substitute customer property within a reasonable time specified by the trustee, the trustee may, if the letter of credit has not expired, draw upon the full amount of the letter of credit or any portion thereof.
(ii) For any letter of credit referred to in this paragraph (d)(3), the trustee shall treat any portion that is not drawn upon (less the value of any substitute customer property delivered by the customer) as having been distributed to the customer for purposes of calculating entitlements to distribution or transfer. The expiration of the letter of credit on or at any time after the date of the order for relief shall not affect such calculation.
(iii) Any proceeds of a letter of credit drawn by the trustee, or substitute customer property posted by a customer, shall be considered customer property in the account class applicable to the original letter of credit.
(iv) The trustee shall, in exercising their discretion with regard to addressing letters of credit, including as to the timing and amount of a request for substitute customer property, endeavor to mitigate, to the extent practicable, the adverse effects upon customers that have posted letters of credit, in a manner that achieves
pro rata
treatment among customer claims.
(4)
All other property.
All other property, other than physical delivery property held for delivery in accordance with the provisions of § 190.06, which is not required to be transferred or returned pursuant to customer instructions and which has not been liquidated in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(e)
Liquidation of open commodity contracts
—(1)
By the trustee or a clearing organization in the market
—(i)
Debtor as a clearing member.
For open commodity contracts cleared by the debtor as a member of a clearing organization, the trustee or clearing organization, as applicable, shall liquidate such open commodity contracts pursuant to the rules of the clearing organization, a designated contract market, or a swap execution facility, if and as applicable. Any such rules providing for liquidation other than on the open market
shall be designed to achieve, to the extent feasible under market conditions at the time of liquidation, a process for liquidating open commodity contracts that results in competitive pricing. For open commodity contracts that are futures or options on futures that were established on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade and cleared by the debtor as a member of a foreign clearing organization, the trustee shall liquidate such open commodity contracts pursuant to the rules of the foreign clearing organization or foreign board of trade or, in the absence of such rules, in the manner the trustee determines appropriate.
(ii)
Debtor not a clearing member.
For open commodity contracts submitted by the debtor for clearing through one or more accounts established with a futures commission merchant (as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter) or foreign futures intermediary, the trustee shall use commercially reasonable efforts to liquidate the open commodity contracts to achieve competitive pricing, to the extent feasible under market conditions at the time of liquidation and subject to any rules or orders of the relevant clearing organization, foreign clearing organization, designated contract market, swap execution facility, or foreign board of trade governing the liquidation of open commodity contracts.
(2)
By the trustee or a clearing organization via book entry offset.
Upon application by the trustee or clearing organization, the Commission may permit open commodity contracts to be liquidated, or settlement on such contracts to be made, by book entry. Such book entry shall offset open commodity contracts, whether matched or not matched on the books of the commodity broker, using the settlement price for such commodity contracts as determined by the clearing organization in accordance with its rules. Such rules shall be designed to establish, to the extent feasible under market conditions at the time of liquidation, such settlement prices in a competitive manner.
(3)
By a futures commission merchant or foreign futures intermediary.
For open commodity contracts cleared by the debtor through one or more accounts established with a futures commission merchant or a foreign futures intermediary, such futures commission merchant or foreign futures intermediary may exercise any enforceable contractual rights it has to liquidate such commodity contracts, provided, that it shall use commercially reasonable efforts to liquidate the open commodity contracts to achieve competitive pricing, to the extent feasible under market conditions at the time of liquidation and subject to any rules or orders of the relevant clearing organization, foreign clearing organization, designated contract market, swap execution facility, or foreign board of trade governing its liquidation of such open commodity contracts. If a futures commission merchant or foreign futures intermediary fails to use commercially reasonable efforts to liquidate open commodity contracts to achieve competitive pricing in accordance with this paragraph (e)(3), the trustee may seek damages reflecting the difference between the price (or prices) at which the relevant commodity contracts would have been liquidated using commercially reasonable efforts to achieve competitive pricing and the price (or prices) at which the commodity contracts were liquidated, which shall be the sole remedy available to the trustee. In no event shall any such liquidation be voided.
(4)
Liquidation only.
(i) Nothing in this part shall be interpreted to permit the trustee to purchase or sell new commodity contracts for the debtor or its customers except to offset open commodity contracts or to transfer any transferable notice received by the debtor or the trustee under any commodity contract;
provided, however,
that the trustee may, in its discretion and with approval of the Commission, cover uncovered inventory or commodity contracts of the debtor which cannot be liquidated immediately because of price limits or other market conditions, or may take an offsetting position in a new month or at a strike price for which limits have not been reached.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, the trustee may, with the written permission of the Commission, operate the business
of the debtor in the ordinary course, including the purchase or sale of new commodity contracts on behalf of the customers of the debtor under appropriate circumstances, as determined by the Commission.
(f)
Long option contracts.
Subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the trustee shall use its best efforts to assure that a commodity contract that is a long option contract with value does not expire worthless.
§ 190.05
Operation of the debtor's estate—general.
(a)
Compliance with the Act and regulations in this chapter.
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this part, the trustee shall use reasonable efforts to comply with all of the provisions of the Act and of the regulations in this chapter as if it were the debtor.
(b)
Computation of funded balance.
The trustee shall use reasonable efforts to compute a funded balance for each customer account that contains open commodity contracts or other property as of the close of business each business day subsequent to the order for relief until the date all open commodity contracts and other property in such account have been transferred or liquidated, which shall be as accurate as reasonably practicable under the circumstances, including the reliability and availability of information.
(c)
Records
—(1)
Maintenance.
Except as otherwise ordered by the court or as permitted by the Commission, records required under this chapter to be maintained by the debtor, including records of the computations required by this part, shall be maintained by the trustee until such time as the debtor's case is closed.
(2)
Accessibility.
The records required to be maintained by paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be available during business hours to the Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice. The trustee shall give the Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice access to all records of the debtor, including records required to be retained in accordance with § 1.31 of this chapter and all other records of the commodity broker, whether or not the Act or this chapter would require such records to be maintained by the commodity broker.
(d)
Customer statements.
The trustee shall use all reasonable efforts to continue to issue account statements with respect to any customer for whose account open commodity contracts or other property is held that has not been liquidated or transferred. With respect to such accounts, the trustee must also issue an account statement reflecting any liquidation or transfer of open commodity contracts or other property promptly after such liquidation or transfer.
(e)
Other matters
—(1)
Disbursements.
With the exception of transfers of customer property made in accordance with § 190.07, the trustee shall make no disbursements to customers except with approval of the court.
(2)
Investment.
The trustee shall promptly invest the proceeds from the liquidation of commodity contracts or specifically identifiable property, and may invest any other customer property, in obligations of the United States and obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States, provided that such obligations are maintained in a depository located in the United States, its territories or possessions.
(f)
Residual interest.
The trustee shall apply the residual interest provisions of § 1.11 of this chapter in a manner appropriate to the context of their responsibilities as a bankruptcy trustee pursuant subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code and this part, and in light of the existence of a surplus or deficit in customer property available to pay customer claims.
§ 190.06
Making and taking delivery under commodity contracts.
(a)
Deliveries
—(1)
General.
The provisions of this paragraph (a) apply to commodity contracts that settle upon expiration or exercise by making or taking delivery of physical delivery property, if such commodity contracts are in a delivery position on the filing date, or the trustee is unable to liquidate such commodity contracts in accordance with § 190.04(c) to prevent
them from moving into a delivery position,
i.e.,
before the debtor or its customer incurs bilateral contractual obligations to make or take delivery under such commodity contracts.
(2)
Delivery made or taken on behalf of a customer outside of the administration of the debtor's estate.
(i) The trustee shall use reasonable efforts to allow a customer to deliver physical delivery property that is held directly by the customer and not by the debtor (and thus not recorded in any commodity contract account of the customer) in settlement of a commodity contract, and to allow payment in exchange for such delivery, to occur outside the administration of the debtor's estate, when the rules of the exchange or other market listing the commodity contract, or the clearing organization or the foreign clearing organization clearing the commodity contract, as applicable, prescribe a process for delivery that allows the delivery to be fulfilled:
(A) In the normal course directly by the customer;
(B) By substitution of the customer for the commodity broker; or
(C) Through agreement of the buyer and seller to alternative delivery procedures.
(ii) Where a customer delivers physical delivery property in settlement of a commodity contract outside of the administration of the debtors' estate in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, any property of such customer held at the debtor in connection with such contract must nonetheless be included in the net equity claim of that customer, and, as such, can only be distributed pro rata at the time of, and as part of, any distributions to customers made by the trustee.
(3)
Delivery as part of administration of the debtor's estate.
When the trustee determines that it is not practicable to effect delivery as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
(i) To facilitate the making or taking of delivery directly by a customer, the trustee may, as it determines reasonable under the circumstances of the case and consistent with the pro rata distribution of customer property by account class:
(A) When a customer is obligated to make delivery, return any physical delivery property to the customer that is held by the debtor for or on behalf of the customer under the terms set forth in § 190.09(d)(1)(ii), to allow the customer to deliver such property to fulfill its delivery obligation under the commodity contract; or
(B) When a customer is obligated to take delivery:
(
1
) Return any cash delivery property to the customer that is reflected in the customer's delivery account, provided that cash delivery property returned under this paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B)(
1
) shall not exceed the lesser of:
(
i
) The amount the customer is required to pay for delivery of the commodity; or
(
ii
) The customer's net funded balance for all of the customer's commodity contract accounts;
(
2
) Return cash, securities, or other property held in the customer's non-delivery commodity contract accounts, provided that property returned under this section shall not exceed the lesser of:
(
i
) The amount the customer is required to pay for delivery of the commodity; or
(
ii
) The net funded balance for all of the customer's commodity contract accounts reduced by any amount returned to the customer pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section, and provided further, however, that the trustee may distribute such property only to the extent that the customer's funded balance for each such account exceeds the minimum margin obligations for such account (as described in § 190.04(b)(2)); and
(C) Impose such conditions on the customer as it considers appropriate to assure that property returned to the customer is used to fulfill the customer's delivery obligations.
(ii) If the trustee does not return physical delivery property, cash delivery property, or other property in the form of cash or cash equivalents to the customer as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, subject to paragraph (a)(4) of this section:
(A) To the extent practical, the trustee shall make or take delivery of physical delivery property in the same manner as if no bankruptcy had occurred, and when making delivery, the
party to which delivery is made must pay the full price required for taking such delivery; or
(B) When taking delivery of physical delivery property:
(
1
) The trustee shall pay for the delivery first using the customer's cash delivery property or other property, limited to the amounts set forth in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) of this section, along with any cash transferred by the customer to the trustee on or after the filing date for the purpose of paying for delivery.
(
2
) If the value of the cash or cash equivalents that may be used to pay for deliveries as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) of this section is less than the amount required to be paid for taking delivery, the trustee shall issue a payment call to the customer. The full amount of any payment made by the customer in response to a payment call must be credited to the funded balance of the particular account for which such payment is made.
(
3
) If the customer fails to meet a call for payment under paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section before payment is made for delivery, the trustee must convert any physical delivery property received on behalf of the customer to cash as promptly as possible.
(4)
Deliveries in a securities account.
If an open commodity contract held in a futures account, foreign futures account, or cleared swaps account requires delivery of a security upon expiration or exercise of such commodity contract, and delivery is not completed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3)(i) of this section, the trustee may make or take delivery in a securities account in a manner consistent with paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section,
provided, however,
that the trustee may transfer property from the customer's commodity contract accounts to the securities account to fulfill the delivery obligation only to the extent that the customer's funded balance for such commodity contract account exceeds the customer's minimum margin obligations for such accounts (as described in § 190.04(b)(2)) and provided further that the customer is not under-margined or does not have a deficit balance in any other commodity contract accounts.
(5)
Delivery made or taken on behalf of proprietary account.
If delivery of physical delivery property is to be made or taken on behalf of the debtor's own account or the account of any non-public customer of the debtor, the trustee shall make or take delivery, as the case may be, on behalf of the debtor's estate, provided that if the trustee takes delivery of physical delivery property it must convert such property to cash as promptly as possible.
(b)
Special account class provisions for delivery accounts.
(1) Within the delivery account class, the trustee shall treat—
(i) Physical delivery property held in delivery accounts as of the filing date, and the proceeds of any such physical delivery property subsequently received, as part of the physical delivery account class; and
(ii) Cash delivery property in delivery accounts as of the filing date, along with any physical delivery property for which delivery is subsequently taken on behalf of a customer in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, as part of a separate cash delivery account class.
(2)(i) If the debtor holds any cash or cash equivalents in an account maintained at a bank, clearing organization, foreign clearing organization, or other person, under a name or in a manner that clearly indicates that the account holds property for the purpose of making payment for taking delivery, or receiving payment for making delivery, of a commodity under commodity contracts, such property shall (subject to § 190.09) be considered customer property—
(A) In the cash delivery account class if held for making payment for taking delivery; and
(B) In the physical delivery account class, if held as a result of receiving such payment for a making delivery after the filing date.
(ii) Any other property (excluding property segregated for the benefit of customer in the futures, foreign futures or cleared swaps account class) that is traceable as having been held or
received for the purpose of making delivery, or as having been held or received as a result of taking delivery, of a commodity under commodity contracts, shall (subject to § 190.09) be considered customer property—
(A) In the cash delivery account class if received after the filing date in exchange for taking delivery; and
(B) Otherwise shall be considered customer property in the physical delivery account class.
§ 190.07
Transfers.
(a)
Transfer rules.
No clearing organization or self-regulatory organization may adopt, maintain in effect, or enforce rules that:
(1) Are inconsistent with the provisions of this part;
(2) Interfere with the acceptance by its members of transfers of commodity contracts, and the property margining or securing such contracts, from futures commission merchants that are required to transfer accounts pursuant to § 1.17(a)(4) of this chapter; or
(3) Interfere with the acceptance by its members of transfers of commodity contracts, and the property margining or securing such contracts, from a futures commission merchant that is a debtor as defined in § 190.01, if such transfers have been approved by the Commission,
provided, however,
that this paragraph (a)(3) shall not—
(i) Limit the exercise of any contractual right of a clearing organization or other registered entity to liquidate or transfer open commodity contracts; or
(ii) Be interpreted to limit a clearing organization's ability adequately to manage risk.
(b)
Requirements for transferees.
(1) It is the duty of each transferee to assure that it will not accept a transfer that would cause the transferee to be in violation of the minimum financial requirements set forth in this chapter.
(2) Any transferee that accepts a transfer of open commodity contracts from the estate of the debtor—
(i) Accepts the transfer subject to any loss that may arise in the event the transferee cannot recover from the customer any deficit balance that may arise related to the transferred open commodity contracts.
(ii) If the commodity contracts were held for the account of a customer:
(A) Must keep such commodity contracts open at least one business day after their receipt, unless the customer for whom the transfer is made fails to respond within a reasonable time to a margin call for the difference between the margin transferred with such commodity contracts and the margin which such transferee would require with respect to a similar set of commodity contracts held for the account of a customer in the ordinary course of business; and
(B) May not collect commissions with respect to the transfer of such commodity contracts.
(3) A transferee may accept open commodity contracts and property, and open accounts on its records, for customers whose commodity contracts and property are transferred pursuant to this part prior to completing customer diligence, provided that account opening diligence as required by law (including the risk disclosures referred to in § 1.65(a)(3) of this chapter) is performed, and records and information required by law are obtained, as soon as practicable, but in any event within six months of the transfer, unless this time is extended for a particular account, transferee, or debtor by the Commission.
(4)(i) Any account agreements governing a transferred account (including an account that has been partially transferred) shall be deemed assigned to the transferee by operation of law and shall govern the transferee and customer's relationship until such time as the transferee and customer enter into a new agreement;
provided, however,
that any breach of such agreement by the debtor existing at or before the time of the transfer (including, but not limited to, any failure to segregate sufficient customer property) shall not constitute a default or breach of the agreement on the part of the transferee, or constitute a defense to the enforcement of the agreement by the transferee.
(ii) Paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section shall not apply where the customer has a pre-existing account agreement with the transferee futures commission merchant. In such a case, the transferred
account will be governed by that pre-existing account agreement.
(5) If open commodity contracts or any specifically identifiable property has been, or is to be, transferred in accordance with section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and this section, customer instructions previously received by the trustee with respect to open commodity contracts or with respect to specifically identifiable property, shall be transmitted to the transferee of property, which shall comply therewith to the extent practicable.
(c)
Eligibility for transfer under section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code—accounts eligible for transfer.
All commodity contract accounts (including accounts with no open commodity contract positions) are eligible for transfer after the order for relief pursuant to section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, except:
(1) The debtor's own account or the accounts of general partners of the debtor if the debtor is a partnership; and
(2) Accounts that are in deficit.
(d)
Special rules for transfers under section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code
—(1)
Effecting transfer.
The trustee for a commodity broker shall use its best efforts to effect a transfer to one or more other commodity brokers of all eligible commodity contract accounts, open commodity contracts and property held by the debtor for or on behalf of its customers, based on customer claims or record, no later than the seventh calendar day after the order for relief.
(2)
Partial transfers; multiple transferees
—(i)
Of the customer estate.
If all eligible commodity contract accounts held by a debtor cannot be transferred under this section, a partial transfer may nonetheless be made. The Commission will not disapprove such a transfer for the sole reason that it was a partial transfer. Commodity contract accounts may be transferred to one or more transferees, and, subject to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, may be transferred to different transferees by account class.
(ii)
Of a customer's commodity contract account.
If all of a customer's open commodity contracts and property cannot be transferred under this section, a partial transfer of contracts and property may be made so long as such transfer would not result in an increase in the amount of any customer's net equity claim. One, but not the only, means to effectuate a partial transfer is by liquidating a portion of the open commodity contracts held by a customer such that sufficient value is realized, or margin requirements are reduced to an extent sufficient, to permit the transfer of some or all of the remaining open commodity contracts and property. If any open commodity contract to be transferred in a partial transfer is part of a spread or straddle, to the extent practicable under the circumstances, each side of such spread or straddle must be transferred or none of the open commodity contracts comprising the spread or straddle may be transferred.
(3)
Letters of credit.
A letter of credit received, acquired, or held to margin, guarantee, secure, purchase, or sell a commodity contract may be transferred with an eligible commodity contract account if it is held by a derivatives clearing organization on a pass-through or other basis or is transferable by its terms, so long as the transfer will not result in a recovery which exceeds the amount to which the customer would be entitled under §§ 190.08 and 190.09. If the letter of credit cannot be transferred as provided for in the foregoing sentence, and the customer does not deliver substitute customer property to the trustee in accordance with § 190.04(d)(3), the trustee may draw upon a portion or all of the letter of credit, the proceeds of which shall be treated as customer property in the applicable account class.
(4)
Physical delivery property.
The trustee shall use reasonable efforts to prevent physical delivery property held for the purpose of making delivery on a commodity contract from being transferred separate and apart from the related commodity contract, or to a different transferee.
(5)
No prejudice to other customers.
No transfer shall be made under this part by the trustee if, after taking into account all customer property available for distribution to customers in the applicable account class at the time of the transfer, such transfer would result in insufficient remaining customer
property to make an equivalent percentage distribution (including all previous transfers and distributions) to all customers in the applicable account class, based on—
(i) Customer claims of record; and
(ii) Estimates of other customer claims made in the trustee's reasonable discretion based on available information, in each case as of the calendar day immediately preceding transfer.
(e)
Prohibition on avoidance of transfers under section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code
—(1)
Pre-relief transfers.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following transfers are approved and may not be avoided under sections 544, 546, 547, 548, 549, or 724(a) of the Bankruptcy Code:
(i) The transfer of commodity contract accounts or customer property prior to the entry of the order for relief in compliance with § 1.17(a)(4) of this chapter unless such transfer is disapproved by the Commission;
(ii) The transfer, withdrawal, or settlement, prior to the order for relief at the request of a public customer, including a transfer, withdrawal, or settlement at the request of a public customer that is a commodity broker, of commodity contract accounts or customer property held from or for the account of such customer by or on behalf of the debtor unless:
(A) The customer acted in collusion with the debtor or its principals to obtain a greater share of customer property or the bankruptcy estate than that to which it would be entitled under this part; or
(B) The transfer is disapproved by the Commission;
(iii) The transfer prior to the order for relief by a clearing organization, or by a receiver that has been appointed for the futures commission merchant (FCM) that is now a debtor, of one or more accounts held for or on behalf of customers of the debtor, or of commodity contracts and other customer property held for or on behalf of customers of the debtor, provided that the transfer is not disapproved by the Commission.
(2)
Post-relief transfers.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following transfers are approved and may not be avoided under sections 544, 546, 547, 548, 549, or 724(a) of the Bankruptcy Code:
(i) The transfer of a commodity contract account or customer property eligible to be transferred under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section made by the trustee or by any clearing organization on or before the seventh calendar day after the entry of the order for relief, as to which the Commission has not disapproved the transfer; or
(ii) The transfer of a commodity contract account or customer property at the direction of the Commission on or before the seventh calendar day after the order for relief, upon such terms and conditions as the Commission may deem appropriate and in the public interest.
(f)
Commission action.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section (other than paragraphs (d)(2)(ii) and (d)(5) of this section), in appropriate cases and to protect the public interest, the Commission may:
(1) Prohibit the transfer of a particular set or sets of commodity contract accounts and customer property; or
(2) Permit transfers of a particular set or sets of commodity contract accounts and customer property that do not comply with the requirements of this section.
§ 190.08
Calculation of funded net equity.
For purposes of this subpart, funded net equity shall be computed as follows:
(a)
Funded claim.
The funded net equity claim of a customer shall be equal to the aggregate of the funded balances of such customer's net equity claim for each account class.
(b)
Net equity.
Net equity means a customer's total customer claim of record against the estate of the debtor based on the customer property, including any commodity contracts, held by the debtor for or on behalf of such customer less any indebtedness of the customer to the debtor. Net equity shall be calculated as follows:
(1)
Step 1-equity determination.
(i) Determine the equity balance of each
commodity contract account of a customer by computing, with respect to such account, the sum of:
(A) The ledger balance;
(B) The open trade balance; and
(C) The realizable market value, determined as of the close of the market on the last preceding market day, of any securities or other property held by or for the debtor from or for such account, plus accrued interest, if any.
(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph (b)(1), the ledger balance of a customer account shall be calculated by:
(A) Adding:
(
1
) Cash deposited to purchase, margin, guarantee, secure, or settle a commodity contract;
(
2
) Cash proceeds of liquidations of any securities or other property referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section;
(
3
) Gains realized on trades; and
(
4
) The face amount of any letter of credit received, acquired or held to margin, guarantee, secure, purchase or sell a commodity contract; and
(B) Subtracting from the result:
(
1
) Losses realized on trades;
(
2
) Disbursements to or on behalf of the customer (including, for these purposes, transfers made pursuant to §§ 190.04(a) and 190.07); and
(
3
) The normal costs attributable to the payment of commissions, brokerage, interest, taxes, storage, transaction fees, insurance, and other costs and charges lawfully incurred in connection with the purchase, sale, exercise, or liquidation of any commodity contract in such account.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1), the open trade balance of a customer's account shall be computed by subtracting the unrealized loss in value of the open commodity contracts held by or for such account from the unrealized gain in value of the open commodity contracts held by or for such account.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1), in calculating the ledger balance or open trade balance of any customer, exclude any security futures products, any gains or losses realized on trades in such products, any property received to margin, guarantee, or secure such products (including interest thereon or the proceeds thereof), to the extent any of the foregoing are held in a securities account, and any disbursements to or on behalf of such customer in connection with such products or such property held in a securities account.
(2)
Step 2-customer determination (aggregation).
Aggregate the credit and debit equity balances of all accounts of the same class held by a customer in the same capacity. Paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xii) of this section prescribe which accounts must be treated as being held in the same capacity and which accounts must be treated as being held in a separate capacity.
(i) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b)(2), all accounts that are maintained with a debtor in a person's name and that, under this paragraph (b)(2), are deemed to be held by that person in its individual capacity shall be deemed to be held in the same capacity.
(ii) An account maintained with a debtor by a guardian, custodian, or conservator for the benefit of a ward, or for the benefit of a minor under the Uniform Gift to Minors Act, shall be deemed to be held in a separate capacity from accounts held by such guardian, custodian or conservator in its individual capacity.
(iii) An account maintained with a debtor in the name of an executor or administrator of an estate in its capacity as such shall be deemed to be held in a separate capacity from accounts held by such executor or administrator in its individual capacity.
(iv) An account maintained with a debtor in the name of a decedent, in the name of the decedent's estate, or in the name of the executor or administrator of such estate in its capacity as such shall be deemed to be accounts held in the same capacity.
(v) An account maintained with a debtor by a trustee shall be deemed to be held in the individual capacity of the grantor of the trust unless the trust is created by a valid written instrument for a purpose other than avoidance of an offset under the regulations contained in this part. A trust account which is not deemed to be held in the individual capacity of its grantor under this paragraph (b)(2)(v) shall be
deemed to be held in a separate capacity from accounts held in an individual capacity by the trustee, by the grantor or any successor in interest of the grantor, or by any trust beneficiary, and from accounts held by any other trust.
(vi) An account maintained with a debtor by a corporation, partnership, or unincorporated association shall be deemed to be held in a separate capacity from accounts held by the shareholders, partners or members of such corporation, partnership, or unincorporated association, if such entity was created for purposes other than avoidance of an offset under the regulations contained in this part.
(vii) A hedging account of a person shall be deemed to be held in the same capacity as a speculative account of such person.
(viii) Subject to paragraphs (b)(2)(ix) and (xiv) of this section, the futures accounts, foreign futures accounts, delivery accounts, and cleared swaps accounts of the same person shall not be deemed to be held in separate capacities:
Provided, however,
that such accounts may be aggregated only in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(ix) An omnibus customer account for public customers of a futures commission merchant maintained with a debtor shall be deemed to be held in a separate capacity from any omnibus customer account for non-public customers of such futures commission merchant and from any account maintained with the debtor on its own behalf or on behalf of any non-public customer.
(x) A joint account maintained with the debtor shall be deemed to be held in a separate capacity from any account held in an individual capacity by the participants in such account, from any account held in an individual capacity by a commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor for such account, and from any other joint account;
provided, however,
that if such account is not transferred in accordance with §§ 190.04(a) and 190.07, it shall be deemed to be held in the same capacity as any other joint account held by identical participants and a participant's percentage interest therein shall be deemed to be held in the same capacity as any account held in an individual capacity by such participant.
(xi) An account maintained with a debtor in the name of a plan that is subject to the terms of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the regulations in 29 CFR chapter XXV, or similar state, Federal, or foreign laws or regulations applicable to retirement or pension plans, shall be deemed to be held in a separate capacity from an account held in an individual capacity by the plan administrator, any employer, employee, participant, or beneficiary with respect to such plan.
(xii) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an account maintained with a debtor by an agent or nominee for a principal or a beneficial owner shall be deemed to be an account held in the individual capacity of such principal or beneficial owner.
(xiii) With respect to the cleared swaps account class, each individual cleared swaps customer account within each cleared swap omnibus customer account referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(viii) of this section shall be deemed to be held in a separate capacity from each other such individual cleared swaps customer account, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xi) of this section.
(xiv) Accounts held by a customer in separate capacities shall be deemed to be accounts of different customers. The burden of proving that an account is held in a separate capacity shall be upon the customer.
(3)
Step 3-setoffs.
(i) The net equity of one customer account may not be offset against the net equity of any other customer account.
(ii) Any obligation to the debtor owed by a customer which is not required to be included in computing the equity of that customer under paragraph (b)(1) of this section (defined as x), must be deducted from any obligation to the customer owed by the debtor which is not required to be included in computing the equity of that customer (defined as y). If the former amount (x) exceeds the latter (y), the excess (x-y) must be deducted from the equity balance of the customer obtained after performing the preceding
calculations required by paragraph (b) of this section, provided, that if the customer owns more than one class of accounts with a positive equity balance, the excess (again, x-y) must be allocated and offset against each positive equity balance in the same proportion as that positive equity balance bears to the total of all positive equity balances of accounts of different classes held by such customer.
(iii) A negative equity balance obtained with respect to one customer account class must be set off against a positive equity balance in any other account class of such customer held in the same capacity, provided, that if a customer owns more than one class of accounts with a positive equity balance, such negative equity balance must be offset against each positive equity balance in the same proportion as that positive equity balance bears to the total of all positive equity balances in accounts of different classes held by such customer.
(iv) To the extent any indebtedness of the debtor to the customer which is not required to be included in computing the equity of such customer under paragraph (b)(1) of this section exceeds such indebtedness of the customer to the debtor, the customer claim therefor will constitute a general creditor claim rather than a customer property claim, and the net equity therefor shall be separately calculated.
(v) The rules pertaining to separate capacities and permitted setoffs contained in this section shall only be applied subsequent to the entry of an order for relief; prior to that date, the provisions of § 1.22 of this chapter and of sections 4d(a)(2) and 4d(f) of the Act (and, in each case, the regulations in part 1, 22, or 30 of this chapter that implement sections 4d(a)(2) and 4d(f)) shall govern what setoffs are permitted.
(4)
Step 4-correction for distributions.
The value on the date of transfer or distribution of any property transferred or distributed subsequent to the filing date and prior to the primary liquidation date with respect to each class of account held by a customer must be added to the equity obtained for that customer for accounts of that class after performing the steps contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section:
Provided, however,
that if all accounts for which there are customer claims of record and 100% of the equity pertaining thereto is transferred in accordance with § 190.07 and section 764(b) of the Bankruptcy Code, net equity shall be computed based solely upon those allowed customer claims, if any, filed subsequent to the order for relief which are not claims of record on the filing date.
(5)
Step 5-correction for ongoing events.
Compute any adjustments to the steps in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section required to correct misestimates or errors including, without limitation, corrections for ongoing events such as the liquidation of unliquidated claims or specifically identifiable property at a value different from the estimated value previously used in computing net equity.
(c)
Calculation of funded balance. Funded balance
means a customer's pro rata share of the customer estate with respect to each account class available for distribution to customers of the same customer class.
(1)
Funded balance computation.
The funded balance of any customer claim shall be computed (separately by account class and customer class) by:
(i) Multiplying the ratio of the amount of the net equity claim of such customer (defined as x) less the amounts referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section of such customer for any account class (defined as y) divided by the sum of the net equity claims of all customers for accounts of that class (defined as p) less the amounts referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section of all customers for accounts of that class (defined as q) (thus, ((x-y)/(p-q)) by the sum of:
(A) The value of letters of credit received, acquired, or held to margin, guarantee, secure, purchase, or sell a commodity contract relating to all customer accounts of the same class;
(B) The value of the money, securities, or other property segregated on behalf of all customer accounts of the same class less the amounts referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section;
(C) The value of any money, securities, or other property which must be
allocated under § 190.09 to all customer accounts of the same class; and
(D) The amount of any add-back required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section; and
(ii) Then adding 100% of—
(A) Any margin payment made between the entry of the order for relief (or, in an involuntary case, the date on which the petition for bankruptcy is filed) and the primary liquidation date;
provided, however,
that if margin is posted to substitute for a letter of credit, such margin does not increase the funded balance; and
(B) For cash delivery property, any cash transferred to the trustee on or after the filing date for the purpose of paying for delivery.
(2)
Corrections to funded balance.
The funded balance must be adjusted to correct for ongoing events including, without limitation:
(i) Added claimants;
(ii) Disallowed claims;
(iii) Liquidation of unliquidated claims at a value other than their estimated value; and
(iv) Recovery of property.
(d)
Valuation.
In computing net equity, commodity contracts and other property held by or for a commodity broker must be valued as provided in this paragraph (d).
(1)
Commodity contracts
—(i)
Open contracts.
Unless otherwise specified in this paragraph (d), the value of an open commodity contract shall be equal to the settlement price as calculated by the clearing organization pursuant to its rules;
provided, however,
that if an open commodity contract is transferred to another commodity broker, its value on the debtor's books and records shall be determined as of the end of the last settlement cycle on the day preceding such transfer.
(ii)
Liquidated contracts.
Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, the value of a commodity contract liquidated on the open market shall equal the actual value realized on liquidation of the commodity contract.
(A)
Weighted average.
If identical commodity contracts are liquidated within a 24-hour period or business day (or such other period as the bankruptcy court may determine is appropriate) as part of a general liquidation of commodity contracts, but cannot be liquidated at the same price, the trustee may use the weighted average of the liquidation prices in computing the net equity of each customer for which the debtor held such commodity contracts.
(B)
Bulk liquidation.
The value of a commodity contract liquidated as part of a bulk auction, taken into inventory or under management by a clearing organization, or similarly liquidated outside of the open market shall be equal to the settlement price calculated by the clearing organization as of the end of the settlement cycle during which the commodity contract was liquidated.
(2)
Securities.
The value of a listed security shall be equal to the closing price for such security on the exchange upon which it is traded. The value of all securities not traded on an exchange shall be equal in the case of a long position, to the average of the bid prices for long positions, and in the case of a short position, to the average of the asking prices for the short positions. If liquidated, the value of such security shall be equal to the actual value realized on liquidation of the security;
provided, however,
that if identical securities are liquidated within a 24-hour period or business day (or such other period as the bankruptcy court may determine is appropriate) as part of a general liquidation of securities, but cannot be liquidated at the same price, the trustee may use the weighted average of the liquidation prices in computing the net equity of each customer for which the debtor held such securities. Securities which are not publicly traded shall be valued by the trustee pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(3)
Commodities held in inventory.
Commodities held in inventory, as collateral or otherwise, shall be valued at their fair market value. If such fair market value is not readily ascertainable based upon public sources of prices, the trustee shall value such commodities pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(4)
Letters of credit.
The value of any letter of credit received, acquired or held to margin, guarantee, secure, purchase, or sell a commodity contract
shall be its face amount, less the amount, if any, drawn and outstanding, provided that, if the trustee makes a determination in good faith that a draw on a letter of credit is unlikely to be honored on either a temporary or a permanent basis, the trustee shall value the letter of credit pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(5)
All other property.
Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph (d), all other property shall be valued by the trustee using such professional assistance as the trustee deems necessary in its sole discretion under the circumstances;
provided, however,
that if such property is sold, its value for purposes of the calculations required by this part shall be equal to the actual value realized on the sale of such property; and, provided further, that the sale shall be made in compliance with all applicable statutes, rules, and orders of any court or governmental entity with jurisdiction there over.
§ 190.09
Allocation of property and allowance of claims.
The property of the debtor's estate must be allocated among account classes and between customer classes as provided in this section. (Property connected with certain cross-margining arrangements is subject to the provisions of framework 1 in appendix B to this part.) The property so allocated will constitute a separate estate of the customer class and the account class to which it is allocated, and will be designated by reference to such customer class and account class.
(a)
Scope of customer property.
(1) Customer property includes the following:
(i) All cash, securities, or other property or the proceeds of such cash, securities, or other property received, acquired, or held by or for the account of the debtor, from or for the account of a customer, including a non-public customer, which is:
(A) Property received, acquired, or held to margin, guarantee, secure, purchase or sell a commodity contract;
(B) Open commodity contracts;
(C) Physical delivery property as that term is defined in paragraphs (1) through (3) in the definition of that term in § 190.01;
(D) Cash delivery property, or other cash, securities, or other property received by the debtor as payment for a commodity to be delivered to fulfill a commodity contract from or for the commodity customer account of a customer;
(E) Profits or contractual rights accruing to a customer as the result of a commodity contract;
(F) Letters of credit, including any proceeds of a letter of credit drawn by the trustee, or substitute customer property posted by the customer, pursuant to § 190.04(d)(3);
(G) Securities held in a portfolio margining account carried as a futures account or a cleared swaps customer account; or
(H) Property hypothecated under § 1.30 of this chapter to the extent that the value of such property exceeds the proceeds of any loan of margin made with respect thereto; and
(ii) All cash, securities, or other property which:
(A) Is segregated for customers on the filing date;
(B) Is a security owned by the debtor to the extent there are customer claims for securities of the same class and series of an issuer;
(C) Is specifically identifiable to a customer;
(D) Was property of a type described in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section that is subsequently recovered by the avoidance powers of the trustee or is otherwise recovered by the trustee on any other claim or basis;
(E) Represents recovery of any debit balance, margin deficit, or other claim of the debtor against a customer;
(F) Was unlawfully converted but is part of the debtor's estate;
(G) Constitutes current assets of the debtor (as of the date of the order for relief) within the meaning of § 1.17(c)(2) of this chapter, including the debtor's trading or operating accounts and commodities of the debtor held in inventory, in the greater of—
(
1
) The amount that the debtor is obligated to set aside as its targeted residual interest amount pursuant to § 1.11 of this chapter and the debtor's residual interest policies adopted thereunder, with respect to each of the
futures account class, the foreign futures account class, and the cleared swaps account class; or
(
2
) The debtor's obligations to cover debit balances or under-margined amounts as provided in §§ 1.20, 1.22, 22.2, and 30.7 of this chapter;
(H) Is other property of the debtor that any applicable law, rule, regulation, or order requires to be set aside for the benefit of customers;
(I) Is property of the debtor's estate recovered by the Commission in any proceeding brought against the principals, agents, or employees of the debtor;
(J) Is proceeds from the investment of customer property by the trustee pending final distribution;
(K) Is a payment from an insurer to the trustee arising from or related to a claim related to the conversion or misuse of customer property; or
(L) Is cash, securities, or other property of the debtor's estate, including the debtor's trading or operating accounts and commodities of the debtor held in inventory, but only to the extent that the property enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(F) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (K) of this section is insufficient to satisfy in full all claims of public customers. Such property includes “customer property,” as defined in section 16(4) of SIPA, 15 U.S.C. 78lll(4), that remains after allocation in accordance with section 8(c)(1)(A)-(D) of SIPA, 15 U.S.C. 78fff-2(c)(1)(A)-(D) and that is allocated to the debtor's general estate in accordance with section 8(c)(1) of SIPA, 15 U.S.C. 78fff-2(c)(1).
(2) Customer property will not include:
(i) Claims against the debtor for damages for any wrongdoing of the debtor, including claims for misrepresentation or fraud, or for any violation of the Act or of the regulations in this chapter;
(ii) Other claims for property which are not based upon property received, acquired, or held by or for the account of the debtor, from or for the account of the customer;
(iii) Forward contracts (unless such contracts are cleared by a clearing organization or, in the case of forward contracts treated as foreign futures, a foreign clearing organization);
(iv) Physical delivery property that is not held by the debtor, and is delivered or received by a customer in accordance with § 190.06(a)(2) or § 190.16(a) to fulfill the customer's delivery obligation under a commodity contract;
(v) Property deposited by a customer with a commodity broker after the entry of an order for relief which is not necessary to meet the margin requirements applicable to the accounts of such customer;
(vi) Property hypothecated pursuant to § 1.30 of this chapter to the extent of the loan of margin with respect thereto;
(vii) Money, securities, or property held to margin, guarantee or secure security futures products, or accruing as a result of such products, if held in a securities account; and
(viii) Money, securities, or property held in a securities account to fulfill delivery, under a commodity contract from or for the account of a customer, as described in § 190.06(b)(2).
(3) Nothing contained in this section, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of customer claims by operation of this section, shall prevent a trustee from asserting claims against any person to recover the shortfall of property enumerated in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(F) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (L) of this section.
(b)
Allocation of customer property between customer classes.
No customer property may be allocated to pay non-public customer claims until all public customer claims have been satisfied in full. Any property segregated on behalf of or attributable to non-public customers must be treated initially as part of the public customer estate and allocated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(c)
Allocation of customer property among account classes
—(1)
Property identified to an account class
—(i)
Segregated property.
Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, property held by or for the account of a customer, which is segregated on behalf of a specific account class, or readily traceable on the filing date to customers of such account class, or recovered by the trustee on
behalf of or for the benefit of an account class, must be allocated to the customer estate of the account class for which it is segregated, to which it is readily traceable, or for which it is recovered.
(ii)
Excess property.
If, after payment in full of all allowed customer claims in a particular account class, any property remains allocated to that account class, such excess shall be allocated in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
All other property.
Money, securities, and property received from or for the account of customers which cannot be allocated in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, must be allocated in the following order:
(i) To the estate of the account class for which, after the allocation required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the percentage of each public customer net equity claim which is funded is the lowest, until the funded percentage of net equity claims of such class equals the percentage of each public customer's net equity claim which is funded for the account class with the next lowest percentage of the funded claims; and then
(ii) To the estate of the two account classes referred to in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section so that the percentage of the net equity claims which are funded for each class remains equal until the percentage of each public customer net equity claim which is funded equals the percentage of each public customer net equity claim which is funded for the account class with the next lowest percentage of funded claims, and so forth, until the percentage of each public customer net equity claim which is funded is equal for all classes of accounts; and then,
(iii) Among account classes in the same proportion as the public customer net equity claims for each such account class bears to the total of public customer net equity claims of all account classes until the public customer claims of each account class are paid in full; and, thereafter,
(iv) To the non-public customer estate for each account class in the same order as is prescribed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section for the allocation of the customer estate among account classes.
(d)
Distribution of customer property
—(1)
Return or transfer of specifically identifiable property.
Specifically identifiable property not required to be liquidated under § 190.04(d)(2) may be returned or transferred on behalf of the customer to which it is identified:
(i) If it is margining an open commodity contract, only if substitute customer property is first deposited with the trustee with a value equal to the greater of the full fair market value of such property on the return date or the balance due on the return date on any loan by the debtor to the customer for which such property constitutes security; or
(ii) If it is not margining an open commodity contract, at the option of the customer, either pursuant to the terms of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, or pursuant to the following terms: Such customer first deposits substitute customer property with the trustee with a value equal to the amount by which the greater of the value of the specifically identifiable property to be transferred or returned on the date of such transfer or return or the balance due on the return date on any loan by the debtor to the customer for which such property constitutes security, together with any other disbursements made, or to be made, to such customer, plus a reasonable reserve in the trustee's sole discretion, exceeds the estimated aggregate of the funded balances for each class of account of such customer less the value on the date of its transfer or return of any property transferred or returned prior to the primary liquidation date with respect to the customer's net equity claim for such account;
provided, however,
that adequate security to assure the recovery of any overpayments by the trustee is provided to the debtor's estate by the customer.
(2)
Transfers of specifically identifiable commodity contracts under section 766 of the Bankruptcy Code.
Any open commodity contract that is specifically identifiable property and which is not required to be liquidated under § 190.04(d), and which is not otherwise liquidated, may be transferred on behalf of a public customer,
provided,
however,
that such customer must first deposit substitute customer property with the trustee with a value equal to the amount by which the equity to be transferred to margin such contract together with any other transfers or returns of specifically identifiable property or disbursements made, or to be made, to such customer, plus a reasonable reserve in the trustee's sole discretion, exceeds the estimated aggregate of the funded balances for each class of account of such customer less the value on the date of its transfer or return of any property transferred or returned prior to the primary liquidation date with respect to the customer's net equity claim for such account; and, provided further, that adequate security to assure the recovery of any overpayments by the trustee is provided to the debtor's estate by the customer.
(3)
Distribution in kind of specifically identifiable securities.
If any securities of a customer are specifically identifiable property as defined in paragraph (1)(i)(A) of the definition of that term in § 190.01 of this chapter, but the customer has no open commodity contracts, the customer may request that the trustee purchase or otherwise obtain the largest whole number of like-kind securities (
i.e.,
securities of the same class and series of an issuer), with a fair market value (inclusive of transaction costs) which does not exceed that portion of the funded balance of such customer's allowed net equity claim that constitutes a claim for securities, if like-kind securities can be purchased in a fair and orderly manner.
(4)
Proof of customer claim.
No distribution shall be made pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (3) of this section prior to receipt of a completed proof of customer claim as described in § 190.03(e) or (f).
(5)
No differential distributions.
No further disbursements may be made to customers with respect to a particular account class for whom transfers have been made pursuant to § 190.07 and paragraph (d)(2) of this section, until a percentage of each net equity claim equivalent to the percentage distributed to such customers is distributed to all public customers in such account class. Partial distributions, other than the transfers referred to in § 190.07 and paragraph (d)(2) of this section, with respect to a particular account class made prior to the final net equity determination date must be made pursuant to a preliminary plan of distribution approved by the court, upon notice to the parties and to all customers, which plan requires adequate security to the debtor's estate to assure the recovery of any overpayments by the trustee and distributes an equal percentage of net equity to all public customers in such account class.
§ 190.10
Current records during business as usual.
A person that is a futures commission merchant is required to maintain current records relating to its customers' accounts, including copies of all account agreements and related account documentation, and “know your customer” materials, pursuant to §§ 1.31, 1.35, 1.36, and 1.37 of this chapter, which may be provided to another futures commission merchant to facilitate the transfer of open commodity contracts or other customer property held by such person for or on behalf of its customers to the other futures commission merchant, in the event an order for relief is entered with respect to such person.

# Subpart C—Clearing Organization as Debtor
§ 190.11
Scope and purpose of this subpart.
(a) This subpart applies to a proceeding commenced under subchapter IV of chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code in which the debtor is a clearing organization.
(b) If the debtor clearing organization is organized outside the United States, and is subject to a foreign proceeding, as defined in 11 U.S.C. 101(23), in the jurisdiction in which it is organized, then only the following provisions of this part shall apply:
(1) Subpart A.
(2) Section 190.12.
(3) Section 190.13, but only with respect to futures contracts and cleared swaps contracts cleared by FCM clearing members on behalf of their public customers and the property margining or securing such contracts.
(4) Sections 190.17 and 190.18, but only with respect to claims of FCM clearing members on behalf of their public customers, as well as to property that is or should have been segregated for the benefit of FCM clearing members' public customers, or that has been recovered for the benefit of FCM clearing members' public customers.
§ 190.12
Required reports and records.
(a)
Notices
—(1)
Means of providing
—(i)
To the Commission.
Unless instructed otherwise by the Commission, all mandatory or discretionary notices to be given to the Commission under this subpart shall be directed by electronic mail to
bankruptcyfilings@cftc.gov.
For purposes of this subpart, notice to the Commission shall be deemed to be given only upon actual receipt.
(ii)
To members.
The trustee, after consultation with the Commission, and unless otherwise instructed by the Commission, will establish and follow procedures reasonably designed for giving adequate notice to members under this subpart and for receiving claims or other notices from members. Such procedures should include, absent good cause otherwise, the use of a prominent website as well as communication to members' electronic addresses that are available in the debtor's books and records.
(2)
Of commencement of a proceeding.
A debtor that files a petition in bankruptcy that is subject to this subpart shall, at or before the time of such filing, and a debtor against which such a petition is filed shall, as soon as possible, but in any event no later than three hours after the receipt of notice of such filing, notify the Commission of the filing date, the court in which the proceeding has been or will be filed, and, as soon as available, the docket number assigned to that proceeding by the court.
(b)
Reports and records to be provided to the trustee and the Commission within three hours.
(1) As soon as practicable following the commencement of a proceeding that is subject to this subpart and in any event no later than three hours following the later of the commencement of such proceeding or the appointment of the trustee, the debtor shall provide to the trustee copies of each of the most recent reports that the debtor was required to file with the Commission under § 39.19(c) of this chapter, including copies of any reports required under § 39.19(c)(2), (3), and (4) of this chapter (including the most up-to-date version of any recovery and wind-down plans of the debtor maintained pursuant to § 39.39(b) of this chapter) that the debtor filed with the Commission during the preceding 12 months.
(2) As soon as practicable following the commencement of a proceeding that is subject to this subpart and in any event no later than three hours following the commencement of such proceeding (or, with respect to the trustee, the appointment of the trustee), the debtor shall provide to the trustee and the Commission copies of the most up-to-date versions of the default management plan and default rules and procedures maintained by the debtor pursuant to § 39.16 and, as applicable, § 39.35 of this chapter.
(c)
Records to be provided to the trustee and the Commission by the next business day.
As soon as practicable following commencement of a proceeding that is subject to this subpart and in any event no later than the next business day, the debtor shall make available to the trustee and the Commission copies of the following records:
(1) All records maintained by the debtor described in § 39.20(a) of this chapter; and
(2) Any opinions of counsel or other legal memoranda provided to the debtor (whether by external or internal counsel) in the five years preceding the commencement of such proceeding relating to the enforceability of the rules and procedures of the debtor in the event of an insolvency proceeding involving the debtor.
§ 190.13
Prohibition on avoidance of transfers.
The following transfers are approved and may not be avoided under sections 544, 546, 547, 548, 549, or 724(a) of the Bankruptcy Code:
(a)
Pre-relief transfers.
Any transfer of open commodity contracts and the property margining or securing such contracts made to another clearing organization that was approved by the
Commission, either before or after such transfer, and was made prior to entry of the order for relief; and
(b)
Post-relief transfers.
Any transfers of open commodity contracts and the property margining or securing such contracts made to another clearing organization on or before the seventh calendar day after the entry of the order for relief, that was made with the approval of the Commission, either before or after such transfer.
§ 190.14
Operation of the estate of the debtor subsequent to the filing date.
(a)
Proofs of claim.
The trustee may, in its discretion based upon the facts and circumstances of the case, instruct each customer to file a proof of claim containing such information as is deemed appropriate by the trustee, and seek a court order establishing a bar date for the filing of such proofs of claim.
(b)
Operation of the derivatives clearing organization.
Subsequent to the order for relief, the derivatives clearing organization shall cease making calls for variation settlement or initial margin.
(c)
Liquidation.
(1) The trustee shall liquidate all open commodity contracts that have not been terminated, liquidated, or transferred no later than seven calendar days after entry of the order for relief. Such liquidation of open commodity contracts shall be conducted in accordance with the rules and procedures of the debtor, to the extent applicable and practicable.
(2) In lieu of liquidating securities held by the debtor and making distributions in the form of cash, the trustee may, in its reasonable discretion, make distributions in the form of securities that are equivalent (
i.e.,
securities of the same class and series of an issuer) to the securities originally delivered to the debtor by a clearing member or such clearing member's customer.
(d)
Computation of funded balance.
The trustee shall use reasonable efforts to compute a funded balance for each customer account immediately prior to any distribution of property within the account, which shall be as accurate as reasonably practicable under the circumstances, including the reliability and availability of information.
§ 190.15
Recovery and wind-down plans; default rules and procedures.
(a)
Prohibition on avoidance of actions taken pursuant to recovery and wind-down plans.
Subject to the provisions of section 766 of the Bankruptcy Code and §§ 190.13 and 190.18, the trustee shall not avoid or prohibit any action taken by a debtor subject to this subpart that was reasonably within the scope of and was provided for in any recovery and wind-down plans maintained by the debtor and filed with the Commission pursuant to § 39.39 of this chapter.
(b)
Implementation of debtor's default rules and procedures.
In administering a proceeding under this subpart, the trustee shall implement, in consultation with the Commission, the default rules and procedures maintained by the debtor under § 39.16 and, as applicable, § 39.35 of this chapter and any termination, close-out and liquidation provisions included in the rules of the debtor, subject to the reasonable discretion of the trustee and to the extent that implementation of such default rules and procedures is practicable.
(c)
Implementation of recovery and wind-down plans.
In administering a proceeding under this subpart, the trustee shall, in consultation with the Commission, take actions in accordance with any recovery and wind-down plans maintained by the debtor and filed with the Commission pursuant to § 39.39 of this chapter, to the extent reasonable and practicable, and consistent with the protection of customers.
§ 190.16
Delivery.
(a)
General.
In the event that a commodity contract, cleared by the derivatives clearing organization, that settles upon expiration or exercise by making or taking delivery of physical delivery property, has moved into delivery position prior to the date and time of the order for relief, or moves into delivery position after that date and time, but before being terminated, liquidated, or transferred, then, in either such event, the trustee must use
reasonable efforts to facilitate and cooperate with the completion of delivery on behalf of the clearing member or the clearing member's customer in a manner consistent with § 190.06(a) and the pro rata distribution principle addressed in § 190.00(c)(5).
(b)
Special provisions for delivery accounts.
(1) Consistent with the separation of the physical delivery property account class and the cash delivery account class set forth in § 190.06(b), the trustee shall treat—
(i) Physical delivery property held in delivery accounts as of the filing date, along with the proceeds from any subsequent sale of such physical delivery property in accordance with § 190.06(a)(3) to fulfill a clearing member's or its customer's delivery obligation or any other subsequent sale of such property, as part of the physical delivery account class; and
(ii) Cash delivery property in delivery accounts as of the filing date, along with any physical delivery property for which delivery is subsequently taken on behalf of a clearing member or its customer in accordance with § 190.06(a)(3), as part of the separate cash delivery account class.
(2) If the debtor holds any cash or property in the form of cash equivalents in an account with a bank or other person under a name or in a manner that clearly indicates that the account holds property for the purpose of making payment for taking physical delivery, or receiving payment for making physical delivery, of a commodity under any commodity contracts, such property shall (subject to § 190.19) be considered customer property in the cash delivery account class if held for making payment for taking delivery, or in the physical delivery account class, if held for the purpose of receiving such payment.
§ 190.17
Calculation of net equity.
(a)
Net equity-separate capacities and calculations.
(1) If a member of the clearing organization clears trades in commodity contracts through a commodity contract account carried by the debtor as a customer account for the benefit of the clearing member's public customers and separately through a house account, the clearing member shall be treated as having customer claims against the debtor in separate capacities with respect to the customer account and house account at the clearing organization, and by account class. A member shall be treated as part of the public customer class with respect to claims based on any commodity customer accounts carried as “customer accounts” by the clearing organization for the benefit of the member's public customers, and as part of the non-public customer class with respect to claims based on its house account.
(2) Net equity shall be calculated separately for each separate customer capacity in which the clearing member has a claim against the debtor,
i.e.,
separately by the member's customer account and house account and by account class.
(b)
Net equity—application of debtor's loss allocation rules and procedures.
(1)(i) The calculation of a clearing member's net equity claim shall include the full application of the debtor's loss allocation rules and procedures, including the default rules and procedures referred to in § 39.16 and, if applicable, § 39.35 of this chapter.
(ii) The calculation in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section will include, with respect to the clearing member's house account, any assessments or similar loss allocation arrangements provided for under those rules and procedures that were not called for before the filing date, or, if called for, have not been paid. Such loss allocation arrangements shall be applied to the extent necessary to address losses arising from default by clearing members.
(2) Appropriate adjustments shall be made to the net equity claims of the clearing members that are so entitled under the following circumstances: Where the debtor's loss allocation rules and procedures would entitle clearing members to additional payments of cash or other property due to—
(i) Portions of mutualized default resources that are prefunded, or assessed and collected, but in either event not used; or
(ii) The debtor's recoveries on claims against others (including, but not limited to, recoveries on claims against
clearing members who have defaulted on their obligations to the debtor).
(c)
Net equity—general.
Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, net equity shall be calculated in the manner provided in § 190.08, to the extent applicable.
(d)
Calculation of funded balance. Funded balance
means a clearing member's pro rata share of customer property other than member property (for accounts for a clearing member's customer accounts) or member property (for a clearing member's house accounts) with respect to each account class available for distribution to customers of the same customer class, calculated in the manner provided in § 190.08(c) to the extent applicable.
§ 190.18
Treatment of property.
(a)
General.
The property of the debtor's estate must be allocated between member property and customer property other than member property as provided in this section to satisfy claims of clearing members, as customers of the debtor. The property so allocated will constitute a separate estate of the customer class (
i.e.,
member property, and customer property other than member property) and the account class to which it is allocated, and will be designated by reference to such customer class and account class.
(b)
Scope of customer property.
Customer property is the property available for distribution within the relevant account class in respect of claims by clearing members, as customers of the clearing organization, based on customer accounts carried by the debtor for the benefit of such members' public customers or, considered separately, such members' house accounts.
(1) Customer property includes the following:
(i) All cash, securities, or other property, or the proceeds of such cash, securities, or other property, that is received, acquired, or held by or for the account of the debtor, from or for any commodity contract account of a clearing member carried by the debtor, which is:
(A) Property received, acquired, or held, in order to margin, guarantee, secure, purchase, or sell a commodity contract;
(B) Open commodity contracts;
(C) Physical delivery property as that term is defined in paragraphs (1) through (3) of the definition of that term in § 190.01;
(D) Cash, securities or other property received by the debtor as payment for a commodity to be delivered to fulfill a commodity contract from or for the commodity customer account of a clearing member or a customer of a clearing member;
(E) Profits or contractual rights accruing as a result of a commodity contract;
(F) Letters of credit, including any proceeds of a letter of credit drawn upon by the trustee, or substitute customer property posted by a clearing member or a customer of a clearing member, pursuant to § 190.04(d)(3); or
(G) Securities held in a portfolio margining account carried as a futures account or a cleared swaps customer account;
(ii) All cash, securities, or other property which:
(A) Is segregated by the debtor on the filing date for the benefit of clearing members' house accounts or clearing members' public customer accounts;
(B) Was of a type described in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section that is subsequently recovered by the avoidance powers of the trustee or is otherwise recovered by the trustee on any other claim or basis;
(C) Represents a recovery of any debit balance, margin deficit or other claim of the debtor against any commodity contract account carried for the benefit of a member's house accounts or a member's public customer accounts;
(D) Was unlawfully converted but is part of the debtor's estate; or
(E) Was of a type described in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(H) through (K) of § 190.09 (as if the term debtor used therein refers to a clearing organization as debtor);
(iii) Any guaranty fund deposit, assessment, or similar payment or deposit made by a clearing member, or recovered by the trustee, to the extent any remains following administration
of the debtor's default rules and procedures, and any other property of a member available under the debtor's rules and procedures to satisfy claims made by or on behalf of public customers of a member; and
(iv) Amounts of its own funds that the debtor had committed as part of its loss allocation rules, to the extent that such amounts have not already been applied under such rules.
(2) Customer property will not include property of the type described in § 190.09(a)(2), as if the term debtor used therein refers to a clearing organization and to the extent relevant to a clearing organization.
(c)
Allocation of customer property between customer classes.
(1) Where the funded balance for members' house accounts is greater than one hundred percent with respect to any account class:
(i) Any excess should be allocated to customer property other than member property to the extent that the funded balance is less than one hundred percent of net equity claims for members' public customers in any account class; and
(ii) Any remaining excess after the application of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section should be allocated to member property to the extent that the funded balance is less than one hundred percent of net equity claims for members' house accounts in any other account class.
(2) Where the funded balance for members' public customers in any account class is greater than one hundred percent:
(i) Any excess should be allocated to customer property other than member property to the extent that the funded balance is less than one hundred percent of net equity claims for members' public customers in any other account class; and
(ii) Any remaining excess after the application of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section should be allocated to member property to the extent that the funded balance is less than one hundred percent of net equity claims for members' house accounts in any account class.
(d)
Allocation of customer property among account classes
—(1)
Segregated property.
Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, property held by or for the account of a customer, which is segregated on behalf of a specific account class within a customer class, or readily traceable on the filing date to customers of such account class within a customer class, or recovered by the trustee on behalf of or for the benefit of an account class within a customer class, must be allocated to the customer estate of the account class for which it is segregated, to which it is readily traceable, or for which it is recovered.
(2)
All other property.
Customer property which cannot be allocated in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, shall be allocated within customer classes, but between account classes, in the following order:
(i) To the estate of the account class for which the percentage of each members' net equity claim which is funded is the lowest, until the funded percentage of net equity claims of such account class equals the percentage of each members' net equity claim which is funded for the account class with the next lowest percentage of the funded claims; and then
(ii) To the estate of the two account classes so that the percentage of the net equity claims which are funded for each such account class remains equal until the percentage of each net equity claim which is funded equals the percentage of each net equity claim which is funded for the account class with the next lowest percentage of funded claims, and so forth, until all account classes within the customer class are fully funded.
(e)
Accounts without separation by account class.
Where the debtor has, prior to the order for relief, kept initial margin for house accounts in accounts without separation by account class, then member property will be considered to be in a single account class.
(f)
Assertion of claims by trustee.
Nothing in this section, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of customer claims by operation of this section, shall prevent a trustee from asserting claims against any person to recover the shortfall of property enumerated in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(E) and (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
§ 190.19
Support of daily settlement.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, funds received (whether from clearing members' house or customer accounts) by a debtor clearing organization as part of the daily settlement required pursuant to § 39.14 of this chapter shall, upon and after an order for relief, be included as customer property that is reserved for and traceable to, and promptly shall be distributed to, members entitled to payments of such funds with respect to such members' house and customer accounts as part of that same daily settlement. Such funds when received, other than deposits of initial margin described in § 39.14(a)(1)(iii) of this chapter, shall be considered member property and, separately, customer property other than member property, in proportion to the ratio of total gains in member accounts with net gains, and total gains in clearing members' customer accounts with net gains, respectively. Deposits of initial margin described in § 39.14(a)(1)(iii) of this chapter shall be considered member property and, separately, customer property other than member property, to the extent deposited on behalf of, respectively, clearing members' house accounts and customer accounts.
(b) To the extent there is a shortfall in funds received pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Such funds shall be supplemented with the property described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable, to the extent necessary to meet the shortfall, in accordance with the derivatives clearing organization's default rules and procedures adopted pursuant to § 39.16 and, as applicable, § 39.35 of this chapter, and (with respect to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section) any recovery and wind-down plans maintained pursuant to § 39.39 of this chapter and submitted pursuant to § 39.19 of this chapter. Such funds shall be included as member property and customer property other than member property in the proportion described in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall be distributed promptly to members' house accounts and members' customer accounts which accounts are entitled to payment of such funds as part of that daily settlement.
(i) Initial margin held for the account of a member, including initial margin segregated for the customers of such member, that has defaulted on payments required pursuant to a daily settlement, but only to the extent that such margin is permitted to be used pursuant to parts 1, 22, and 30 of this chapter.
(ii) Assets of the debtor, to the extent dedicated to such use as part of the debtor's default rules and procedures, and any recovery and wind-down plans, described in this paragraph (b)(1).
(iii) Prefunded guarantee or default funds maintained pursuant to the debtor's default rules and procedures.
(iv) Payments made by members pursuant to assessment powers maintained pursuant to the debtor's default rules and procedures.
(2) If the funds that are included as customer property pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, supplemented as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, are insufficient to pay in full members entitled to payment of such funds as part of daily settlement, then such funds shall be distributed pro rata to such members' house accounts and customer accounts in proportion to the ratio of total gains in member accounts with net gains, and total gains in customer accounts with net gains, respectively.
Pt. 190, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 190—Customer Proof of Claim Form
ER13AP21.000
ER13AP21.001
ER13AP21.002
ER13AP21.003
ER13AP21.004
ER13AP21.005
ER13AP21.006
ER13AP21.007
ER13AP21.008
ER13AP21.009
Pt. 190, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 190—Special Bankruptcy Distributions

# Framework 1—Special Distribution of Customer Funds When the Cross-Margining Account Is a Futures Account
(a) This framework 1 applies when a debtor futures commission merchant has participated in a cross-margining (“XM”) program for futures and securities under which the cross-margined positions of its futures customers (as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter) and the property received to margin, secure or guarantee such positions are held in one or more accounts pursuant to a Commission order that requires such positions and property to be segregated, pursuant to section 4d(a) of the Act, from the positions and property of:
(1) The futures commission merchant;
(2) If applicable, any affiliate carrying the securities positions as a participant in the XM program (“Affiliate”); and
(3) Other futures customers of the futures commission merchant (such segregated accounts, the “XM accounts”).
(b) The futures commission merchant may, and any Affiliate that holds the securities positions in an XM account that it directly carries will, be registered as a broker-dealer under the Exchange Act. The Commission order approving the XM program may limit participating customers to market professionals and will require a participating customer to sign an agreement, in a form approved by the Commission, that refers to this distributional rule.
(c) A futures commission merchant is deemed to receive securities held in an XM account, including securities and other property held by an Affiliate in an XM account, as “futures customer funds” (as defined in § 1.3 of this chapter) that margin, guarantee or secure commodity contracts in the XM account (or paired XM accounts at the futures commission merchant and an Affiliate).
Under the agreement signed by the customer, in the event that the futures commission merchant (or Affiliate) is the subject of a SIPA proceeding, the customer agrees that securities in an XM account are excluded from the securities estate for purposes of SIPA, and that its claim for return of the securities will not be treated as a customer claim under SIPA. These restrictions apply to the customer only, and should not be read to limit any action that the trustee may take to seek recovery of property in an XM account carried by an Affiliate as part of the customer estate of the futures commission merchant.
(d) XM accounts, and other futures accounts that are subject to segregation under section 4d(a) of the Act (pursuant to the Commission's regulations in part 1 of this chapter) (“non-XM accounts”), are treated as two subclasses of futures account with two separate pools of segregated futures customer property, an XM pool and a non-XM pool, each of which constitutes a segregated pool under section 4d(a) of the Act. If the futures commission merchant has participated in multiple XM programs, the XM accounts in the different programs are combined and treated as part of the same XM subclass of futures accounts. A futures customer could hold both non-XM and XM accounts.
(e) Customer claims under this part arising out of the XM subclass of accounts are subordinated to customer claims arising out of the non-XM subclass of accounts in certain circumstances in which the futures commission merchant does not meet its segregation requirements. The segregation requirement is the amount of futures customer funds that the futures commission merchant is required by the Act and Commission regulations in part 1 of this chapter or Commission orders to hold on deposit in segregated accounts on behalf of its futures customers (exclusive of its targeted residual amount obligations pursuant to § 1.3 of this chapter).
(f)(1) If there is a shortfall in the non-XM pool and no shortfall in the XM pool, all customer net equity claims, whether or not they arise out of the XM subclass of accounts, will be combined and paid pro rata out of the combined XM and non-XM pools of futures customer property.
(2) If there is a shortfall in the XM pool and no shortfall in the non-XM pool, customer net equity claims arising from the XM subclass of accounts must be satisfied first from the XM pool, and customer net equity claims arising from the non-XM subclass of accounts must be satisfied first from the non-XM pool.
(3) If there is a shortfall in both the non-XM and XM pools:
(i) If the non-XM shortfall as a percentage of the segregation requirement for the non-XM pool is greater than or equal to the XM shortfall as a percentage of the segregation requirement for the XM pool, all customer net equity claims will be paid pro rata out of the combined XM and non-XM pools of futures customer property; and
(ii) If the XM shortfall as a percentage of the segregation requirement for the XM pool is greater than the non-XM shortfall as a percentage of the segregation requirement for the non-XM pool, non-XM customer net equity claims will be paid pro rata out of the available non-XM pool, and XM customer net equity claims will be paid pro rata out of the available XM pool.
(4) In this way, non-XM customers will never be adversely affected by an XM shortfall.
(g) The following examples illustrate the operation of this framework 1. The examples assume that the FCM has two futures customers, one with exclusively XM accounts and one with exclusively non-XM accounts.
ER13AP21.010
ER13AP21.011

# Framework 2—Special Allocation of Shortfall to Customer Claims When Customer Funds for Futures Contracts and Cleared Swaps Customer Collateral are Held in a Depository Outside of the United States or in a Foreign Currency
The Commission has established the following allocation convention with respect to futures customer funds (as § 1.3 of this chapter defines such term) and Cleared Swaps Customer Collateral (as § 22.1 of this chapter defines such term) (both of which are customer funds (as § 1.3 of this chapter defines such term) that are segregated pursuant to the Act and Commission rules thereunder), which applies in certain circumstances when futures customer funds or Cleared Swaps Customer Collateral are held by a futures commission merchant in a depository outside the United States (“U.S.”) or in a foreign currency. If a futures commission merchant enters into bankruptcy and maintains futures customer funds or Cleared Swaps Customer Collateral in a depository outside the U.S. or in a depository located in the U.S. in a currency other than U.S. dollars, the trustee shall use the following allocation procedures to calculate the claim of each public customer in the futures account class or each public customer in the cleared swaps account class, as applicable, when a sovereign action of a foreign government or court has occurred that contributes to shortfalls in the amounts of futures customer funds or Cleared Swaps Customer Collateral. In the event a sovereign action creates or
contributes to a shortfall in customer property, applying the allocation convention will result in a reallocation of distributions of futures customer funds or Cleared Swaps Collateral to take into account the impact of the sovereign action. For purposes of this bankruptcy convention, sovereign action of a foreign government or court would include, but not be limited to, the application or enforcement of statutes, rules, regulations, interpretations, advisories, decisions, or orders, formal or informal, by a Federal, state, or provincial executive, legislature, judiciary, or government agency. The trustee should perform the allocation procedures separately with respect to each public customer in the futures account class or cleared swaps account class.
ER13AP21.012
ER13AP21.013
ER13AP21.014
ER13AP21.015
ER13AP21.016
ER13AP21.017
ER13AP21.018
ER13AP21.019
ER13AP21.020
ER13AP21.021
ER13AP21.022
ER13AP21.023
ER13AP21.024
ER13AP21.025
ER13AP21.026
ER13AP21.027
PARTS 191-199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
17 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
17 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
41.45 (b)(1) revised
75146
43.1 (b) and (d) removed; (c) redesignated as new (b); new (b) revised
75476
43.2 Revised
75476
43.3 (g) and (h) removed; (i) redesignated as new (g); (a) through (d), (f), and new (g) revised
75478
43.3 (e) revised
75653
43.4 Revised
75479
43.5 Revised
75481
43.6 Revised
75482
43.7 (a)(1) through (3) revised; (a)(4) added
75485
43 Appendix A revised
75485
43 Appendix C revised
75495
43 Appendix D and Appendix E revised
75496
45.1 Revised
75559
45.1 (a) amended
75654
45.2 (a) introductory text, (b), (h) amended; nomenclature change
75560
45.2 (f) and (g) removed
75654
45.3 Revised
75561
45.4 Revised
75561
45.5 Heading, (a)(1)(i), (b)(1)(i), (2)(ii), (c) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (i), (d) introductory text, (1)(i), and (f) revised; introductory text, (a)(1) introductory text, (b) heading, introductory text, (1) introductory text, (ii), (d)(1) introductory text, (e)(1) introductory text, (2)(i), and (ii) amended; (g) and (h) added; nomenclature change
75562
45.6 Revised
75563
45.7 Introductory text amended
75563
45.8 Heading and introductory text revised; (h) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (vii)(D), (2), and section amended
75563
45.9 Amended
75564
45.10 Revised
75564
45.11 Revised
75565
45.12 Removed
75565
45.13 Revised
75565
45.14 Revised
75654
45.15 Added
75565
45 Appendix 1 revised
75566
46.1 Introductory text redesignated as (a) introductory text and revised; (b) added; section amended
75594
46.2 Nomenclature change
75594
46.3 Heading and (a)(2)(i) revised; (a)(1)(iii)(A) and (3)(i) amended
75594
46.4 Introductory text, (a), and (d) amended
75594
46.5 (a) introductory text, (3) through (5), and (d)(3) amended
75594
46.6 Amended
75594
46.8 (a), (c)(2)(ii), and (d) amended
75594
46.9 (a) and (f) amended
75594
46.10 Amended
75594
46.11 (a) amended; (b) removed; (c) and (d) redesignated as new (b) and (c); new (c) revised
75595
49 Authority citation revised
75595, 75656
49 Nomenclature change
75672
49.2 (a) amended
75595
49.2 (a) amended; (b) revised
75656
49.3 (a)(5) revised; (d) amended
75657
49.4 (a)(1) introductory text, (i) through (iii), and (c) amended; (a)(1)(iv) removed; (a)(2) revised
75595
49.4 (c) heading revised
75657
49.5 Revised
75657
49.6 Revised
75657
49.9 Revised
75657
49.10 Revised
75595
49.10 (e) added
75657
49.11 Revised
75658
49.12 Revised
75658
49.13 (a) and (b) heading revised
75659
49.15 Revised
75659
49.16 Revised
75659
49.17 (i) removed; (b)(3), (c)(1), (d)(1) heading, (5) heading, (f)(2) revised; (c) introductory text added; (a), (b)(1) heading, introductory text, (2) heading, (2), (c)(2), (3), (d)(1)(i), (ii), (3) heading, (3), (4) heading, (i), (iii), (5)(i) through (iii), (6) heading, (6), (e) introductory text, (1), (2), (f)(1), (g) heading, introductory text, (1), (2)(A), (B), (3), (h)(3) introductory text, and (4) amended
75659
49.18 (a) and (b) amended; (e) removed
75661
49.19 (a) amended
75661
49.20 (b)(2)(v), (vii), and (c)(1)(ii)(B) revised; (b) heading, (c)(1)(i) introductory text, (A)(
2
), (B), and (c)(5) amended
75661
49.22 (a) heading, (b)(1) heading, (2) heading, (i), (d)(1), (4), (e)(2) introductory text, (i), (f)(3), and (g)(1)(iii)(A) amended; (c)(1) heading, (f) heading, and (2) revised
75661
49.23 (a) and (e) heading amended
75661
49.24 (d) revised; (a) introductory text, (e)(3)(i), (ii), (f)(2), (i) introductory text, (5), (j)(1), (k)(1), (2), (l)(3), and (m) amended
75661
49.25 (a)(1) revised
75662
49.26 Introductory text revised; (a), (c) through (e), (h), and (i) amended; (j) added
75662
49.27 (a)(2) and (b)(1) amended
75662
49.28 Added
75662
49.29 Added
75663
49.30 Added
75663
49.31 Added
75663
49 Appendix A revised
75663
49 Appendix B revised
75671
50 Authority citation revised
44181, 76446
50.25—50.49 (Subpart B) Heading revised
76446
50.26 Added
76446
50.50—50.52 (Subpart C) Heading revised
76448
50.50 Heading and (b)(1)(iii)(A)(
2
) revised; (d) removed
76448
50.51 Heading, (a)(3)(i), and (ii) revised
76448
50.52 (a)(2)(i), (ii), and (b)(4) revised; (a)(2)(iii) added
44181
50.52 Heading revised
76448
50.53 Added
76448
50.75—50.79 (Subpart D) Added
76448
75.6 (f) added
46516
75.10 (c)(1), (3)(i), (8), (10) heading, (i), (11), and (d)(6) revised; (c)(15) through (18), and (d)(11) added
46516
75.10 Correction: (c)(11) amended
60355
75.12 (b)(1)(ii), (4), (c)(1), (d), and (e) revised; (b)(5) added
46520
75.13 (d) added
46521
75.14 (a)(2)(i), (ii)(C), and (c) revised; (a)(2)(iii), (iv), (v), and (3) added
46522
75.20 (a), (d) heading, (1), and (e) introductory text revised
46522
75.20 Correction: amended
60355
140.91 (a)(11) and (12) redesignated as (a)(12) and (13); new (a)(11) added
57570
140.94 (c)(1) and (4) through (13) revised
4900
140.94 (c) introductory text and (1) revised; (c)(15) added
67189
143.8 (b) revised
1749
160.30 Revised
29614
2021
17 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
40.1 (j)(1)(vii) and (2)(vii) revised
3463
41.41 (d) revised
19421
140.94 (c)(4) through (13) redesignated as (c)(5) through (14); new (c)(4) added
968
140.97 Removed
3463
143.8 (b) revised
7804
150 Authority citation revised
3463
150.1 Revised
3463
150.2 Revised
3465
150.3 Revised
3468
150.5 Revised
3470
150.6 Revised
3472
150.8 Added
3472
150.9 Added
3472
150 Appendices A through G added
3475
151 Removed
3483
190 Revised
19421
2022
17 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
50.4 (a) revised
52215
50.4 (a) revised; eff. 7-1-23
52216
50.26 Revised
52217
50.26 (a) revised; eff. 7-1-23
52218
143.8 (b) revised
2035
2023
17 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
45 Order
11790
140.94 (c)(10) revised
53698
143 Authority citation revised
1502
143.8 (b) revised
1502
2024
17 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
41.3 (d) revised
71812
43.3 (e)(1)(ii) revised
71812
43.6 (i)(6)(i)(B) and (j)(1)(ii) revised
78814
43.7 (a) and (b) amended
71812
45.14 (a)(1)(ii) revised
71812
45.15 (a) introductory text, (4), (b) introductory text, and (4) revised
71812
46.8 (c) introductory text revised; (d) amended
71813
48.2 (h) removed; (i) through (l) redesignated as new (h) through (k)
66208
48.4 (b) revised
66208
48.6 Removed
66209
48.8 (a)(4)(ii), (5)(i), and (iii) revised
66209
48.9 (b)(5) added
66209
49.31 Revised
71813
75.10 (b)(1)(ii)(B)(
2
) and (
3
) revised
78814
140.2 Heading, (a) through (c), and section amended
71813
140.11 (a), (b)(1), and (c) amended
71813
140.13 Amended
71813
140.24 (a)(4) and (6) amended
71813
140.72 (a) and (b) amended
71813
140.73 (a) and (b) amended
71813
140.75 Heading and section amended
71813
140.76 (a) and (b) amended
71813
140.91 Heading, (a), (13), and (b) amended
71813
140.92 (a) through (c) amended
71813
140.93 Heading and (a) through (c) amended
71813
140.94 Heading and (a) through (e) amended
71813
140.95 (a) through (c) amended
71813
140.96 (a) through (d) amended
71813
140.99 (d)(2)(i) revised; (a)(5) and (d)(2)(ii) through (iv) amended
71813
142.2 (d) amended
71816
143.8 (b) revised
4544
144.1 (b) and (e) amended
71816
144.5 (a) amended
71816
145.0 (a) revised
71817
145.2 Amended
71817
145.6 (a) revised
71818
145.6 (b)(1) revised
71819
145.7 (b), (c), (f), (g), (h)(1) through (3), (i)(2), (5), (6), (iii), (7), and (j) amended
71817
145.8 Amended
71817
145.9 (d)(2), (3), (7), (9), (e)(1), (f)(1) through (3), (g)(3), (5), (7), (8), (10), and (h) amended
71817
145 Appendix A amended
71817
146.2 (c) revised
71818
146.3 (a) amended
71818
146.4 (b) amended
71818
146.5 (e) and (f) amended
71818
146.6 (d) amended
71818
146.8 (a) and (d) through (h) amended
71818
146.9 (c), (d), and (e)(3) amended
71818
146.11 (b) amended
71818
146.12 Revised
51212
146.13 Removed
51215
146 Appendix A amended
71818
147.2 (g) revised
71819
147.4 (d)(1) amended
71819
147.5 (h) and (i) amended
71819
147.6 (c) amended
71819
147.8 (a) and (b)(1) amended
71819
147.9 (b) amended
71819
148.30 Amended
71819
149.170 (c) amended
71819
150.4 (e)(1) through (4) amended
71819
155.2 (i)(2) amended
71819
155.3 (a)(1) amended
71819
155.4 (a)(1) amended
71819
160.30 (a) amended
71820
162.21 (a)(1) amended
71820
165.3 (a)(2) amended
71820
165.7 (b)(1) amended
71820
165.12 (c) amended
71820
165.15 (a)(2) amended
71820
165 Appendix B amended
71820
170.11 (a)(5) amended
71820
170.12 Heading and section amended
71820
171.2 (c) amended
71821
171.3 Amended
71821
171.8 (a) and (b) amended
71821
171.28 Amended
71821
171.31 (a) amended
71821
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
17 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
143.8 (b) revised
8113
○
