In view of public policy for openness reflected in the Sunshine Act, each Board member is authorized to veto the use of notation voting for the consideration of any particular matter, and thus requires that the matter be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled Board meeting that is held at least ten days after the date of the veto.
(4)
Disclosure of result.
A record is to be maintained of Board transactions by use of the notation voting procedure. Public disclosure of this record is determined by the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
[53 FR 29647, Aug. 8, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 64267, Dec. 5, 1997; 70 FR 55517, Sept. 22, 2005; 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010]
§ 791.5
Scheduling of board meetings.
(a)
Meeting calls
—(1)
Regular meetings.
The Board will hold regular meetings each month unless there is no business or a quorum is not available. The Secretary of the Board will coordinate the dates for meetings.
(2)
Special meetings.
The Chairman shall call special meetings either on the Chairman's own initiative or within fourteen days of a request from two Board members that is accompanied by an NCUA B-1 form and a Board Action Memorandum that states the specific issue(s) or action(s) to be considered by the Board.
(b)
Notice of meetings
—(1)
Notifying the public.
The Sunshine Act and subpart C set forth the procedures for notifying the public of Board meetings.
(2)
Notifying board members
—(i)
Special meetings.
Except in cases of emergency, as determined by a majority of the Board, each Board member is entitled to receive notice of any special meeting at least twenty-four hours in advance of such meeting. The notice shall set forth the place, day, hour, and nature of business to be transacted at the meeting. In cases of emergency a record of the vote, including a statement explaining the decision that an emergency exists, will be maintained.
(ii)
Regular meetings.
Each Board member is entitled to receive notice of the agenda and/or notice of any changes in the subject matter of such meetings concurrent with the public release of such notices under the Sunshine Act. Each Board member shall be entitled to at least twenty-four hours advance notice of the consideration of a particular subject matter, except in cases of emergency as determined by a majority of the Board. In cases of emergency, a record of the vote, including a statement explaining the decision that an emergency exists, will be maintained.
[53 FR 29647, Aug. 8, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 64267, Dec. 5, 1997; 63 FR 5859, Feb. 5, 1998; 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010]
§ 791.6
Subject matter of a meeting.
(a)
Agenda.
The Chairman is responsible for the final order of each meeting agenda. Items shall be placed on the agenda by determination of the Chairman or, at the request of any Board Member, an item will be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting provided that the request is submitted at least ten days in advance of the next regularly scheduled meeting and is accompanied by an NCUA B-1 form and a Board Action Memorandum that states the specific issue(s) or action(s) to be considered by the Board.
(b)
Submission of recommended agenda items.
Recommended agenda items may be submitted to the Secretary of the Board by Board members, the Executive Staff (which includes all Office Directors and President of the Central Liquidity Facility), and Regional Directors.
[61 FR 55208, Oct. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 64267, Dec. 5, 1997; 63 FR 5859, Feb. 5, 1998]

# Subpart B—Promulgation of NCUA Rules and Regulations
§ 791.7
Scope.
The rules contained in this subpart B pertain to the promulgation of NCUA rules and regulations.
§ 791.8
Promulgation of NCUA rules and regulations.
(a) NCUA's procedures for developing regulations are governed by the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551
et seq.
), the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), and NCUA's policies for the promulgation of rules and regulations as set forth in its Interpretive Ruling and Policy Statement 87-2, as amended by Interpretive Ruling and Policy Statements 03-2 and 15-1.
(b)
Proposed rulemaking.
Notices of proposed rulemaking are published in the
Federal Register
except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section or as otherwise provided by law. A notice of proposed rulemaking may also be identified as a “request for comments” or as a “proposed rule.” The notice will include:
(1) A statement of the nature of the rulemaking proceedings;
(2) Reference to the authority under which the rule is proposed;
(3) Either the terms or substance of the proposed rule or a description of the subjects and issues involved; and
(4) A statement of the effect of the proposed rule on federally insured state-chartered credit unions.
(c)
Public participation.
After publication of notice of proposed rulemaking, interested persons will be afforded the opportunity to participate in the making of the rule through the submission of written data, views, or arguments, delivered within the time prescribed in the notice of proposed rulemaking, to the Secretary, NCUA Board, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. Interested persons may also petition the Board for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of any rule by mailing such petition to the Secretary of the Board at the address given in this section.
(d)
Exceptions to notice.
The following are not subject to the notice requirement contained in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Matters relating to agency management or personnel or to public property, loans, grants, benefits, or contracts;
(2) When persons subject to the proposed rule are named and either personally served or otherwise have actual notice thereof in accordance with law;
(3) Interpretive rules, general statements of policy, or rules of agency organization, procedure or practice, unless notice or hearing is required by statute; and
(4) If the Board, for good cause, finds (and incorporates the finding and a brief statement therefor in the rules issued) that notice and public procedure thereon are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest, unless notice or hearing is required by statute.
(e)
Effective dates.
No substantive rule issued by NCUA shall be effective less than 30 days after its publication in the
Federal Register,
except that this requirement may not apply to:
(1) Rules which grant or recognize an exemption or relieve a restriction;
(2) Interpretive rules and statements of policy; or
(3) Any substantive rule which the Board makes effective at an earlier date upon good cause found and published with such rule.
(f) NCUA has an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number for rulemakings containing an information collection within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501). A list of OMB control numbers is available to the public for review online at
http://www.RegInfo.gov.
[53 FR 29647, Aug. 8, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 36041, July 15, 1994; 68 FR 31952, May 29, 2003; 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010; 78 FR 4038, Jan. 18, 2013; 80 FR 57517, Sept. 24, 2015; 84 FR 1610, Feb. 5, 2019]

# Subpart C—Public Observation of NCUA Board Meetings Under the Sunshine Act
§ 791.9
Scope.
This subpart contains regulations implementing subsections (b) through (f) of the “Government in the Sunshine Act” (5 U.S.C. 552b). The primary purpose of these regulations is to provide the public with the fullest access authorized by law to the deliberations and decisions of the Board, while protecting the rights of individuals and preserving the ability of the agency to carry out its responsibilities.
§ 791.10
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart:
(a)
Agency
means the National Credit Union Administration;
(b)
Subdivision of the Board
means a group composed of two Board members authorized by the Board to act on behalf of the agency;
(c)
Meeting
means any deliberations by two or more members of the Board or any subdivision of the Board that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official agency business with the exception of: (1) Deliberations to determine whether a meeting or a portion thereof will be open or closed to public observation and whether information regarding closed meetings will be withheld from public disclosure; (2) deliberations to determine whether or when to schedule a meeting; and (3) infrequent dispositions of official agency business by sequential circulation of written recommendations to individual Board members (“notation voting procedure”), provided the votes of each Board member and the action taken are recorded for each matter and are publicly available, unless exempted from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552 (the Freedom of Information Act);
(d)
Public observation
means that a member or group of the public may listen to and observe any open meeting and may record in an unobtrusive manner any portion of that meeting by use of a camera or any other electronic device, but shall not participate in any meeting unless authorized by the Board;
(e)
Public announcement
or
publicly announce
means making reasonable efforts under the particular circumstances to fully inform the public, especially those individuals who have expressed interest in the subject matters to be discussed or the decisions of the agency;
(f)
Sunshine Act
means the open meeting provisions of the “Government in the Sunshine Act” (5 U.S.C. 552b.)
[53 FR 29647, Aug. 8, 1988, as amended at 78 FR 32546, May 31, 2013]
§ 791.11
Open meetings.
Except as provided in § 791.12(a), any portion of any meeting of the Board shall be open to public observation. The Board, and any subdivision of the Board, shall jointly conduct official agency business only in accordance with this subpart.
§ 791.12
Exemptions.
(a) Under the procedures specified in § 791.14, the Board may close a meeting or any portion of a meeting from public observation or may withhold information pertaining to such meetings provided the Board has properly determined that the public interest does not require otherwise and that the meeting (or any portion thereof) or the disclosure of meeting information is likely to:
(1) Disclose matters that are:
(i) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy; and
(ii) In fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive Order;
(2) Relate solely to internal personnel rules and practices;
(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than section 552 of title 5 of the United States Code, the Freedom of Information Act), provided that such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or
(ii) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would:
(i) Interfere with enforcement proceedings,
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication,
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy,
(iv) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by a Federal agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source,
(v) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or
(vi) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(8) Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of Federal agencies responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions;
(9) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would be likely to (i)(A) lead to significant speculation in currencies, securities, or commodities, or (B) significantly endanger the stability of any financial institution, or (ii) be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed action,
except that this paragraph (a)(9) shall not apply in any instance where the Board has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action, or where the Board is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final action on such proposal; or
(10) Specifically concern the issuance of a subpoena, participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct or disposition of a particular case of formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in section 554 of title 5 of the United States Code or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.
(b) Prior to closing a meeting whose discussions are likely to fall within the exemptions stated in paragraph (a) of this section, the Board will balance the public interest in observing the deliberations of an exemptible matter and the agency need for confidentiality of the exemptible matter. In weighing these interests, the Board is assisted by the General Counsel as provided in § 791.16, by expressions of the public interest set forth in requests for open meetings as provided by § 791.15(b), and by the brief staff analysis of public interest which will accompany each staff recommendation that an agenda item be considered in a closed meeting.
[53 FR 29647, Aug. 8, 1988, as amended at 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010]
§ 791.13
Public announcement of meetings.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Board shall, for each meeting, make a public announcement, at least one week in advance of the meeting, of the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, whether it will be open or closed to public observation, and the name and telephone number of the Secretary of the Board or the person designated by the Board to respond to requests for information about the meeting.
(b) Advance notice is required unless a majority of the members of the Board determine by a recorded vote that agency business requires that a meeting be called at an earlier date, in which case, the information to be announced in paragraph (a) of this section shall be publicly announced at the earliest practicable time.
(c) A change, including a postponement or a cancellation, in the time or place of a meeting after a published announcement may be made only if announced at the earliest practicable time.
(d) A change in or deletion of the subject matter of a meeting or any portion of a meeting or a redetermination to open or close a meeting or any portion of a meeting after a published announcement may be made only if:
(1) A majority of the Board determines by recorded vote that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible and
(2) Public announcement of the change and of the vote of each member on such change shall be made at the earliest practicable time.
(e) Each meeting announcement or amendment thereof shall be posted on the Public Notice Bulletin Board in the
reception area of the agency headquarters and may be made available by other means deemed desirable by the Board. Immediately following each public announcement required by this section, the stated information shall be submitted to the
Federal Register
for publication.
(f) No announcement shall contain information which is determined to be exempt from disclosure under § 791.12(a).
(g) The agency shall maintain a mailing list of names and addresses of all persons who wish to receive copies of agency announcements of meetings open to public observation and amendments to such announcements. Requests to be placed on the mailing list should be made by telephoning or by writing to the Secretary of the Board.
§ 791.14
Regular procedure for closing meeting discussions or limiting the disclosure of information.
(a) A decision to close any portion of a meeting and to withhold information about any portion of a meeting closed pursuant to § 791.12(a) will be taken only when a majority of the entire Board votes to take such action. In deciding whether to close a meeting or any portion of a meeting or to withhold information, the Board shall independently consider whether the public interest requires an open meeting. A separate vote of the Board will be taken and recorded for each portion of a meeting to be closed to public observation pursuant to § 791.12(a) or to withhold information from the public pursuant to § 791.12(a). A single vote may be taken and recorded with respect to a series of meetings, or any portions of meetings which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning the series of meetings, so long as each meeting in the series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. No proxies shall be allowed.
(b) Any person whose interests may be directly affected by any portion of a meeting for any of the reasons stated in § 791.12(a) (5), (6) or (7) may request that the Board close such portion of the meeting. After receiving notice of a person's desire for any specified portion of a meeting to be closed, the Board, upon a request by one member, will decide by recorded vote whether to close the relevant portion or portions of the meeting. This procedure applies to requests received either prior or subsequent to the announcement of a decision to hold an open meeting.
(c) Within one day after any vote is taken pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the Board shall make publicly available a written copy of the vote taken indicating the vote of each Board member. Except to the extent that such information is withheld and exempt from disclosure, for each meeting or any portion of a meeting closed to the public, the Board shall make publicly available within one day after the required vote, a written explanation of its action, together with a list of all persons expected to attend the closed meeting and their affiliation. The list of persons to attend need not include the names of individual staff, but shall state the offices of the agency expected to participate in the meeting discussions.
§ 791.15
Requests for open meeting.
(a) Following any announcement that the Board intends to close a meeting or any portion of any meeting, any person may make a written request to the Secretary of the Board that the meeting or a portion of the meeting be open. The request shall be circulated to the members of the Board, and the Board, upon the request of one member, shall reconsider its action under § 791.14 before the meeting or before discussion of the matter at the meeting. If the Board decides to open a portion of a meeting proposed to be closed, the Board shall publicly announce its decision in accordance with § 791.13(e). If no request is received from a Board member to reconsider the decision to close a meeting or portion thereof prior to the meeting discussion, the Chairman of the Board shall certify that the Board did not receive a request to reconsider its decision to close the discussion of the matter.
(b) The request to open a portion of a meeting shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Board in advance of the
meeting in question. The request shall set forth the requestor's interest in the matter to be discussed and the reasons why the requestor believes that the public interest requires that the meeting or portions thereof be open to public observation.
(c) The submission of a request to open a portion of a meeting shall not act to stay the effectiveness of Board action or to postpone or delay the meeting unless the Board decides otherwise.
(d) The Secretary of the Board shall advise the requestor of the Board's consideration of the request to open a portion of the meeting as soon as practicable.
§ 791.16
General counsel certification.
For each meeting or any portion of a meeting closed to public observation under § 791.14, the General Counsel shall publicly certify, whether in his or her opinion, the meeting or portion thereof may be closed to public observation and shall state each relevant exemption provision of law. A copy of the certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting and the persons present, shall be retained as a part of the permanent meeting records. As part of the certification, the General Counsel shall recommend to the Board whether the public interest requires that the meeting or portions thereof proposed to be closed to public observation be held in the open.
§ 791.17
Maintenance of meeting records.
(a) Except in those circumstances which are beyond the control of the agency, the Board shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or any portion thereof, closed to public observation. However, for meetings closed under § 791.12(a) (8), (9)(i) or (10), the Board shall maintain either a transcript, a recording or a set of minutes. The Board shall maintain a complete electronic recording for each open meeting or any portion thereof. All records shall clearly identify each speaker.
(b) A set of minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons for taking such action. Minutes shall also include a description of each of the views expressed by each person in attendance on any item and the record of any roll call vote, reflecting the vote of each member. All documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in the minutes.
(c) The agency shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or any portion of a meeting, closed to public observation, for at least two years after such meeting or for one year after the conclusion of any agency proceeding with respect to which the meeting or any portion was held, whichever occurs later. The agency shall maintain a complete electronic recording of each open meeting for at least three months after the meeting date. A complete set of minutes shall be maintained on a permanent basis for all meetings.
§ 791.18
Public availability of meeting records and other documents.
(a) The agency shall make promptly available to the public, in the Public Reference Room, the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes of any meeting, deleting any agenda item or any item of the testimony of a witness received at a closed meeting which the Board determined, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, was exempt from disclosure under § 791.12(a). The exemption or exemptions relied upon for any deleted information shall be reflected on any record or recording.
(b) Copies of any transcript, minutes or transcription of a recording, disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person requesting such information in the form specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Copies shall be furnished at the actual cost of duplication or transcription unless waived by the Secretary of the Board.
(c) Following each meeting or any portion of a meeting closed pursuant to § 791.12(a), the General Counsel or his
designee, after consultation with the Secretary of the Board, shall determine which, if any, portions of the meeting transcript, electronic recording or minutes not otherwise available under 5 U.S.C. 552a (the Privacy Act) contain information which should be withheld pursuant to § 791.12(a). If, at a later time, the Board determines that there is no further justification for withholding any meeting record or other item of information from the public which has previously been withheld, then such information shall be made available to the public.
(d) Except for information determined by the Board to be exempt from disclosure pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, meeting records shall be promptly available to the public in the Public Reference Room. Meeting records include but are not limited to: The transcript, electronic recording or minutes of each meeting, as required by § 791.17(a); the notice requirements of §§ 791.13 and 791.14(c); and the General Counsel Certification along with the presiding officer's statement, as required by § 791.16.
(e) These provisions do not affect the procedures set forth in part 792, subpart A, governing the inspection and copying of agency records, except that the exemptions set forth in § 791.12(a) of this subpart and in 5 U.S.C. 552b(c) shall govern in the case of a request made pursuant to part 792, subpart A, to copy or inspect the meeting records described in this section. Any documents considered or mentioned at Board meetings may be obtained subject to the procedures set forth in part 792, subpart A.
[53 FR 29647, Aug. 8, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 17493, Apr. 5, 1993; 64 FR 57365, Oct. 25, 1999]

# Subpart D—Use of Supervisory Guidance

# Source:
86 FR 7957, Feb. 3, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 791.19
Purpose.
The NCUA issues regulations and guidance as part of its supervisory function. This subpart reiterates the distinctions between regulations and guidance, as stated in the Interagency Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance (Interagency Statement) and provides that the Statement is binding on the NCUA.
§ 791.20
Implementation of the Interagency Statement.
The Statement describes the official policy of the NCUA with respect to the use of supervisory guidance in the supervisory process. The Statement is binding on the NCUA.
§ 791.21
Rule of construction.
Appendix A to this subpart does not alter the legal status of guidance that is authorized by statute, including but not limited to 12 U.S.C. 1781, 1786, and 1789, to create binding legal obligations.
Pt. 791, Subpt. D, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart D—Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance

# Statement Clarifying the Role of Supervisory Guidance
The National Credit Union Administration is responsible for promoting safety and soundness and effective consumer protection at Federal credit unions. The NCUA is issuing this statement to explain the role of supervisory guidance and to describe its approach to supervisory guidance.

# Difference Between Supervisory Guidance and Laws or Regulations
(1) The NCUA issue various types of supervisory guidance, including interagency statements, advisories, bulletins, policy statements, questions and answers, and frequently asked questions, to their respective supervised institutions. A law or regulation has the force and effect of law.
1
Unlike a law or regulation, supervisory guidance does not have the force and effect of law, and the NCUA do not take enforcement actions based on supervisory guidance. Rather, supervisory guidance outlines the NCUA's supervisory expectations or priorities and articulates the agency's general views regarding appropriate practices for a given subject area. Supervisory guidance often provides examples of
practices that the agency generally considers consistent with safety-and-soundness standards or other applicable laws and regulations, including those designed to protect consumers. Supervised institutions at times request supervisory guidance, and such guidance is important to provide insight to industry, as well as supervisory staff, in a transparent way that helps to ensure consistency in the supervisory approach.
1
Government agencies issue regulations that generally have the force and effect of law. Such regulations generally take effect only after the agency proposes the regulation to the public and responds to comments on the proposal in a final rulemaking document.

# Ongoing Agency Efforts To Clarify the Role of Supervisory Guidance
(2) The NCUA is clarifying the following policies and practices related to supervisory guidance:
(i) The NCUA intends to limit the use of numerical thresholds or other “bright-lines” in describing expectations in supervisory guidance. Where numerical thresholds are used, the NCUA intends to clarify that the thresholds are exemplary only and not suggestive of requirements. The agency will continue to use numerical thresholds to tailor, and otherwise make clear, the applicability of supervisory guidance or programs to supervised institutions, and as required by statute.
(ii) Examiners will not criticize (through the issuance of matters requiring attention, matters requiring immediate attention, matters requiring board attention, documents of resolution, and supervisory recommendations) a supervised financial institution for, and the NCUA will not issue an enforcement action on the basis of, a “violation” of or “non-compliance” with supervisory guidance. In some situations, examiners may reference (including in writing) supervisory guidance to provide examples of safe and sound conduct, appropriate consumer protection and risk management practices, and other actions for addressing compliance with laws or regulations.
(iii) Supervisory criticisms should continue to be specific as to practices, operations, financial conditions, or other matters that could have a negative effect on the safety and soundness of the financial institution, could cause consumer harm, or could cause violations of laws, regulations, final agency orders, or other legally enforceable conditions.
(iv) The NCUA also has at times sought, and may continue to seek, public comment on supervisory guidance. Seeking public comment on supervisory guidance does not mean that the guidance is intended to be a regulation or have the force and effect of law. The comment process helps the agency to improve its understanding of an issue, to gather information on institutions' risk management practices, or to seek ways to achieve a supervisory objective most effectively and with the least burden on institutions.
(v) The NCUA will aim to reduce the issuance of multiple supervisory guidance documents on the same topic and will generally limit such multiple issuances going forward.
(3) The NCUA will continue efforts to make the role of supervisory guidance clear in their communications to examiners and to supervised financial institutions and encourage supervised institutions with questions about this statement or any applicable supervisory guidance to discuss the questions with their appropriate agency contact.
Pt. 792

# PART 792—REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND PRIVACY ACT, AND BY SUBPOENA; SECURITY PROCEDURES FOR CLASSIFIED INFORMATION

# Subpart A—The Freedom of Information Act

# General Purpose
Sec.
792.01
What is the purpose of this subpart?

# Records Publicly Available
792.02
What records does NCUA make available to the public for inspection and copying?
792.03
How will I know which records to request?
792.04
How can I obtain these records?
792.05
What is the significance of records made available and indexed?

# Records Available Upon Request
792.06
Can I obtain other records?
792.07
Where do I send my request?
792.08
What must I include in my request?
792.09
What if my request does not meet the requirements of this subpart?
792.10
What will NCUA do with my request?
792.11
What kind of records are exempt from public disclosure?
792.12
How will I know what records NCUA has determined to be exempt?
792.13
Can I get the records in different forms or formats?
792.14
Who is responsible for responding to my request?
792.15
How long will it take to process my request?
792.16
What unusual circumstances can delay NCUA's response?
792.17
What can I do if the time limit passes and I still have not received a response?

# Expedited Processing
792.18
What if my request is urgent and I cannot wait for the records?

# Fees
792.19
How does NCUA calculate the fees for processing my request?
792.20
What are the charges for each fee category?
792.21
Will NCUA provide a fee estimate?
792.22
What will NCUA charge for other services?
792.23
Can I avoid charges by sending multiple, small requests?
792.24
Can NCUA charge me interest if I fail to pay my bill?
792.25
Will NCUA charge me if the records are not found or are determined to be exempt?
792.26
Will I be asked to pay fees in advance?

# Fee Waiver or Reduction
792.27
Can fees be reduced or waived?

# Appeals
792.28
What if I am not satisfied with the response I receive?

# Submitter Notice
792.29
If I send NCUA confidential commercial information, can it be disclosed under FOIA?

# Release of Exempt Records
792.30
Is there a prohibition against disclosure of exempt records?
792.31
Can exempt records be disclosed to credit unions, financial institutions and state or federal agencies?
792.32
Can exempt records be disclosed to investigatory agencies?
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Production of Nonpublic Records and Testimony of NCUA Employees in Legal Proceedings
792.40
What does this subpart prohibit?
792.41
When does this subpart apply?
792.42
How do I request nonpublic records or testimony?
792.43
What must my written request contain?
792.44
When should I make a request?
792.45
Where do I send my request?
792.46
What will the NCUA do with my request?
792.47
If my request is granted, what fees apply?
792.48
If my request is granted, what restrictions apply?
792.49
Definitions.

# Subpart D—Security Procedures for Classified Information
792.50
Program.
792.51
Procedures.

# Subpart E—The Privacy Act
792.52
Scope.
792.53
Definitions.
792.54
Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records in a system of records.
792.55
Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests and identification of records requested.
792.56
Notice of existence of records, access decisions and disclosure of requested information; time limits.
792.57
Special procedures: Information furnished by other agencies; medical records.
792.58
Requests for correction or amendment to a record; administrative review of requests.
792.59
Appeal of initial determination.
792.60
Disclosure of record to person other than the individual to whom it pertains.
792.61
Accounting for disclosures.
792.62
Requests for accounting for disclosures.
792.63
Collection of information from individuals; information forms.
792.64
Contracting for the operation of a system of records.
792.65
Fees.
792.66
Exemptions.
792.67
Security of systems of records.
792.68
Use and collection of Social Security numbers.
792.69
Training and employee standards of conduct with regard to privacy.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a, 552b; 12 U.S.C. 1752a(d), 1766, 1789, 1795f; E.O. 12600, 52 FR 23781, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p.235; E.O. 13526, 75 FR 707, 2009 Comp. p.298.

# Source:
54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—The Freedom of Information Act

# Source:
63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# General Purpose
§ 792.01
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart describes the procedures you must follow to obtain records from NCUA under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), (5 U.S.C. 552).

# Records Publicly Available
§ 792.02
What records does NCUA make available to the public for inspection and copying?
Except for records that are exempt from public disclosure under FOIA as amended (5 U.S.C. 552) or are promptly published and copies are available for purchase, NCUA routinely makes the following five types of records available for you to inspect and copy and in an electronic format:
(a) Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, and orders made in the adjudication of cases;
(b) Statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the agency but not published in the
Federal Register
;
(c) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;
(d) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format, which have been released after March 31, 1997, in response to a FOIA request and which, because of the nature of their subject matter, NCUA determines have been or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests; or records that have been requested three (3) or more times; and
(e) Indices of the documents referred to in this paragraph.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 93794, Dec. 22, 2016; 82 FR 29712, June 30, 2017]
§ 792.03
How will I know which records to request?
NCUA maintains current indices providing identifying information for the public for any matter referred to in § 792.02, issued, adopted, or promulgated after July 4, 1967. The listing of material in an index is for the convenience of possible users and does not constitute a determination that all of the items listed will be disclosed. NCUA has determined that publication of the indices is unnecessary and impractical. You may obtain copies of indices by making a request to the NCUA, Office of General Counsel, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-2387, Attn: FOIA Officer or as indicated on the NCUA Web site at
www.ncua.gov.
The indices are available for public inspection and copying, provided at their duplication cost, and in an electronic format. The indices are:
(a) NCUA Publications List: Manuals relating to general and technical information, booklets published by NCUA, and the Credit Union Directory. The NCUA Publications list is available on the NCUA web site.
(b) Directives Control Index: A list of statements of policy, NCUA Instructions, Bulletins, Letters to Credit Unions, and certain internal manuals.
(c) Popular FOIA Index: Records released in response to a FOIA request, that NCUA determines are likely to be the subject of subsequent requests because of the nature of their subject matter, or records that have been requested three (3) or more times. The Popular FOIA Index is available on the NCUA Web site.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 56937, Oct. 1, 2008; 81 FR 93794, Dec. 22, 2016; 82 FR 29712, June 30, 2017]
§ 792.04
How can I obtain these records?
You may obtain these types of records or information in the following ways:
(a) You may obtain copies of the records referenced in § 792.02 by obtaining the index referred to in § 792.03 and following the ordering instructions it contains, or by making a written request to NCUA, Office of General Counsel, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428,
Attn:
FOIA Officer or as indicated on the NCUA Web site.
(b) If they were created by NCUA on or after November 1, 1996, records referenced in § 792.02 are available on the NCUA web site, found at
http://www.ncua.gov.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 56937, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.05
What is the significance of records made available and indexed?
The records referred to in § 792.02 may be relied on, used, or cited as precedent by NCUA against a party, provided:
(a) The materials have been indexed and either made available or published; or
(b) The party has actual and timely notice of the materials' contents.

# Records Available Upon Request
§ 792.06
Can I obtain other records?
Except with respect to records routinely made available under § 792.02 or published in the
Federal Register,
or to the extent that records are exempt under the FOIA, if you make a request for records in accordance with this subpart, NCUA will make such records available to you, including records maintained in electronic format, as long as you agree to pay the actual, direct costs.
§ 792.07
Where do I send my request?
(a) You must send your written request to one of NCUA's Information Centers. The Central Office and Office of Inspector General are designated as Information Centers for the NCUA. The Freedom of Information Officer of the Office of General Counsel is responsible for the operation of the Information Center maintained at the Central Office. The Inspector General is responsible for the operation of the Inspector General Information Center.
(b) If you are seeking any NCUA record, other than those maintained by the Office of Inspector General, you should send your request to NCUA, Office of the General Counsel, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428,
Attn:
FOIA Officer or as indicated on the NCUA Web site at
http://www.ncua.gov.
(c) If you are seeking a record you think may be maintained by the NCUA Office of Inspector General, then you should send your request to the Inspector General, NCUA, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428.
[68 FR 61737, Oct. 30, 2003; 73 FR 56937, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.08
What must I include in my request?
Until an Information Center receives your FOIA request, it is not obligated to search for responsive records, meet time deadlines, or release any records. A request will not be considered received if it does not include all of the items in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a) Your request must be in writing and include the words “FOIA REQUEST” on both the envelope and request letter. The request letter must also include your name, address and a telephone number where you can be reached during normal business hours. If you would like us to respond to your FOIA request by electronic mail (e-mail), you should include your e-mail address.
(b) A reasonable description of the records you seek. A reasonable description is one that enables an NCUA employee, who is familiar with the subject area of the request, to locate the record with a reasonable amount of effort.
(c) A statement agreeing to pay all applicable fees or to pay fees up to a certain maximum amount, or requesting a fee reduction or waiver in accordance with § 792.27. If the actual fees are expected to exceed the maximum amount you indicate in your request, NCUA will contact you to see if you are willing to pay the estimated fees. If you do not want to pay the estimated fees, your request will be closed and no bill will be sent.
(d) If other than paper copy, you must identify the form and format of responsive information you are requesting.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 61737, Oct. 30, 2003; 73 FR 56937, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.09
What if my request does not meet the requirements of this subpart?
NCUA need not accept or process your request if it does not comply with the requirements of this subpart. NCUA may return such a request to you with an explanation of the deficiency. You may then submit a corrected request, which will be treated as a new request.
§ 792.10
What will NCUA do with my request?
(a) On receipt of any request, the Information Center assigns it to the appropriate processing schedule, pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. The date of receipt for any request, including one that is addressed incorrectly or is forwarded to NCUA by another agency, is the earlier of the date
the appropriate Information Center actually receives the request or 10 working days after either of NCUA's Information Centers receives the request.
(b) NCUA has a multi-track processing system. Requests for records that are readily identifiable by the Information Center and have already been cleared for public release may qualify for fast track processing. Requests that meet the requirements of § 792.18 will be processed on the expedited track. All other requests will be handled under normal processing procedures in the order they were received.
(c) The Information Center will make the determination whether a request qualifies for fast track processing or expedited track processing. You may contact the Information Center to learn to which track your request has been assigned. If your request has not qualified for fast track processing, you will have an opportunity to limit the scope of material requested to qualify for fast track processing. Limitations of requests must be in writing. If your request for expedited processing is not granted, you will be advised of your right to appeal.
(d) The Information Center will normally process requests in the order they are received in the separate processing tracks. However, in NCUA's discretion, a particular request may be processed out of turn.
(e) Upon a determination by the appropriate Information Center to comply with your initial request for records, the records will be made promptly available to you. NCUA will also advise you of the right to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison. If we notify you of a denial of your request, we will include the reason for the denial. NCUA will also advise you of the right to utilize dispute resolution services offered by the FOIA Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services.
(f) The Information Center will search for records responsive to your request and will generally include all records in existence at the time the search begins. If we use a different search cut-off date, we will inform you of that date.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 61737, Oct. 30, 2003; 73 FR 30478, May 28, 2008; 73 FR 56937, Oct. 1, 2008; 81 FR 93794, Dec. 22, 2016; 82 FR 29712, June 30, 2017]
§ 792.11
What kind of records are exempt from public disclosure?
(a) All records of NCUA or any officer, employee, or agent thereof, are confidential, privileged and exempt from disclosure, except as otherwise provided in this subpart, if they are:
(1) Records specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and are in fact properly classified pursuant to an Executive Order.
(2) Records related solely to NCUA internal personnel rules and practices. This exemption applies to internal rules or instructions which must be kept confidential in order to assure effective performance of the functions and activities for which NCUA is responsible and which do not materially affect members of the public. This exemption also applies to manuals and instructions to the extent that release of the information would permit circumvention of laws or regulations.
(3) Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute, where the statute either makes nondisclosure mandatory or establishes particular criteria for withholding information.
(4) Records which contain trade secrets and commercial or financial information which relate to the business, personal or financial affairs of any person or organization, are furnished to NCUA, and are confidential or privileged. This exemption includes, but is not limited to, various types of confidential sales and cost statistics, trade secrets, and names of key customers and personnel. Assurances of confidentiality given by staff are not binding on NCUA.
(5) Inter-agency or intra-agency memoranda or letters which would not be available by law to a private party in litigation with NCUA. This exemption preserves the existing freedom of NCUA officials and employees to engage in full and frank written or taped communications with each other and
with officials and employees of other agencies. It includes, but is not limited to, inter-agency and intra-agency reports, memoranda, letters, correspondence, work papers, and minutes of meetings, as well as staff papers prepared for use within NCUA or in concert with other governmental agencies. In applying this exemption, the NCUA will not withhold records based on the deliberative process privilege if the records were created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested.
(6) Personnel, medical, and similar files (including financial files) pertaining to another person, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy without the subject person's written consent or proof of death. Written consent consists of a written statement by the subject person, authorizing the release of the information to you, and including either the subject person's notarized signature or a declaration made under penalty of perjury that the statement is true and correct. Proof of death consists of evidence that the subject of your request is deceased—such as a death certificate, a newspaper obituary, or some comparable proof of death. Files exempt from disclosure include, but are not limited to:
(i) The personnel records of the NCUA;
(ii) The personnel records voluntarily submitted by private parties in response to NCUA's requests for proposals; and
(iii) Files containing reports, records or other material pertaining to individual cases in which disciplinary or other administrative action has been or may be taken.
(7) Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or information:
(i) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(ii) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(iii) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a state, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution which furnished information on a confidential basis, and, in the case of a record or information compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation on or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, information furnished by the confidential source;
(v) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigation or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or
(vi) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual. This includes, but is not limited to, information relating to enforcement proceedings upon which NCUA has acted or will act in the future.
(8) Contained in or related to examination, operating or condition reports prepared by, or on behalf of, or for the use of NCUA or any agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions. This includes all information, whether in formal or informal report form, the disclosure of which would harm the financial security of credit unions or would interfere with the relationship between NCUA and credit unions.
(b) We will provide any reasonably segregable portion of a requested record after deleting those portions that are exempt from disclosure under this section.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 56937, Oct. 1, 2008; 81 FR 93794, Dec. 22, 2016; 82 FR 29712, June 30, 2017]
§ 792.12
How will I know what records NCUA has determined to be exempt?
As long as it is technically feasible and does not threaten an interest protected by the FOIA, we will:
(a) Mark the place where we redacted information from documents released to you and note the exemption that protects the information from public disclosure; or
(b) Make reasonable efforts to include with our response to you an estimate of the volume of information withheld.
§ 792.13
Can I get the records in different forms or formats?
NCUA will provide a copy of the record in any form or format requested, such as computer disk, if the record is readily reproducible by us in that form or format, but we will not provide more than one copy of any record.
§ 792.14
Who is responsible for responding to my request?
The Freedom of Information Officer or designee is responsible for making the initial determination whether to grant or deny a request for information submitted to the Central Office Information Center. The Inspector General or designee is responsible for making the initial determination whether to grant or deny a request for information submitted to the Inspector General Information Center. This official may refer a request to an NCUA employee who is familiar with the subject area of the request. Other NCUA staff members may aid the official by providing information, advice, recommending a decision, or implementing a decision, but no NCUA employee other than an authorized official may make the initial determination. Referral of a request by the official to an employee will not affect the time limitation imposed in § 792.15 unless the request involves an unusual circumstance as provided in § 792.16.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 61737, Oct. 30, 2003]
§ 792.15
How long will it take to process my request?
NCUA will respond to requests within 20 working days, except:
(a)(1) Where the running of such time is suspended while:
(i) The Information Center awaits additional information from the requester. A suspension of time for this purpose may occur only once during the processing period; and
(ii) The Information Center clarifies with the requester issues regarding the payment of fees pursuant to § 792.26.
(2) The Information Center's receipt of the requester's response to the request for additional information or clarification ends the tolling period;
(b) In unusual circumstances, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B) and § 792.16, the time limit may be extended for:
(1) An additional 10 working days as provided by written notice to you, stating the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination will be sent; or
(2) Such alternative time period as mutually agreed by you and the Information Office, when NCUA notifies you that the request cannot be processed in the specified time limit. In such cases, NCUA will make available its FOIA Public Liaison and notify you of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 56938, Oct. 1, 2008; 81 FR 93794, Dec. 22, 2016; 82 FR 29712, June 30, 2017]
§ 792.16
What unusual circumstances can delay NCUA's response?
(a) In unusual circumstances, the time limits for responding to your request (or your appeal) may be extended by NCUA. If NCUA extends the time, it will provide you with written notice setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched. Our notice will not specify a date that would result in an extension for more than 10 working days, except as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. The unusual circumstances that can delay NCUA's response to your request are:
(1) The need to search for, and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;
(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(3) The need for consultation, which will be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of NCUA having a substantial interest in the subject matter.
(b) If you, or you and a group of others acting in concert, submit multiple requests that NCUA believes actually constitute a single request, which would otherwise satisfy the unusual circumstances criteria specified in this section, and the requests involve related matters, then NCUA may aggregate those requests and the provisions of § 792.15(b) will apply.
(c) If NCUA sends you an extension notice, it will also advise you that you can either limit the scope of your request so that it can be processed within the statutory time limit or agree to an alternative time frame for processing your request. In such cases, NCUA will make available its FOIA Public Liaison and notify you of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 30478, May 28, 2008; 81 FR 93794, Dec. 22, 2016; 82 FR 29713, June 30, 2017]
§ 792.17
What can I do if the time limit passes and I still have not received a response?
(a) If NCUA does not comply with the time limits under § 792.15, or as extended under § 792.16, you do not have to pay search fees; requesters qualifying for free search fees will not have to pay duplication fees. However, if NCUA has extended the time limits under § 792.16 and must review more than 5,000 pages to respond to the request, NCUA may charge you search fees (or for requesters qualifying for free search fees, duplication fees), if NCUA has discussed with you via written mail, electronic mail, or telephone (or made not less than 3 good-faith attempts to do so) how you could effectively limit the scope of the request.
(b) You can seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison or dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services. You also can file suit against NCUA because you will be deemed to have exhausted your administrative remedies if NCUA fails to comply with the time limit provisions of this subpart. If NCUA can show that exceptional circumstances exist and that it is exercising due diligence in responding to your request, the court may retain jurisdiction and allow NCUA to complete its review of the records. You may have to pay search or duplication fees if a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist and has extended the time limits for NCUA's response by a court order. In determining whether exceptional circumstances exist, the court may consider your refusal to modify the scope of your request or arrange an alternative time frame for processing after being given the opportunity to do so by NCUA, when it notifies you of the existence of unusual circumstances as set forth in § 792.16.
[82 FR 29713, June 30, 2017]

# Expedited Processing
§ 792.18
What if my request is urgent and I cannot wait for the records?
You may request expedited processing of your request if you can show a compelling need for the records. In cases where your request for expedited processing is granted or if NCUA has determined to expedite the response, it will be processed as soon as practicable.
(a) To demonstrate a compelling need for expedited processing, you must provide a certified statement. The statement, certified by you to be true and correct to the best of your knowledge and belief, must demonstrate that:
(1) The failure to obtain the records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or
(2) The requester is a representative of the news media, as defined in § 792.20, and there is urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged NCUA activity.
(b) In response to a request for expedited processing, the Information Center will notify you of the determination within ten working days of receipt of the request. If the Information Center denies your request for expedited
processing, you may file an appeal pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 792.28, and NCUA will expeditiously respond to the appeal.
(c) The Information Center will normally process requests in the order they are received in the separate processing tracks. However, in NCUA's discretion, a particular request may be processed out of turn.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 56938, Oct. 1, 2008]

# Fees
§ 792.19
How does NCUA calculate the fees for processing my request?
We will charge you our allowable direct costs, unless they are less than the cost of billing you. Direct costs means those expenditures that NCUA actually incurs in searching for, duplicating and reviewing documents to respond to a FOIA request. Search means all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents. Searches may be done manually or by computer. Search does not include modification of an existing program or system that would significantly interfere with the operation of an automated information system. Review means examining documents to determine whether any portion should be withheld and preparing documents for disclosure. Fees are subject to change as costs increase. The current rate schedule is available on our web site at
http://www.ncua.gov.
We may contract with the private sector to locate, reproduce or disseminate records. NCUA will not contract out responsibilities that FOIA requires it to discharge, such as determining the applicability of an exemption, or determining whether to waive or reduce fees. The following labor and duplication rate calculations apply:
(a) NCUA will charge fees at the following rates for manual searches for and review of records:
(1) If search/review is done by clerical staff, the hourly rate for CU-5, plus 16% of that rate to cover benefits;
(2) If search/review is done by professional staff, the hourly rate for CU-13, plus 16% of that rate to cover benefits.
(b) NCUA will charge fees at the hourly rate for CU-13, plus 16% of that rate to cover benefits, plus the hourly cost of operating the computer for computer searches for records.
(c) NCUA will charge the following duplication fees:
(1) The per-page fee for paper copy reproduction of a document is $.10;
(2) The fee for documents generated by computer is the hourly fee for the computer operator, plus the cost of materials (computer paper, tapes, labels, etc.);
(3) If any other method of duplication is used, NCUA will charge the actual direct cost of duplication.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 56938, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.20
What are the charges for each fee category?
The fee category definitions are:
(a)
Commercial use request
means a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made.
(b)
Educational institution
means a preschool, an elementary or secondary school, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education operating a program or programs of scholarly research.
(c)
Noncommercial scientific institution
means an institution that is not operated for a “commercial” purpose as that term is used in paragraph (a) of this section and is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
(d)
Representative of the news media
means any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. Included within the meaning of public is the credit union community. The term news means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to
the public. You may consult the following chart to find the fees applicable to your request:
If your fee category is
You'll receive
And you'll be charged
Commercial use
0 hours free search
search time
0 hours free review
review time
0 free pages
duplication
Educational institution, noncommercial scientific institution, newsmedia
Unlimited free search hours
Unlimited free review hours
100 free pages
duplication
All others
2 hours free search
search time
Unlimited free review hours
100 free pages
duplication
§ 792.21
Will NCUA provide a fee estimate?
NCUA will notify you of the estimated amount if fees are likely to exceed $25, unless you have indicated in advance a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. You will then have the opportunity to confer with NCUA personnel to reformulate the request to meet your needs at a lower cost.
§ 792.22
What will NCUA charge for other services?
Complying with requests for special services is entirely at the discretion of NCUA. NCUA will recover the full costs of providing such services to the extent it elects to provide them.
§ 792.23
Can I avoid charges by sending multiple, small requests?
You may not file multiple requests, each seeking portions of a document or similar documents, solely to avoid payment of fees. If this is done, NCUA may aggregate any such requests and charge you accordingly.
§ 792.24
Can NCUA charge me interest if I fail to pay my bill?
NCUA can assess interest charges on an unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of the bill. If you fail to pay your bill within 30 days, interest will be at the rate prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717, and will accrue from the date of the billing.
§ 792.25
Will NCUA charge me if the records are not found or are determined to be exempt?
NCUA may assess fees for time spent searching and reviewing, even if it fails to locate the records or if records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure.
§ 792.26
Will I be asked to pay fees in advance?
NCUA will require you to give an assurance of payment or an advance payment only when:
(a) NCUA estimates or determines that allowable charges that you may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250. NCUA will notify you of the likely cost and obtain satisfactory assurance of full payment where you have a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees, or require an advance payment of an amount up to the full estimated charges in the case where you have no history of payment; or
(b) You have previously failed to pay a fee charged in a timely fashion. NCUA may require you to pay the full amount owed, plus any applicable interest, or demonstrate that you have, in fact, paid the fee, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before we begin to process a new request or a pending request from you.
(c) If you are required to make an advance payment of fees, then the administrative time limits prescribed in § 792.16 will begin only after NCUA has received the fee payments described.

# Fee Waiver or Reduction
§ 792.27
Can fees be reduced or waived?
You may request that NCUA waive or reduce fees if disclosure of the information you request is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding
of the operations or activities of the government, and is not primarily in your commercial interest.
(a) NCUA will make a determination of whether the public interest requirement above is met based on the following factors:
(1) Whether the subject of the requested records concerns identifiable operations or activities of the government, with a connection that is direct and clear;
(2) Whether the disclosable portions of the requested records are meaningfully informative about government operations and activities in order to be likely to contribute to an understanding of government operations or activities. Information already in the public domain, either in a duplicate or substantially identical form where nothing new would be added to the public's understanding, would not be meaningfully informative;
(3) Whether disclosure of the requested information will contribute to public understanding, meaning a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area and ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public will be considered. Representatives of the news media are presumed to satisfy this consideration; and
(4) Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of government operations or activities. The level of public understanding before disclosure must be enhanced by the disclosure to a significant extent.
(b) If the public interest requirement is met, NCUA will make a determination on the commercial interest requirement based upon the following factors:
(1) Whether you have a commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure; and if so
(2) Whether the magnitude of your commercial interest is sufficiently large in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in your commercial interest.
(c) If the required public interest exists and your commercial interest is not primary in comparison, NCUA will waive or reduce fees.
(d) If you are not satisfied with our determination on your fee waiver or reduction request, you may submit an appeal to the General Counsel in accordance with § 792.28.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 56938, Oct. 1, 2008]

# Appeals
§ 792.28
What if I am not satisfied with the response I receive?
If you are not satisfied with NCUA's response to your request, you can seek dispute resolution services from the FOIA Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services, and you can file an administrative appeal. Your appeal must be in writing and must be filed within 90 days from receipt of the initial determination (in cases of denials of the entire request or denials of a fee waiver or reduction), or from receipt of any records being made available pursuant to the initial determination (in cases of partial denials). In the response to your initial request, the Freedom of Information Act Officer or the Inspector General (or designee), will notify you that you may appeal any adverse determination to the Office of General Counsel. The General Counsel, or designee, as set forth in this paragraph, will:
(a) Make a determination with respect to any appeal within 20 working days after the receipt of such appeal. If, on appeal, the denial of the request for records is, in whole or in part, upheld, the Office of General Counsel will notify you of the provisions for judicial review of that determination under FOIA. Where you do not address your appeal to the General Counsel, the time limitations stated above will be computed from the date of receipt of the appeal by the General Counsel.
(b) The General Counsel is the official responsible for determining all appeals from initial determinations. In case of this person's absence, the appropriate officer acting in the General Counsel's stead will make the appellate determination, unless such officer was responsible for the initial determination, in which case the Vice-Chairman
of the NCUA Board will make the appellate determination.
(c) All appeals should be addressed to the General Counsel in the Central Office and should be clearly identified as such on the envelope and in the letter of appeal by using the indicator “FOIA-APPEAL.” Failure to address an appeal properly may delay commencement of the time limitation stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, to take account of the time reasonably required to forward the appeal to the Office of General Counsel.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 61737, Oct. 30, 2003; 73 FR 30478, May 28, 2008; 73 FR 56938, Oct. 1, 2008; 81 FR 93795, Dec. 22, 2016; 82 FR 29713, June 30, 2017]

# Submitter Notice
§ 792.29
If I send NCUA confidential commercial information, can it be disclosed under FOIA?
(a) If you submit confidential commercial information to NCUA, it may be disclosed in response to a FOIA request in accordance with this section.
(b) For purposes of this section:
(1)
Confidential commercial information
means commercial or financial information provided to NCUA by a submitter that arguably is protected from disclosure under § 792.11(a)(4) because disclosure could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm.
(2)
Submitter
means any person or entity who provides business information, directly or indirectly, to NCUA.
(c) Submitters of business information must use good faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or at a reasonable time thereafter, those portions of their submissions deemed to be protected from disclosure under § 792.11(a)(4). Such a designation shall expire ten years after the date of submission.
(d) We will provide a submitter with written notice of a FOIA request or administrative appeal encompassing designated business information when:
(1) The information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as confidential commercial information deemed protected from disclosure under § 792.11(a)(4); or
(2) NCUA has reason to believe that the information may be protected from disclosure under § 792.11(a)(4).
(e) A copy of the notice to the submitter will also be provided to the FOIA requester.
(f) Through the notice described in paragraph (d) of this section, NCUA will afford the submitter a reasonable period of time within which to provide a detailed written statement of any objection to disclosure. The statement must describe why the information is confidential commercial information and why it should not be disclosed.
(g) Whenever we decide that we must disclose confidential commercial information over the objection of the submitter, we will send both the submitter and the FOIA requester, within a reasonable number of days prior to the specified disclosure date, a written notice which will include:
(1) A statement of the reasons for which the submitter's disclosure objection was not sustained; and
(2) A description of the information to be disclosed; and
(3) A specified disclosure date.
(h) If a requester brings suit to compel disclosure of confidential commercial information, we will promptly notify the submitter.
(i) The notice requirements of paragraph (d) of this section do not apply if:
(1) We determine that the information should not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by law; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section appears obviously frivolous; except that in such case, NCUA will provide the submitter with written notice of any final administrative decision to disclose the information within a reasonable number of days prior to the specified disclosure date.

# Release of Exempt Information
§ 792.30
Is there a prohibition against disclosure of exempt records?
Except those authorized officials listed in § 792.14, or as provided in §§ 792.31-
792.32, and subpart C of this part, no officer, employee, or agent of NCUA or of any federally insured credit union shall disclose or permit the disclosure of any exempt records of NCUA to any person other than those NCUA or credit union officers, employees, or agents properly entitled to such information for the performance of their official duties.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 84 FR 1610, Feb. 5, 2019]
§ 792.31
Can exempt records be disclosed to credit unions, financial institutions and state or federal agencies?
The NCUA Board, in its sole discretion, or any person designated by it in writing, may make available to certain governmental agencies and insured financial institutions copies of reports of examination and other documents, papers or information for their use, when necessary, in the performance of their official duties or functions. All reports, documents and papers made available pursuant to this paragraph shall remain the property of NCUA. No person, agency or employee shall disclose the reports or exempt records without NCUA's express written authorization.
§ 792.32
Can exempt records be disclosed to investigatory agencies?
The NCUA Board, or any person designated by it in writing, in its discretion and in appropriate circumstances, may disclose to proper federal or state authorities copies of exempt records pertaining to irregularities discovered in credit unions which may constitute either unsafe or unsound practices or violations of federal or state, civil or criminal law.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Production of Nonpublic Records and Testimony of NCUA Employees in Legal Proceedings

# Source:
62 FR 56054, Oct. 29, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 792.40
What does this subpart prohibit?
This subpart prohibits the release of nonpublic records or the appearance of an NCUA employee to testify in legal proceedings except as provided in this subpart. Any person possessing nonpublic records may release them or permit their disclosure only as provided in this subpart.
(a)
Duty of NCUA employees.
(1) If an NCUA employee is served with a subpoena requiring him or her to appear as a witness or produce records, the employee must promptly notify the Office of General Counsel. The General Counsel has the authority to instruct NCUA employees to refuse appearing as a witness or to withhold nonpublic records. The General Counsel may let an NCUA employee provide testimony, including expert or opinion testimony, if the General Counsel determines that the need for the testimony clearly outweighs contrary considerations.
(2) If a court or other appropriate authority orders or demands expert or opinion testimony or testimony beyond authorized subjects contrary to the General Counsel's instructions, an NCUA employee must immediately notify the General Counsel of the order and respectfully decline to comply. An NCUA employee must decline to answer questions on the grounds that this subpart forbids such disclosure and should produce a copy of this subpart, request an opportunity to consult with the Office of General Counsel, and explain that providing such testimony without approval may expose him or her to disciplinary or other adverse action.
(b)
Duty of persons who are not NCUA employees.
(1) If you are not an NCUA employee but have custody of nonpublic records and are served with a subpoena requiring you to appear as a witness or produce records, you must promptly notify the NCUA about the subpoena. Also, you must notify the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued of the contents of this subpart. Notice to the NCUA is made by sending a copy of the subpoena to the General Counsel of the NCUA, Office of
General Counsel, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428. After receiving notice, the NCUA may advise the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued that this subpart applies and, in addition, may intervene, attempt to have the subpoena quashed or withdrawn, or register appropriate objections.
(2) After notifying the Office of General Counsel, you should respond to a subpoena by appearing at the time and place stated in the subpoena. Unless authorized by the General Counsel, you should decline to produce any records or give any testimony, basing your refusal on this subpart. If the issuing court or authority orders the disclosure of records or orders you to testify, you should continue to decline to produce records or testify and should advise the Office of General Counsel.
(c)
Penalties.
Anyone who discloses nonpublic records or gives testimony related to those records, except as expressly authorized by the NCUA or as ordered by a federal court after NCUA has had the opportunity to be heard, may face the penalties provided in 18 U.S.C. 641 and other applicable laws. Also, former NCUA employees, in addition to the prohibition contained in this subpart, are subject to the restrictions and penalties of 18 U.S.C. 207.
§ 792.41
When does this subpart apply?
This subpart applies if you want to obtain nonpublic records or testimony of an NCUA employee for legal proceedings. It doesn't apply to the release of records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, or the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or the release of records to federal or state investigatory agencies under § 792.32.
[62 FR 56054, Oct. 29, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 63789, Oct. 25, 2000]
§ 792.42
How do I request nonpublic records or testimony?
(a) To request nonpublic records or the testimony of an NCUA employee, you must submit a written request to the General Counsel of the NCUA. If you serve a subpoena on the NCUA or an NCUA employee before submitting a written request and receiving a final determination, the NCUA will oppose the subpoena on the grounds that you failed to follow the requirements of this subpart. You may serve a subpoena as long as it is accompanied by a written request that complies with this subpart.
(b) To request nonpublic records that are part of the records of the Office of the Inspector General or the testimony of an NCUA employee on matters within the knowledge of the NCUA employee as a result of his or her employment with the Office of the Inspector General, you must submit a written request to the Office of the Inspector General. Your request will be handled in accordance with the provisions of this subpart except that the Inspector General will be responsible for those determinations that would otherwise be made by the General Counsel.
§ 792.43
What must my written request contain?
Your written request for records or testimony must include:
(a) The caption of the legal proceeding, docket number, and name of the court or other authority involved.
(b) A copy of the complaint or equivalent document setting forth the assertions in the case and any other pleading or document necessary to show relevance.
(c) A list of categories of records sought, a detailed description of how the information sought is relevant to the issues in the legal proceeding, and a specific description of the substance of the testimony or records sought.
(d) A statement as to how the need for the information outweighs the need to maintain the confidentiality of the information and outweighs the burden on the NCUA to produce the records or provide testimony.
(e) A statement indicating that the information sought is not available from another source, such as a credit union's own books and records, other persons or entities, or the testimony of someone other than an NCUA employee, for example, retained experts.
(f) A description of all prior decisions, orders, or pending motions in the case that bear upon the relevance of the records or testimony you want.
(g) The name, address, and telephone number of counsel to each party in the case.
(h) An estimate of the amount of time you anticipate that you and other parties will need with each NCUA employee for interviews, depositions, or testifying.
§ 792.44
When should I make a request?
You should submit your request at least 45 days before the date that you need the records or testimony. If you want to have your request processed in less time, you must explain why you couldn't submit the request earlier and why you need expedited processing. If you are requesting the testimony of an NCUA employee, the NCUA expects you to anticipate your need for the testimony in sufficient time to obtain it by a deposition. The General Counsel may deny a request for testimony at a legal proceeding unless you explain why you could not use deposition testimony. The General Counsel will determine the location of a deposition taking into consideration the NCUA's interest in minimizing the disruption for an NCUA employee's work schedule and the costs and convenience of other persons attending the deposition.
§ 792.45
Where do I send my request?
You must send your request or subpoena for records or testimony to the attention of the General Counsel for the NCUA, Office of General Counsel, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428. You must send your request or subpoena for records or testimony from the Office of the Inspector General to the attention of the NCUA Inspector General, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428.
§ 792.46
What will the NCUA do with my request?
(a)
Factors the NCUA will consider.
The NCUA may consider various factors in reviewing a request for nonpublic records or testimony of NCUA employees, including:
(1) Whether disclosure would assist or hinder the NCUA in performing its statutory duties or use NCUA resources unreasonably, including whether responding to the request will interfere with NCUA employees' ability to do their work.
(2) Whether disclosure is necessary to prevent the perpetration of a fraud or other injustice in the matter or if you can get the records or testimony you want from sources other than the NCUA.
(3) Whether the request is unduly burdensome.
(4) Whether disclosure would violate a statute, executive order, or regulation, for example, the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(5) Whether disclosure would reveal confidential, sensitive or privileged information, trade secrets or similar, confidential commercial or financial information, or would otherwise be inappropriate for release and, if so, whether a confidentiality agreement or protective order as provided in § 792.48(a) can adequately limit the disclosure.
(6) Whether the disclosure would interfere with law enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, or hamper NCUA research or investigatory activities.
(7) Whether the disclosure could result in NCUA appearing to favor one litigant over another.
(8) Any other factors the NCUA determines to be relevant to the interests of the NCUA.
(b)
Review of your request.
The NCUA will process your request in the order it is received. The NCUA will try to respond to your request within 45 days, but this may vary depending on the scope of your request.
(c)
Final determination.
The General Counsel makes the final determination on requests for nonpublic records or NCUA employee testimony. All final determinations are in the sole discretion of the General Counsel. The General Counsel will notify you and the court or other authority of the final determination of your request. In considering your request, the General Counsel may contact you to inform you of the requirements of this subpart, ask that the request or subpoena be modified or withdrawn, or may try to resolve the request or subpoena informally without issuing a final determination. You may seek judicial review of the final determination under
the Administrative Procedure Act. 5 U.S.C. 702.
§ 792.47
If my request is granted, what fees apply?
(a)
Generally.
You must pay any fees associated with complying with your request, including copying fees for records and witness fees for testimony. The General Counsel may condition the production of records or appearance for testimony upon advance payment of a reasonable estimate of the fees.
(b)
Fees for records.
You must pay all fees for searching, reviewing and duplicating records produced in response to your request. The fees will be the same as those charged by the NCUA under its Freedom of Information Act regulations, § 792.19.
(c)
Witness fees.
You must pay the fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules for attendance by a witness. If no such fees are prescribed, the local federal district court rule concerning witness fees, for the federal district court closest to where the witness appears, will apply. For testimony by current NCUA employees, you must pay witness fees, allowances, and expenses to the General Counsel by check made payable to the “National Credit Union Administration” within 30 days from receipt of NCUA's billing statement. For the testimony of a former NCUA employee, you must pay witness fees, allowances, and expenses directly to the former employee, in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable statutes.
(d)
Certification of records.
The NCUA may authenticate or certify records to facilitate their use as evidence. If you require authenticated records, you must request certified copies at least 45 days before the date they will be needed. The request should be sent to the General Counsel. You will be charged a certification fee of $5.00 per document.
(e)
Waiver of fees.
A waiver or reduction of any fees in connection with the testimony, production, or certification or authentication of records may be granted in the discretion of the General Counsel. Waivers will not be granted routinely. If you request a waiver, your request for records or testimony must state the reasons why a waiver should be granted.
[62 FR 56054, Oct. 29, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 63789, Oct. 25, 2000]
§ 792.48
If my request is granted, what restrictions apply?
(a)
Records.
The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of nonpublic records, including a requirement that you obtain a protective order or execute a confidentiality agreement with the other parties in the legal proceeding that limits access to and any further disclosure of the nonpublic records. The terms of a confidentiality agreement or protective order must be acceptable to the General Counsel. In cases where protective orders or confidentiality agreements have already been executed, the NCUA may condition the release of nonpublic records on an amendment to the existing protective order or confidentiality agreement.
(b)
Testimony.
The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the testimony of NCUA employees, including, for example, limiting the areas of testimony or requiring you and the other parties to the legal proceeding to agree that the transcript of the testimony will be kept under seal or will only be used or made available in the particular legal proceeding for which you requested the testimony. The General Counsel may also require you to provide a copy of the transcript of the testimony to the NCUA at your expense.
§ 792.49
Definitions.
Legal proceedings
means any matter before any federal, state or foreign administrative or judicial authority, including courts, agencies, commissions, boards or other tribunals, involving such proceedings as lawsuits, licensing matters, hearings, trials, discovery, investigations, mediation or arbitration. When the NCUA is a party to a legal proceeding, it will be subject to the applicable rules of civil procedure governing production of documents and witnesses, however, this subpart will still apply to the testimony of former NCUA employees.
NCUA employee
means current and former officials, members of the Board,
officers, directors, employees and agents of the National Credit Union Administration, including contract employees and consultants and their employees. This definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the NCUA and are retained or hired as expert witnesses or agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment.
Nonpublic records
means any NCUA records that are exempt from disclosure under § 792.11, the NCUA regulations implementing the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. For example, this means records created in connection with NCUA's examination and supervision of insured credit unions, including examination reports, internal memoranda, and correspondence, and, also, records created in connection with NCUA's enforcement and investigatory responsibilities.
Subpoena
means any order, subpoena for records or other tangible things or for testimony, summons, notice or legal process issued in a legal proceeding.
Testimony
means any written or oral statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding including personal appearances in court or at depositions, interviews in person or by telephone, responses to written interrogatories or other written statements such as reports, declarations, affidavits, or certifications or any response involving more than the delivery of records.
[62 FR 56054, Oct. 29, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 63789, Oct. 25, 2000]

# Subpart D—Security Procedures for Classified Information
§ 792.50
Program.
(a) The NCUA's Executive Director is designated as the person responsible for implementation and oversight of NCUA's program for maintaining the security of confidential information regarding national defense and foreign relations. The Executive Director receives questions, suggestions and complaints regarding all elements of this program. The Executive Director is solely responsible for changes to the program and assures that the program is consistent with legal requirements.
(b) The Executive Director is the Agency's official contact for declassification requests regardless of the point of origin of such requests.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 36042, July 15, 1994; 67 FR 30774, May 8, 2002; 73 FR 30478, May 28, 2008; 78 FR 32546, May 31, 2013]
§ 792.51
Procedures.
(a)
Mandatory review.
All declassification requests made by a member of the public, by a government employee or by an agency shall be handled by the Executive Director or the Executive Director's designee. Under no circumstances shall the Executive Director refuse to confirm the existence or nonexistence of a document under the Freedom of Information Act or the mandatory review provisions of other applicable law, unless the fact of its existence or nonexistence would itself be classifiable under applicable law. Although NCUA has no authority to classify or declassify information, it occasionally handles information classified by another agency. The Executive Director shall refer all declassification requests to the agency that originally classified the information. The Executive Director or the Executive Director's designee shall notify the requesting person or agency that the request has been referred to the originating agency and that all further inquiries and appeals must be made directly to the other agency.
(b)
Handling and safeguarding national security information.
All information classified “Top Secret,” “Secret,” and “Confidential” shall be delivered to the Executive Director or the Executive Director's designee immediately upon receipt. The Executive Director shall advise those who may come into possession of such information of the name of the current designee. If the Executive Director is unavailable, the designee shall lock the documents, unopened, in the combination safe located in the secure facility of the Office of the Executive Director. If the Executive Director or the Executive Director's designee is unavailable to
receive such documents, the documents shall be delivered in accordance with NCUA's mail handling procedures for classified information. Under no circumstances shall classified materials that cannot be delivered to the Executive Director or the Executive Director's designee be stored in a location other than in the safe designated by the Executive Director for information classified “Top Secret,” “Secret,” and “Confidential.”
(c)
Storage.
All classified documents shall be stored in the safe designated by the Executive Director for information classified “Top Secret,” “Secret,” and “Confidential.” The combination shall be known only to the Executive Director and the Executive Director's designee holding the proper security clearance.
(d)
Employee education.
(1) The Executive Director shall send a memo to every NCUA employee who:
(i) Has a security clearance; and
(ii) May handle classified materials.
(2) This memo shall describe NCUA procedures for handling, reproducing and storing classified documents. The Executive Director shall require each such employee to review applicable Executive Orders on the classification of national security information.
(e)
Agency terminology.
The National Credit Union Administration's Central Office shall use the terms “Top Secret,” “Secret” or “Confidential” only in relation to materials classified for national security purposes.
[63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 30774, May 8, 2002; 73 FR 30478, May 28, 2008; 78 FR 32547, May 31, 2013]

# Subpart E—The Privacy Act

# Source:
54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998. Nomenclature change at 73 FR 56938, Oct. 1, 2008.
§ 792.52
Scope.
This subpart governs requests made of NCUA under the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a). The regulation applies to all records maintained by NCUA which contain personal information about an individual and some means of identifying the individual, and which are contained in a system of records from which information may be retrieved by use of an identifying particular; sets forth procedures whereby individuals may seek and gain access to records concerning themselves and request amendments of those records; and sets forth requirements applicable to NCUA employees' maintaining, collecting, using, or disseminating such records.
§ 792.53
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(b)
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
(c)
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by NCUA, and that contains the name, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
(d)
System of records
means a group of any records under NCUA's control from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
(e)
Routine use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.
(f)
Statistical record
means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by section 8 of title 13 of the United States Code.
(g)
Notice of Systems of Records
means the annual notice published by NCUA in the
Federal Register
informing the public of the existence and character of the systems of records it maintains. The Notice of Systems of Records also is available on NCUA's Web site at
http://www.ncua.gov.
(h)
System manager
means the NCUA official responsible for the maintenance, collection, use or distribution of information contained in a system of records. The system manager for each system of records is provided in the
Federal Register
publication of
NCUA's annual systems of records notice.
(i)
Working day
means Monday through Friday excluding legal public holidays.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 73 FR 56938, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.54
Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records in a system of records.
(a) Individuals desiring to know if a system of records contains records pertaining to them, and individuals requesting access to records in a system of records pertaining to them should submit a written request to the appropriate system manager as identified in the Notice of Systems of Records. An individual who does not have access to the
Federal Register
and who is unable to determine the appropriate system manager to whom to submit a request may submit a request to the Privacy Officer, Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428, in which case the request will be referred to the appropriate system manager.
(b) Individuals requesting notification of, or access to, records should include the words “PRIVACY ACT REQUEST” on both the letter and, as appropriate, the envelope, cover document or subject line; describe the record sought; the approximate dates covered by the record; and, the systems of record in which records are thought to be included. Individuals must also meet the identification requirements in § 792.55.
[73 FR 56938, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.55
Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests and identification of records requested.
(a) The following standards are applicable to an individual submitting requests either in person or by mail under § 792.54:
(1) Individuals appearing in person, if not personally known to the system manager responding to the request, must present a single document bearing a photograph (such as a passport or identification badge) or two items of identification which do not bear a photograph but do bear both a name and address (such as a driver's license or voter registration card);
(2) Individuals submitting requests by mail or written electronic form, such as facsimile or e-mail, may establish identity by a signature, address, date of birth, employee identification number if any, and one other identifier such as a photocopy of driver's license or other document. If inadequate identifying information is provided, the system manager responding to the request may require further identifying information before any notification or responsive disclosure.
(3) Individuals appearing in person or submitting requests by mail or written electronic form, who cannot provide the required documentation or identification, may provide an unsworn declaration subscribed to as true under penalty of perjury.
(b) The parent or guardian of a minor or a person judicially determined to be incompetent shall, in addition to establishing identity of the minor or other person as required in paragraph (a) of this section, furnish a copy of a birth certificate showing parentage or a court order establishing guardianship.
(c) A record may be disclosed to a representative of an individual to whom the record pertains provided the system manager receives written authorization from the individual who is the subject of the record.
(d) An individual seeking to review records about that individual may be accompanied by another person of their own choosing. In such cases, the individual seeking access shall be required to furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of that individual's records in the accompanying person's presence.
(e) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section, the published “Notice of System of Records” for individual systems may include further requirements of identification where necessary to retrieve the individual records from the system.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989. Redesignated at 63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 57365, Oct. 25, 1999; 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000; 73 FR 56939, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.56
Notice of existence of records, access decisions and disclosure of requested information; time limits.
(a) The system manager identified in the record access procedure section of the “Notice of Systems of Records” and identified in accordance with § 792.54(a), by an individual seeking notification of, or access to, a record, shall be responsible:
(1) For determining whether access is available under the Privacy Act; (2) for notifying the requesting individual of that determination; and (3) for providing access to information determined to be available. In the case of an individual access request made in person, information determined to be available shall be provided by allowing a personal review of the record or portion of a record containing the information requested and determined to be available, and the individual shall be allowed to have a copy of all or any portion of available information made in a form comprehensible to him. In the case of an individual access request made by mail, information determined to be available shall be provided by mail, unless the individual has requested otherwise.
(b) The following time limits shall be applicable to the required determinations, notification and provisions of access set forth in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) A request concerning a single system of records which does not require consultation with or requisition of records from another agency will be responded to within 20 working days after receipt of the request.
(2) A request requiring requisition of records from or consultation with another agency will be responded to within 30 working days of receipt of the request.
(3) If a request under paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section presents unusual difficulties in determining whether the records involved are exempt from disclosure, the Privacy Act Officer, in the Office of General Counsel, may extend the time period established by the regulations by 10 working days.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding, or any information exempted from the access provisions of the Privacy Act.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 36042, July 15, 1994; 64 FR 57365, Oct. 25, 1999; 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000]
§ 792.57
Special procedures: Information furnished by other agencies; medical records.
(a) When a request for records or information from NCUA includes information furnished by other Federal agencies, the system manager responsible for action on the request shall consult with the appropriate agency prior to making a decision to disclose or refuse access to the record, but the decision whether to disclose the record shall be made in the first instance by the system manager.
(b) Medical records may be disclosed on request to the individuals to whom they pertain unless disclosing the medical information directly to the requesting individual could have an adverse effect on the individual. Where medical information is potentially adverse to the requesting individual, the system manager responsible may advise the requesting individual that the medical records will be transmitted only to a physician designated in writing by the individual.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989. Redesignated at 63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000; 73 FR 56939, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.58
Requests for correction or amendment to a record; administrative review of requests.
(a) An individual may request amendment of a record concerning that individual by submitting a written request, either in person or by mail, to the system manager identified in the Notice of Systems of Records. The words “PRIVACY ACT—REQUEST TO AMEND RECORD” should be written on the letter and the envelope. The request must describe the system of records containing the record sought to be amended, indicate the particular record involved, the nature of the correction sought, and the justification for the correction or amendment. An individual who does not have access to NCUA's Notice of Systems of Records,
and to whom the appropriate address is otherwise unavailable, may submit a request to the Privacy Act Officer, Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314-3428, in which case the request will then be referred to the appropriate system manager. The date of receipt of the request will be determined as of the date of receipt by the system manager.
(b) Within 10 working days of receipt of the request, the appropriate system manager shall advise the individual that the request has been received. The appropriate system manager will promptly (under normal circumstances, not later than 30 working days after receipt of the request) advise the individual that the record will be amended or corrected, or inform the individual of rejection of the request to amend the record, the reason for the rejection, and the procedures established by § 792.59 for the individual to request a review of that rejection.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 36041, 36042, July 15, 1994; 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000; 73 FR 56939, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.59
Appeal of initial determination.
(a) A rejection, in whole or in part, of a request to amend or correct a record may be appealed to the General Counsel within 30 working days of receipt of notice of the rejection. Appeals shall be in writing, and shall set forth the specific item of information sought to be corrected and the documentation justifying the correction. Appeals must be addressed to the Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428 with the words “PRIVACY ACT—APPEAL” written on the letter and the envelope. Appeals shall be decided within 30 working days of receipt unless the General Counsel, for good cause, extends such period for an additional 30 working days.
(b) Within the time limits set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the General Counsel shall either advise the individual of a decision to amend or correct the record, or advise the individual of a determination that an amendment or correction is not warranted on the facts, in which case the individual shall be advised of the right to provide for the record a “Statement of Disagreement” and of the right to further appeal pursuant to the Privacy Act. For records under the jurisdiction of the Office of Personnel Management, appeals will be made pursuant to that agency's regulations.
(c) If an appeal under this section is denied in whole or in part, an individual may file a statement of disagreement concisely stating the reason(s) for disagreeing with the denial for amendment or correction, and clearly identifying each part of any record that is disputed. The statement must be sent within 30 working days of the date of receipt of the notice of General Counsel's refusal to authorize amendment or correction, to the General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. Upon receipt of a statement of disagreement in accordance with this section, the General Counsel shall take steps to ensure that the statement is included in the system of records containing the disputed item and that the original item is so marked to indicate that there is a statement of dispute and where, within the system of records, that statement may be found.
(d) When a record has been amended or corrected or a statement of disagreement has been furnished, the system manger for the system of records containing the record shall, within 30 days thereof, advise all prior recipients of information to which the amendment or statement of disagreement relates whose identity can be determined by an accounting made as required by the Privacy Act of 1974 or any other accounting previously made, of the amendment or statement of disagreement. When a statement of disagreement has been furnished, the system manager shall also provide any subsequent recipient of a disclosure containing information to which the statement relates with a copy of the statement and note the disputed portion of the information disclosed. A concise statement of the reasons for not making the requested amendment may also be provided if deemed appropriate.
(e) If access is denied because of an exemption, the individual will be notified of the right to appeal that determination to the General Counsel within 30 days after receipt. Appeals will be determined within 20 working days.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 36041, July 15, 1994; 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000; 73 FR 56939, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.60
Disclosure of record to person other than the individual to whom it pertains.
No record or item of information concerning an individual which is contained in a system of records maintained by NCUA shall be disclosed by any means of communication to any person, or to another agency, without the prior written consent of the individual to whom the record or item of information pertains, unless the disclosure would be—
(a) To an employee of the NCUA who has need for the record in the performance of duty;
(b) Required by the Freedom of Information Act;
(c) For a routine use as described in the “Notice of Systems of Records,” published in the
Federal Register,
which describes the system of records in which the record or item of information is contained;
(d) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to the provisions of title 13 of the United States Code;
(e) To a recipient who has provided the NCUA with advance adequate written assurance that the record or item will be used soley as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable;
(f) To the National Archives and Records Administration as a record or item which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, or for evaluation by the Archivist of the United States or the designee of the Archivist to determine whether the record has such value;
(g) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to NCUA specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record or item is sought;
(h) To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if, upon such disclosure, notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual;
(i) To either House of Congress, or, to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee;
(j) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the Government Accountability Office;
(k) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction; or
(l) To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with section 3711(f) of title 31 of the United States Code (31 U.S.C. 3711(f)).
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 73 FR 56939, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.61
Accounting for disclosures.
(a) Each system manager identified in the “Notice of Systems of Records” must establish a system of accounting for all disclosures of information or records under the Privacy Act made outside NCUA. Accounting procedures may be established in the least expensive and most convenient form that will permit the system manager to advise individuals, promptly upon request, of the persons or agencies to which records concerning them have been disclosed.
(b) Accounting records, at a minimum, shall include the information disclosed, the name and address of the person or agency to whom disclosure was made, and the date of disclosure. When records are transferred to the National Archives and Records Administration for storage in records centers, the accounting pertaining to those records shall be transferred with the records themselves.
(c) Any accounting made under this section shall be retained for at least five years or the life of the record, whichever is longer, after the disclosure for which the accounting is made.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 73 FR 56939, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.62
Requests for accounting for disclosures.
At the time of the request for access or correction or at any other time, an individual may request an accounting of disclosures made of the individual's record outside the NCUA. Request for accounting shall be directed to the system manager. Any available accounting, whether kept in accordance with the requirements of the Privacy Act or under procedures established prior to September 27, 1975, shall be made available to the individual, except that an accounting need not be made available if it relates to:
(a) A disclosure made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);
(b) A disclosure made within the NCUA;
(c) A disclosure made to a law enforcement agency pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7);
(d) A disclosure which has been exempted from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) or (k).
§ 792.63
Collection of information from individuals; information forms.
(a) The system manager for each system of records is responsible for reviewing all forms developed and used to collect information from or about individuals for incorporation into the system of records.
(b) The purpose of the review shall be to eliminate any requirement for information that is not relevant and necessary to carry out an NCUA function and to accomplish the following objectives:
(1) To ensure that no information concerning religion, political beliefs or activities, association memberships (other than those required for a professional license), or the exercise of other First Amendment rights is required to be disclosed unless such requirement of disclosure is expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained, or unless pertinent to and within the scope of any authorized law enforcement activity;
(2) To ensure that the form or accompanying statement makes clear to the individual which information by law must be disclosed and the authority for that requirement, and which information is voluntary;
(3) To ensure that the form or accompanying statement makes clear the principal purpose or purposes for which the information is being collected, and states concisely the routine uses that will be made of the information;
(4) To ensure that the form or accompanying statement clearly indicates to the individual the effects on him or her, if any, of refusing to provide some or all of the requested information; and
(5) To ensure that any form requesting disclosure of a social security number, or an accompanying statement, clearly advises the individual of the statute or regulation requiring disclosure of the number, or clearly advises the individual that disclosure is voluntary and that no consequence will flow from a refusal to disclose it, and the uses that will be made of the number whether disclosed mandatorily or voluntarily.
(c) Any form which does not meet the objectives specified in the Privacy Act and this section shall be revised to conform thereto.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 73 FR 56939, Oct. 1, 2008]
§ 792.64
Contracting for the operation of a system of records.
(a) No NCUA component shall contract for the operation of a system of records by or on behalf of the Agency without the express approval of the NCUA Board.
(b) Any contract which is approved shall continue to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Privacy Act. The contracting component shall have the responsibility for ensuring that the contractor complies with the contract requirements relating to the Privacy Act.
§ 792.65
Fees.
(a) Fees pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(5) shall be assessed for actual copies of records provided to individuals on the following basis, unless the system manager determining access waives the fee because of the inability of the individual to pay or the cost of collecting the fee exceeds the fee:
(1) For copies of documents provided, copy fees as stated in NCUA's current FOIA fee schedule; and
(2) For copying information, if any, maintained in nondocument form, the direct cost to NCUA may be assessed.
(b) If it is determined that access fees chargeable under this section will amount to more than $25, and the individual has not indicated in advance willingness to pay fees as high as are anticipated, the individual shall be notified of the amount of the anticipated fees before copies are made, and the individual's access request shall not be considered to have been received until receipt by NCUA of written agreement to pay.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989. Redesignated at 63 FR 14338, Mar. 25, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000]
§ 792.66
Exemptions.
(a) NCUA maintains several systems of records that are exempted from some provisions of the Privacy Act. The system number and name, description of records contained in the system, exempted provisions and reasons for exemption are as follows:
(b)(1) System NCUA-1, entitled “Employee Suitability Security Investigations Containing Adverse Information,” consists of adverse information about NCUA employees that had been obtained as a result of routine U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) security investigations. To the extent that NCUA maintains records in this system pursuant to OPM guidelines that may require retrieval of information by use of individual identifiers, those records are encompassed by and included in the OPM Central system of records number Central-9 entitled, “Personnel Investigations Records,” and thus are subject to the exemptions promulgated by OPM. Additionally, in order to ensure the protection of properly confidential sources, particularly as to those records which are not maintained pursuant to such Office of Personnel Management requirements, the records in these systems of records are exempted, pursuant to section k(5) of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5)), from section (d) of the Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(d)). To the extent that disclosure of a record would reveal the identity of a confidential source, NCUA need not grant access to that record by its subject. Information which would reveal a confidential source shall, however, whenever possible, be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source and the summary or extract shall be provided to the requesting individual.
(2) System NCUA-8, entitled, “Investigative Reports Involving Any Crime or Suspicious Activity Against a Credit Union, NCUA,” consists of investigatory or enforcement records about individuals suspected of involvement in violations of laws or regulations, whether criminal or administrative. These records are maintained in an overall context of general investigative information concerning crimes against credit unions. To the extent that individually identifiable information is maintained for purposes of protecting the security of any investigations by appropriate law enforcement authorities and promoting the successful prosecution of all actual criminal activity, the records in this system are exempted, pursuant to section k(2) of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2)), from sections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (f), and (g). The records in this system are also exempted pursuant to section (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), from sections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (f), and (g). Where possible, information that would identify a confidential source will be extracted or summarized in a manner that protects the source and the summary or extract will be provided to the requesting individual.
(3) System NCUA-20, entitled, “Office of Inspector General (OIG) Investigative Records,” consists of OIG records of closed and pending investigations of individuals alleged to have been involved in criminal violations. The
records in this system are exempted pursuant to sections (k)(2) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), from sections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f). The records in this system are also exempted pursuant to section (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), from sections (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), and (g). NCUA need not make an accounting of previous disclosures of a record in this system of records available to its subject, and NCUA need not grant access to any records in this system of records by their subject. Further, whenever individuals request records about themselves and maintained in this system of records, the NCUA will advise the individuals only that no records available to them pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 have been identified. However, if review of the record reveals that the information contained therein has been used or is being used to deny the individuals any right, privilege or benefit for which they are eligible or to which they would otherwise be entitled under federal law, the individuals will be advised of the existence of the information and will be provided the information, except to the extent disclosure would identify a confidential source. Where possible, information which would identify a confidential source will be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source and the summary or extract will be provided to the requesting individual.
(4) System NCUA-13, entitled, “Litigation Case Files,” consists of investigatory materials compiled for law enforcement purposes. Records in the Litigation Case Files system are used in connection with the execution of NCUA's legal and enforcement responsibilities. Because the system covers investigatory materials compiled for law enforcement purposes, it is eligible for exemption under subsection (k)(2) of the Privacy Act. 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). The Litigation Case Files system is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I) and (f) of the Privacy Act. 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I) and (f). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit to which he would otherwise be entitled by federal law, or for which he otherwise would be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such records, the records or information will be made available to him, provided the identity of a confidential source is not disclosed. NCUA need not make an accounting of previous disclosures of a record in this system of records available to its subject, and NCUA need not grant access to any records in this system of records by their subject. Further, whenever individuals request records about themselves and maintained in this system of records, the NCUA will advise the individuals only that no records available to them pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 have been identified. However, if review of the record reveals that the information contained therein has been used or is being used to deny the individuals any right, privilege or benefit for which they are eligible or to which they would otherwise be entitled under federal law, the individuals will be advised of the existence of the information and will be provided the information, except to the extent disclosure would identify a confidential source. Where possible, information that would identify a confidential source will be extracted or summarized in a manner which protects the source and the summary or extract will be provided to the requesting individual.
(c) For purposes of this section, a “confidential source” means a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would remain confidential, or, prior to September 27, 1976, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 31912, June 19, 1995; 64 FR 57365, Oct. 25, 1999; 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000; 73 FR 56940, Oct. 1, 2008; 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010]
§ 792.67
Security of systems of records.
(a) Each system manager, with the approval of the head of that Office, shall establish administrative and physical controls to insure the protection of a system of records from unauthorized access or disclosure and from physical damage or destruction. The controls instituted shall be proportional to the degree of sensitivity of
the records, but at a minimum must insure: that records are enclosed in a manner to protect them from public view; that the area in which the records are stored is supervised during all business hours to prevent unauthorized personnel from entering the area or obtaining access to the records; and that the records are inaccessible during nonbusiness hours.
(b) Each system manager, with the approval of the head of that Office, shall adopt access restriction to insure that only those individuals within the agency who have a need to have access to the records for the performance of duty have access. Procedures shall also be adopted to prevent accidental access to or dissemination of records.
§ 792.68
Use and collection of Social Security numbers.
The head of each NCUA Office shall take such measures as are necessary to ensure that employees authorized to collect information from individuals are advised that individuals may not be required without statutory or regulatory authorization to furnish Social Security numbers, and that individuals who are requested to provide Social Security numbers voluntarily must be advised that furnishing the number is not required and that no penalty or denial of benefits will flow from the refusal to provide it.
§ 792.69
Training and employee standards of conduct with regard to privacy.
(a) The Director of the Office of Human Resources, with advice from the Senior Privacy Act Officer, is responsible for training NCUA employees in the obligations imposed by the Privacy Act and this subpart.
(b) The head of each NCUA Office shall be responsible for assuring that employees subject to that person's supervision are advised of the provisions of the Privacy Act, including the criminal penalties and civil liabilities provided therein, and that such employees are made aware of their responsibilities to protect the security of personal information, to assure its accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness, to avoid unauthorized disclosure either orally or in writing, and to insure that no information system concerning individuals, no matter how small or specialized, is maintained without public notice.
(c) With respect to each system of records maintained by NCUA, Agency employees shall:
(1) Collect no information of a personal nature from individuals unless authorized to collect it to achieve a function or carry out an NCUA responsibility;
(2) Collect from individuals only that information which is necessary to NCUA functions or responsibilities;
(3) Collect information, wherever possible, directly from the individual to whom it relates;
(4) Inform individuals from whom information is collected of the authority for collection, the purposes thereof, the routine uses that will be made of the information, and the effects, both legal and practical of not furnishing the information;
(5) Not collect, maintain, use, or disseminate information concerning an individual's religious or political beliefs or activities or his membership in associations or organizations, unless:
(i) The individual has volunteered such information for his own benefit;
(ii) The information is expressly authorized by statute to be collected, maintained, used, or disseminated; or
(iii) Activities involved are pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized investigation or adjudication.
(6) Advise their supervisors of the existence or contemplated development of any record system which retrieves information about individuals by individual identifier.
(7) Maintain an accounting, in the prescribed form, of all dissemination of personal information outside NCUA, whether made orally or in writing;
(8) Disseminate no information concerning individuals outside NCUA except when authorized by 5 U.S.C. 552a or pursuant to a routine use as set forth in the “routine use” section of the “Notice of Systems of Records” published in the
Federal Register.
(9) Maintain and process information concerning individuals with care in order to ensure that no inadvertent disclosure of the information is made either within or outside NCUA; and
(10) Call to the attention of the proper NCUA authorities any information in a system maintained by NCUA which is not authorized to be maintained under the provisions of the Privacy Act, including information on First Amendment activities, information that is inaccurate, irrelevant or so incomplete as to risk unfairness to the individuals concerned.
(c) Heads of offices within NCUA shall, at least annually, review the record systems subject to their supervision to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Privacy Act.
[54 FR 18476, May 1, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 36042, July 15, 1994; 65 FR 63790, Oct. 25, 2000; 67 FR 30774, May 8, 2002; 73 FR 56940, Oct. 1, 2008]
Pt. 793

# PART 793—TORT CLAIMS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
793.1
Scope of regulations.

# Subpart B—Procedures
793.2
Administrative claim; when presented; place of filing.
793.3
Administrative claim; who may file.
793.4
Administrative claims; evidence and information to be submitted.
793.5
Investigation, examination, and determination of claims.
793.6
Final denial of claim.
793.7
Payment of approved claims.
793.8
Release.
793.9
Penalties.
793.10
Limitation of National Credit Union Administration's authority.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1766.

# Source:
37 FR 5928, Mar. 23, 1972, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 559, Jan. 5, 1984.

# Subpart A—General
§ 793.1
Scope of regulations.
The regulation in this part shall apply only to claims asserted under the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2671-2680, accruing on or after January 18, 1967, for money damages against the United States for damage to or loss of property or personal injury or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the National Credit Union Administration while acting within the scope of his office of employment.

# Subpart B—Procedures
§ 793.2
Administrative claim; when presented; place of filing.
(a) For purposes of the regulations in this part, a claim shall be deemed to have been presented when the National Credit Union Administration receives, at a place designated in paragraph (b) of this section, an executed Standard Form 95 or other written notification of an incident accompanied by a claim for money damages in a sum certain for damage to or loss of property, for personal injury, or for death, alleged to have occurred by reason of the incident. A claim which should have been presented to the National Credit Union Administration but which was mistakenly addressed to or filed with another Federal agency, shall be deemed to be presented to the National Credit Union Administration as of the date that the claim is received by the National Credit Union Administration. A claim mistakenly addressed to or filed with the National Credit Union Administration shall forthwith be transferred to the appropriate Federal agency, if ascertainable, or returned to the claimant.
(b) A claim presented in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section may be amended by the claimant at any time prior to final action by the Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration or prior to the exercise of the claimant's option to bring suit under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a). Amendments shall be submitted in writing and signed by the claimant or his duly authorized agent or legal representative. Upon the timely filing of an amendment to a pending claim, the National Credit Union Administration shall have 6 months in which to make a final disposition of the claim as amended and the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) shall not accrue until 6 months after the filing of an amendment.
(c) Forms may be obtained and claims may be filed with the regional office of the National Credit Union Administration having jurisdiction over the employee involved in the accident
or incident, or with the Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.
[37 FR 5928, Mar. 23, 1972. Redesignated at 49 FR 559, Jan. 5, 1984, and amended at 59 FR 36041, July 15, 1994]
§ 793.3
Administrative claim; who may file.
(a) A claim for injury to or loss of property may be presented by the owner of the property interest which is the subject matter of the claim, his duly authorized agent, or his legal representative.
(b) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person, his duly authorized agent, or his legal representative.
(c) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate or by any other person legally entitled to assert such a claim under applicable State law.
(d) A claim for loss wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer. A claim for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer or the insured individually, as their respective interests appear, or jointly. Whenever an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, he shall present with his claim appropriate evidence that he has the rights of a subrogee.
(e) A claim presented by an agent or legal representative shall be presented in the name of the claimant, be signed by the agent or legal representative, show the title or legal capacity of the person signing, and be accompanied by evidence of his authority to present a claim on behalf of the claimant as agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian, or other representative.
§ 793.4
Administrative claims; evidence and information to be submitted.
(a)
Death.
In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) An authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing the cause of death, date of death, and age of the decedent.
(2) Decedent's employment or occupation at the time of death, including his monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of his last employment or occupation.
(3) Full names, addresses, birthdates, kinship, and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including those survivors who were dependent for support upon the decedent at the time of his death.
(4) Degree of support afforded by the decedent to each survivor dependent upon him for support at the time of his death.
(5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition before death.
(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death, or itemized receipts or payments for such expenses.
(7) If damages for pain and suffering before death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death.
(8) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on the responsibility of the United States for the death or the damages claimed.
(b)
Personal injury.
In support of a claim based on personal injury, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) A written report by his attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of the treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical and/or mental examination by a physician employed or designated by the National Credit Union Administration. A copy or report of the examining physician shall be made available to the claimant upon the claimant's written request provided that claimant has, upon request, furnished the report referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph and has made or agrees to make available to the National Credit
Union Administration any other physician's reports previously or thereafter made of the physical or mental condition which is the subject of his claim.
(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.
(3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected duration of and expenses for such treatment.
(4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his employer showing actual time lost from his employment, whether he is a full or part time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.
(5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.
(6) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
(c)
Property damage.
In support of a claim for damages to or loss of property, real or personal, the claimant may be required to submit the following information or evidence:
(1) Proof of ownership.
(2) A detailed statement of the amount claimed with respect to each item of property.
(3) An itemized receipt of payment for necessary repairs or itemized written estimates of the cost of such repairs.
(4) A statement listing date of purchase, purchase price, market value of the property as of date of damage, and salvage value, where repair is not economical.
(5) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on the responsibility of the United States for the injury to or loss of property or the damages claimed.
(d)
Time limit.
All evidence required to be submitted by this section shall be furnished by the claimant within a reasonable time. Failure of a claimant to furnish evidence necessary for a determination of his claim within 3 months after a request therefore has been mailed to his last known address may be deemed an abandonment of the claim. The claim may be thereupon disallowed.
[37 FR 5928, Mar. 23, 1972, as amended at 75 FR 34623, June 18, 2010]
§ 793.5
Investigation, examination, and determination of claims.
When a claim is received, the constituent agency out of whose activities the claim arose shall make such investigation as may be necessary or appropriate for a determination of the validity of the claim and thereafter shall forward the claim, together with all pertinent material, and a recommendation based on the merits of the case, with regard to the allowance or disallowance of the claim, to the Office of General Counsel, National Credit Union Administration to whom authority has been delegated to adjust, determine, compromise and settle all claims hereunder.
§ 793.6
Final denial of claim.
(a) Final denial of an administrative claim shall be in writing and sent to the claimant, his attorney, or legal representative by certified or registered mail. The notification of final denial may include a statement of the reasons for the denial and shall include a statement that, if the claimant is dissatisfied with the action of the National Credit Union Administration, he may file suit in an appropriate U.S. District Court not later than 6 months after the date of mailing the notification.
(b) Prior to the commencement of suit and prior to the expiration of the 6-month period after the date of mailing, by certified or registered mail of notice of final denial of the claim as provided in 28 U.S.C. 2401(b), a claimant, his duly authorized agent, or legal representative, may file a written request with the National Credit Union Administration for reconsideration of a final denial of a claim under paragraph (a) of this section. Upon the timely filing of a request for reconsideration the National Credit Union Administration shall have 6 months from the date of filing in which to make a final disposition of the claim and the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) to bring suit shall not accrue until 6 months
after the filing of a request for reconsideration. Final National Credit Union Administration action on a request for reconsideration shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 793.7
Payment of approved claims.
(a) Upon allowance of his claim, claimant or his duly authorized agent shall sign the voucher for payment, Standard Form 1145, before payment is made.
(b) When the claimant is represented by an attorney, the voucher for payment (S.F. 1145) shall designate both the claimant and his attorney as “payees.” The check shall be delivered to the attorney whose address shall appear on the voucher.
§ 793.8
Release.
Acceptance by the claimant, his agent or legal representative, of any award, compromise or settlement made hereunder, shall be final and conclusive on the claimant, his agent or legal representative and any other person on whose behalf or for whose benefit the claim has been presented, and shall constitute a complete release of any claim against the United States and any employee of the Government whose act or omission gave rise to the claim, by reason of the same subject matter.
§ 793.9
Penalties.
A person who files a false claim or makes a false or fraudulent statement in a claim against the United States may be liable to a fine of not more than $10,000 or to imprisonment of not more than 5 years, or both (18 U.S.C. 287-1001), and, in addition, to a forfeiture of $2,000 and a penalty of double the loss or damage sustained by the United States (31 U.S.C. 231).
§ 793.10
Limitation on National Credit Union Administration's authority.
(a) An award, compromise or settlement of a claim hereunder in excess of $25,000 shall be effected only with the prior written approval of the Attorney General or his designee. For purposes of this paragraph, a principal claim and any derivative or subrogated claim shall be treated as a single claim.
(b) An administrative claim may be adjusted, determined, compromised or settled hereunder only after consultation with the Department of Justice when, in the opinion of the National Credit Union Administration:
(1) A new precedent or a new point of law is involved; or
(2) A question of policy is or may be involved; or
(3) The United States is or may be entitled to indemnity or contribution from a third party and the National Credit Union Administration is unable to adjust the third party claim; or
(4) The compromise of a particular claim, as a practical matter, will or may control the disposition of a related claim in which the amount to be paid may exceed $25,000.
(c) An administrative claim may be adjusted, determined, compromised or settled only after consultation with the Department of Justice when it is learned that the United States or any employee, agent or cost-plus contractor of the United States is involved in litigation based on a claim arising out of the same incident or transaction.
Pt. 794

# PART 794—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
Sec.
794.101
Purpose.
794.102
Application.
794.103
Definitions.
794.104-794.109
[Reserved]
794.110
Self-evaluation.
794.111
Notice.
794.112-794.129
[Reserved]
794.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
794.131-794.139
[Reserved]
794.140
Employment.
794.141-794.148
[Reserved]
794.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
794.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
794.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
794.152-794.159
[Reserved]
794.160
Communications.
794.161-794.169
[Reserved]
794.170
Compliance procedures.
794.171-794.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
51 FR 22889, 22896, June 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 794.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 794.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 794.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alocoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major
life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, a handicapped person who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency.
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can acheive the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 794.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 794.104-794.109
[Reserved]
§ 794.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by August 24, 1987, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 794.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 794.112-794.129
[Reserved]
§ 794.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied
the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangments, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 794.131-794.139
[Reserved]
§ 794.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 794.141-794.148
[Reserved]
§ 794.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 794.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 794.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 794.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 794.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to handicapped persons. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 794.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide handicapped persons into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by October 21, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by August 22, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by February 23, 1987, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 794.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 794.152-794.159
[Reserved]
§ 794.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf person (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and adminstrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 794.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The
decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 794.161-794.169
[Reserved]
§ 794.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Director, Office of Administration, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to NCUA, 1776 G Street NW., Room 7261, Washington, DC 20456.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 794.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 22889, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22889, June 23, 1986; 59 FR 36042, July 15, 1994]
§§ 794.171-794.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 796

# PART 796—POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS FOR CERTAIN NCUA EXAMINERS
Sec.
796.1
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
796.2
Who is considered a senior examiner of the NCUA?
796.3
What special post-employment restrictions apply to senior examiners?
796.4
When do these special restrictions become effective and may they be waived?
796.5
What are the penalties for violating these special post-employment restrictions?
796.6
What other definitions and rules of construction apply for purposes of this part?

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1786(w).

# Source:
70 FR 72703, Dec. 7, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 796.1
What is the purpose and scope of this part?
This part identifies those National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) employees who are subject to the special, post-employment restrictions in section 1786(w) of the Act and implements those restrictions as they apply to NCUA employees.
§ 796.2
Who is considered a senior examiner of the NCUA?
For purposes of this part, an NCUA employee is considered to be the “senior examiner” for a federally insured credit union if the employee—
(a) Has been authorized by NCUA to conduct examinations or inspections of federally insured credit unions on behalf of NCUA;
(b) Has continuing, broad, and lead responsibility for examining or inspecting that federally insured credit union;
(c) Routinely interacts with officers or employees of that federally insured credit union; and
(d) Devotes a substantial portion of his or her time to supervising or examining that federally insured credit union.
§ 796.3
What special post-employment restrictions apply to senior examiners?
(a)
Senior examiners of federally insured credit unions.
An officer or employee of the NCUA who performs work (onsite or offsite) as the senior examiner of a federally insured credit union for a total of two or more months during the last 12 months of individual's employment with NCUA may not, within one year after leaving NCUA employment, knowingly accept compensation as an employee, officer, director, or consultant from that credit union.
(b)
Example.
An NCUA resident corporate credit union examiner assigned to work at a federally insured, corporate credit union for two or more months during the last 12 months of that individual's employment with NCUA will be subject to the one-year prohibition of this section.
§ 796.4
When do these special restrictions become effective and may they be waived?
The post-employment restrictions in section 1786(w) of the Act and § 796.3 do not apply to any current or former NCUA employee, if:
(a) The individual ceased to be an NCUA employee on or before December 17, 2005; or
(b) The Chairman of the NCUA Board certifies in writing and on a case-by-case basis that granting the senior examiner a waiver of the restrictions would not affect the integrity of the NCUA's supervisory program.
§ 796.5
What are the penalties for violating these special post-employment restrictions?
(a)
Penalties under section 1786(w)(5) of the Act.
An NCUA senior examiner who violates the post-employment restrictions set forth in § 796.3 can be:
(1) Removed from participating in the affairs of the relevant credit union and prohibited from participating in the affairs of any federally insured credit union for a period of up to five years; and, alternatively, or in addition,
(2) Assessed a civil monetary penalty up to the amount specified in § 747.1001 of this chapter.
(b)
Other penalties.
The penalties in paragraph (a) of this section are not exclusive, and a senior examiner who violates the restrictions in § 796.3 also may be subject to other administrative, civil, and criminal remedies and penalties as provided in law.
[70 FR 72703, Dec. 7, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 57289, Sept. 23, 2015]
§ 796.6
What other definitions and rules of construction apply for purposes of this part?
For purposes of this part, a person shall be deemed to act as a “
consultant
” for a federally insured credit union or other company only if the person works directly on matters for, or on behalf of, such credit union.
Pt. 797

# PART 797—PROCEDURES FOR DEBT COLLECTION

# Subpart A—Scope, Purpose, Definitions and Delegation of Authority
Sec.
797.1
Scope.
797.2
Purpose.
797.3
Definitions.
797.4
Delegation of authority.

# Subpart B—Administrative Offset
797.5
Authority and scope.
797.6
Administrative offset prior to completion of procedures.
797.7
Procedures.
797.8
Right to agency review.
797.9
Review procedures.
797.10
Special review.
797.11
Interest, administrative costs, and penalties.
797.12
Refunds.
797.13
Requests for administrative offset where NCUA is the creditor agency.
797.14
Requests for administrative offset where NCUA is the paying agency.
797.15
Administrative offset against amounts payable from Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
797.16
Stay of offset.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
797.17
Authority and scope.
797.18
Notice requirements where NCUA is the creditor agency.
797.19
Review of agency records related to the debt.
797.20
Procedures to request a hearing.
797.21
Hearing procedures.
797.22
Voluntary repayment agreement.
797.23
Certification where NCUA is the creditor agency.
797.24
Certification where NCUA is the paying agency.
797.25
Recovery from final check or other payments due a separated employee.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1752a; 5 U.S.C. 5514; 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3716, 3720A, 3720D.

# Source:
73 FR 11341, Mar. 3, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Scope, Purpose, Definitions and Delegation of Authority
§ 797.1
Scope.
This part establishes NCUA procedures for the collection of certain debts owed to the United States.
(a) This part applies to collections by NCUA from:
(1) Federal employees who are indebted to NCUA;
(2) Employees of NCUA who are indebted to other agencies or NCUA; and
(3) Former federal employees who are indebted to NCUA.
(b) This part does not apply:
(1) To debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Title 26, U.S. Code), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), or the tariff laws of the United States;
(2) To a situation to which the Contract Disputes Act (41 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) applies;
(3) In any case where collection of a debt is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute;
(4) To debts owed to or payments made by NCUA in connection with NCUA's conservatorship, liquidation, supervision, enforcement, or insurance responsibilities pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1786 and 1787, nor does it limit or affect NCUA's authority with respect to debts and/or claims pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1752(a) and 1766.
(c) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions, where appropriate, under standards implementing the Debt Collection Improvement Act (DCIA) (31 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.
), the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) (31 CFR parts 900 through 904); or any other applicable law.
§ 797.2
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this part is to implement federal statutes and regulatory standards authorizing NCUA to collect debts owed to the United States. This part is consistent with the following federal statutes and regulations:
(1) DCIA at 31 U.S.C. 3711 (collection and compromise of claims); section 3716 (administrative offset), and section 3717 (interest and penalty on claims).
(2) 5 U.S.C. 5514 (salary offset);
(3) 5 U.S.C. 5584 (waiver of claims for overpayment);
(4) 31 CFR parts 900 through 904 (FCCS);
(5) 5 CFR part 550, subpart K (salary offset);
(6) 31 U.S.C. 3720D, 31 CFR 285.11 (administrative wage garnishment); and
(7) 5 CFR 831.1801 through 1808 (U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset).
(b) Collectively, these statutes and regulations prescribe the manner in which federal agencies should proceed to establish the existence and validity of debts owed to the federal government and describe the remedies available to agencies to offset valid debts.
§ 797.3
Definitions.
Except where the context clearly indicates otherwise or where the term is defined elsewhere in this subpart, the following definitions shall apply to this subpart.
(a) Administrative offset, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding money payable by the United States government to, or held by the government for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the government.
(b) Agency means a department, agency, or instrumentality in the Executive, Judicial, or Legislative branch of the government.
(c) Claim or debt means money or property owed by a person or entity to an agency of the federal government. A “claim” or “debt” includes amounts due the government, fees, services, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures. For purposes of this part, a debt owed to NCUA constitutes a debt owed to the federal government.
(d) Claim certification means a creditor agency's written request to a paying agency to effect an administrative or salary offset.
(e) Creditor agency means an agency to which a claim or debt is owed.
(f) Debtor means the person or entity owing money to the federal government.
(g) Disposable pay means that part of current basic pay or other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld. NCUA shall allow the deductions described in 5 CFR 581.105(b) through (f).
(h) Employee means a current employee of NCUA or another agency.
(i) FCCS means the Federal Claims Collection Standards published in 31 CFR part 900.
(j) Hearing official means an individual who is authorized to conduct a hearing with respect to the existence or amount of a debt claimed and issue a final decision on the basis of such hearing. A hearing official may not be under the supervision or control of NCUA when NCUA is the creditor agency.
(k) NCUA means the National Credit Union Administration.
(l) Paying agency means an agency of the federal government owing money to a debtor against which an administrative or salary offset can be effected.
(m) Salary offset means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deductions at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of a debtor.
(n) Waiver means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or nonrecovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to NCUA or another agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584 or any other law.
§ 797.4
Delegation of authority.
Authority to conduct the following activities is delegated to the Executive Director to:
(a) Initiate and carry out the debt collection process on behalf of NCUA, in accordance with the FCCS;
(b) Accept or reject compromise offers, suspend, terminate or waive collection actions to the full extent of NCUA's legal authority under 12 U.S.C. 1752(a) and 1789; 31 U.S.C. 3711, and any other applicable statute or regulation.
(c) Report to consumer reporting agencies certain data pertaining to delinquent debts, where appropriate;
(d) Use offset procedures, including administrative and salary offset, to collect debts; and
(e) Take any other action necessary to promptly and effectively collect debts owed to the government in accordance with the policies contained
herein and as otherwise provided by law.

# Subpart B—Administrative Offset
§ 797.5
Authority and scope.
NCUA may collect a debt owed to the federal government from a person, organization, or other entity by administrative offset, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716, where:
(a) The debt is certain in amount;
(b) Administrative offset is feasible, desirable, and not otherwise prohibited;
(c) The applicable statute of limitations has not expired; and
(d) Administrative offset is in the best interest of the federal government.
§ 797.6
Administrative offset prior to completion of procedures.
Prior to the completion of the procedures described in § 797.7, NCUA may effect administrative offset if failure to offset would substantially prejudice its ability to collect the debt, and if the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit completion of the procedures described in § 797.7. Such prior administrative offset shall be followed promptly by the completion of the procedures described in § 797.7.
§ 797.7
Procedures.
Prior to collecting any debt by administrative offset or referring such claim to another agency for collection through administrative offset, NCUA shall provide the debtor with a written Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative Offset (the Notice) at least 30 calendar days before administrative offset is to commence.
The Notice shall provide the following information:
(a) The nature and amount of the debt, the intention of NCUA to collect the debt through administrative offset, and a statement of the rights of the debtor under this section, including the right to request a waiver under 5 U.S.C. 5584;
(b) An opportunity to inspect and copy the records of NCUA related to the debt or receive copies if personal inspection is impractical;
(c) The payment due date, which shall be 30 calendar days from the date after receipt of the initial demand for payment;
(d) An opportunity for the debtor to obtain a review of the determination of indebtedness. Any request for review by the debtor shall be in writing and shall be submitted to NCUA within 15 calendar days after receipt of the Notice. NCUA may waive the time limits for requesting review for good cause shown by the debtor. NCUA shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when:
(1) An applicable statute authorizes or requires NCUA to consider waiver of the indebtedness involved, the debtor requests waiver of the indebtedness, and the waiver determination turns on an issue of credibility or veracity; or
(2) The debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and NCUA determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, as for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this subpart is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although NCUA shall document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. In those cases where an oral hearing is not required by this subpart, NCUA shall make its determination on the request for waiver or reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.
(e) An opportunity to enter into a written agreement for the repayment of the amount of the claim at the discretion of NCUA;
(f) That charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be assessed against the debtor, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717, if payment is not received by the payment due date, unless excused by the FCCS;
(g) That if the debtor has not entered into an agreement with NCUA to pay the debt, has not requested NCUA to review the debt, or has not paid the debt by the payment due date, NCUA intends to collect the debt by all legally available means;
(h) The name and address of the Executive Director whom the debtor shall
send all correspondence relating to the debt; and
(i) Other information, as may be appropriate.
§ 797.8
Right to agency review.
(a) If the debtor disputes the claim, the debtor may request a review of NCUA's determination of the existence of the debt or of the amount of the debt. If only part of the claim is disputed, the undisputed portion should be paid by the payment due date.
(b) To obtain a review, the debtor shall submit a written request for review to the Executive Director within 15 calendar days after receipt of the Notice. The debtor's request for review shall state the basis on which the claim is disputed.
(c) The NCUA shall promptly notify the debtor, in writing, that the NCUA has received the request for review. The NCUA shall conduct its review of the claim in accordance with § 797.9.
§ 797.9
Review procedures.
(a) Unless an oral hearing is required by § 797.7(d), NCUA's review shall be a review of the written record of the claim.
(b) If an oral hearing is required, NCUA shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for such a hearing. The oral hearing, however, shall not be an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of a formal evidentiary hearing. All significant matters discussed at the hearing, however, will be carefully documented.
(c) Any review required by this part, whether a review of the written record or an oral hearing, shall be conducted by a hearing official. When NCUA is the creditor agency and the debtor is an NCUA employee, NCUA shall contact any agency designated in appendix A to 5 CFR part 581 to arrange for a hearing official. When NCUA is the creditor agency and the debtor is not an NCUA employee (i.e., the debtor is employed by another federal agency, also known as the paying agency), and NCUA cannot provide a prompt and appropriate hearing, NCUA may contact an agent of the paying agency designated in appendix A to 5 CFR part 581 to arrange for a hearing official. The paying agency must cooperate with NCUA to provide a hearing official, as required by the FCCS.
(d) The hearing official shall issue a final written decision based on documentary evidence and, if applicable, information developed at an oral hearing. The written decision shall be issued as soon as practicable after the review but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for review was received by NCUA, unless the debtor requests a delay in the proceedings. A delay in the proceedings shall be granted if the hearing official determines that there is good cause to grant the delay. If a delay is granted, the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the review was postponed.
(e) Upon issuance of the written opinion, NCUA shall promptly notify the debtor of the hearing official's decision. The notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official.
§ 797.10
Special review.
(a) An employee subject to offset, or a voluntary repayment agreement, may, at any time, request a special review by the Executive Director of the amount of the offset or voluntary repayment, based on materially changed circumstances, including, but not limited to, catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability.
(b) To determine whether an offset would prevent the employee from meeting essential subsistence expenses, the employee shall submit a detailed statement and supporting documents for the employee, the employee's spouse, and dependents indicating the employee's assets and liabilities.
(c) If the employee requests a special review under this section, the employee shall file an alternative proposed offset or payment schedule and a statement.
(d) The Executive Director shall evaluate the statement and supporting documents, and determine whether the original offset or repayment schedule imposes an undue financial hardship on the employee. The Executive Director shall notify the employee in writing within 30 calendar days of such determination, including, if appropriate, a revised offset or payment schedule. If
the special review results in a revised offset or repayment schedule, NCUA shall provide a new certification to the paying agency.
§ 797.11
Interest, administrative costs, and penalties.
Where NCUA is the creditor agency, it shall assess interest, penalties and administrative costs pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR parts 900 through 904, unless excused in accordance with the FCCS.
§ 797.12
Refunds.
NCUA shall refund promptly those amounts recovered by offset but later found not to be owed to the federal government.
§ 797.13
Requests for administrative offset where NCUA is the creditor agency.
(a) NCUA may request that a debt owed to NCUA be collected by administrative offset against funds due and payable to a debtor by another agency.
(b) In requesting administrative offset, NCUA, as creditor, shall certify in writing to the agency holding funds of the debtor:
(1) That the debtor owes the debt;
(2) The amount and basis of the debt; and
(3) That NCUA has complied with the requirements of its own administrative offset regulations and the applicable provisions of the FCCS with respect to providing the debtor with due process.
§ 797.14
Requests for administrative offset from other federal agencies where NCUA is the paying agency.
(a) Any agency may request that funds due and payable to a debtor by NCUA be administratively offset in order to collect a debt owed to such agency by the debtor.
(b) NCUA shall initiate the requested administrative offset only upon receipt of a written certification from the creditor agency that:
(1) The debtor owes the debt, including the amount and basis of the debt;
(2) The agency has prescribed regulations for the exercise of administrative offset; and
(3) The agency has complied with its own administrative offset regulations and with the applicable provisions of the FCCS, with respect to providing the debtor with due process.
§ 797.15
Administrative offset against amounts payable from Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
NCUA may request that monies payable to a debtor from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund be administratively offset to collect debts owed to NCUA by the debtor. NCUA shall provide OPM with a written certification that states the debtor owes the debt, the amount of the debt, and that NCUA has complied with the agency's offset regulations, as well as, the requirements set forth in 31 CFR parts 900 through 904 and OPM's regulations.
§ 797.16
Stay of offset.
(a) When a creditor agency receives a debtor's request for inspection of agency records, the offset is stayed for 15 calendar days beyond the date set for the record inspection.
(b) When a creditor agency receives a debtor's offer to enter into a repayment agreement, the offset is stayed until the debtor is notified as to whether the proposed agreement is acceptable.
(c) When a review is conducted, the offset is stayed until the creditor agency issues a final written decision. The written decision must be issued within 60 days after receipt of the debtor's request for review.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
§ 797.17
Authority and scope.
(a) NCUA may collect debts owed by employees to the federal government by means of salary offset under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514, 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and this subpart. The procedures set forth in this subpart apply to situations where NCUA is attempting to collect a debt by salary offset that is owed to it by an individual employed by NCUA or by another agency; or where NCUA employs an individual who owes a debt to another agency. Since salary offset is a type of administrative offset, this subpart supplements subpart B.
(b) The procedures set forth in this subpart do not apply to:
(1) Any routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is attributable to clerical or administrative error or delay in processing pay documents that have occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment, or any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less. However, at the time of any such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as possible, NCUA or its designated payroll agent shall provide the employee with a written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.
(2) Any negative adjustment to pay that arises from an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a federal benefits program that requires periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less. However, at the time that such adjustment is made, NCUA shall provide the employee a statement that informs the employee of the previous overpayment.
§ 797.18
Notice requirements where NCUA is the creditor agency.
Where NCUA seeks salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514 as the creditor agency, NCUA shall first provide the employee with a written Notice of Intent to Collect by Salary Offset (the Notice) at least 30 calendar days before salary offset is to commence. The Notice shall provide the following information:
(a) That the Executive Director has determined that a debt is owed to NCUA and intends to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account until the debt and all accumulated interest is paid in full or otherwise resolved;
(b) The amount of the debt and the factual basis for the debt;
(c) A salary offset schedule stating the frequency and amount of each deduction, stated as a fixed dollar amount or percentage of disposable pay not to exceed 15 percent;
(d) That in lieu of salary offset, the employee may propose a voluntary repayment plan to satisfy the debt on terms acceptable to NCUA, which must be documented in writing, signed by the employee and the Executive Director, and documented in NCUA's files;
(e) NCUA's policy concerning interest, penalties, and administrative costs, and a statement that such assessments must be made, unless excused in accordance with the FCCS;
(f) That the employee has the right to inspect and copy NCUA records related to the debt, or to receive copies of such records if personal inspection is impractical;
(g) That the employee has a right to request a hearing regarding the existence and amount of the debt claimed or the salary offset schedule proposed by NCUA, provided that the employee files a request for such a hearing with NCUA in accordance with § 797.20, and that such a hearing will be conducted by a hearing official not under the supervision or control of NCUA;
(h) The procedure and deadline for requesting a hearing, including the name, address, and telephone number of the Executive Director or other designated individual to whom a request for a hearing must be sent;
(i) That a request for hearing must be received by NCUA on or before the 30th calendar day following receipt of the Notice, and that filing of a request for hearing will stay the collection proceedings;
(j) That NCUA will initiate salary offset procedures not less than 30 days from the date of the employee's receipt of the Notice, unless the employee files a timely request for a hearing;
(k) That if a hearing is held, the hearing official will issue a decision at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the request for the hearing, unless the employee requests a delay in the proceedings which is granted by the hearing official;
(l) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to disciplinary procedures appropriate under 5 U.S.C. chapter 75, 5 CFR part 752; penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729 through 3731; criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, 1002; or any other applicable statutory authority; and
(m) That the employee also has the right to request waiver of overpayment pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5584, and may exercise any other rights and remedies available under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made.
§ 797.19
Review of NCUA records related to the debt.
(a) An employee who desires to inspect or copy NCUA records related to the employee's debt must send a written request to the Executive Director or the individual designated in the Notice. The letter must be received in the office of that individual within 15 calendar days after the employee's receipt of the Notice.
(b) In response to a timely request submitted by the employee, the employee shall be notified of the location and time when the employee may inspect and copy records related to the debt. If the employee is unable personally to inspect such records, NCUA shall arrange to send copies of such records to the employee.
§ 797.20
Procedures to request a hearing.
(a) To request a hearing, an employee must send a written request to the Executive Director within 15 calendar days after the employee's receipt of the Notice. If the employee files a request for a hearing after the expiration of the 15th calendar day, NCUA may accept the request if the employee can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond the employee's control or the employee failed to receive actual notice of the filing deadline.
(b) The request for a hearing must be signed by the employee and must fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses, if any, that support the employee's position. The request must also state whether the employee is requesting an oral or documentary hearing. If an oral hearing is requested, the request shall state why the matter cannot be resolved by a review of documentary evidence alone.
(c) The failure of an employee to request a hearing will be considered an admission by the employee that the debt exists in the amount specified in the Notice.
§ 797.21
Hearing procedures.
(a)
Obtaining the services of a hearing official.
When the debtor is not an NCUA employee and NCUA cannot provide a prompt and appropriate hearing before a hearing official, NCUA may request a hearing official from an agent of the paying agency, as designated in 5 CFR part 581, appendix A, or as otherwise designated by the paying agency. When the debtor is an NCUA employee, NCUA may contact any agent of another agency, as designated in 5 CFR part 581, appendix A.
(b)
Notice of hearing.
After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. If the hearing will be oral, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing, which must occur no more than 30 calendar days after the request is received, unless the employee requests that the hearing be delayed. If the hearing will be conducted by an examination of documents, the employee, within 30 calendar days, shall submit any evidence or written arguments that should be considered by the hearing official.
(c)
Oral hearing.
(1) An employee who requests an oral hearing shall be provided an oral hearing if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by an examination of the documents alone, as for example, when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved. The oral hearing need not be an adversarial adjudication and rules of evidence need not apply.
(2) Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to:
(i) Informal conferences with the hearing official in which the employee and agency representative are given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;
(ii) Informal meetings in which the hearing examiner interviews the employee; or
(iii) Formal written submissions followed by an opportunity for oral presentation.
(d)
Hearing by examination of documents.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, the hearing official shall make the determination based upon an examination of the documents.
(e)
Record.
The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing conducted under this section.
(f)
Decision.
(1) The hearing official shall issue a written decision based upon evidence and information developed at the hearing or in the case of a documentary hearing the decision shall be based on the documents and written submissions. The decision shall be issued, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 calendar days after the hearing request was received by NCUA. If the hearing was delayed at the request of the employee, the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed.
(2) The decision of the hearing official shall be final and is considered to be an official certification regarding the existence and the amount of the debt for purposes of executing salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514. If the hearing official determines that a debt may not be collected by salary offset, but NCUA finds that the debt is still valid, NCUA may seek collection of the debt through other means in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
(g)
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(1) A summary of the facts concerning the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(2) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and
(3) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable.
(h)
Failure to appear.
If the employee or the NCUA representative fails to appear, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled, and issue the decision based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentation submitted by both parties. At the request of both parties, the hearing official may re-schedule the hearing date.
§ 797.22
Voluntary repayment agreement.
(a) In response to the Notice, an employee may propose to repay the debt voluntarily in lieu of salary offset by submitting a written proposed repayment schedule to NCUA. Any proposal under this section must be received by NCUA within 15 calendar days after receipt of the Notice.
(b) In response to a timely proposal by the employee, NCUA shall notify the employee whether the employee's proposed repayment schedule is acceptable. NCUA has the discretion to accept, reject, or propose to the employee a modification of the proposed repayment schedule.
(1) If NCUA decides that the proposed repayment schedule is unacceptable, the employee shall have 15 calendar days from the date of the decision in which to file a request for a hearing.
(2) If NCUA decides that the proposed repayment schedule is acceptable or the employee agrees to a modification proposed by NCUA, an agreement shall be put in writing and signed by both the employee and NCUA.
§ 797.23
Certification where NCUA is the creditor agency.
(a) NCUA shall issue a certification in all cases where the hearing official determines that a debt exists or the employee admits the existence and amount of the debt, as for example, by failing to request a hearing.
(b) The certification must be in writing and state:
(1) That the employee owes the debt;
(2) The amount and basis of the debt;
(3) The date the federal government's right to collect the debt first accrued;
(4) The date the employee was notified of the debt, the action(s) taken pursuant to NCUA's regulations, and the dates such actions were taken;
(5) If the collection is to be made by lump-sum payment, the amount and date such payment will be collected;
(6) If the collection is to be made in installments, the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment and, if NCUA wishes, the desired commencing date of the first installment, if a date other than the next officially established pay period; and
(7) A statement that NCUA's regulation on salary offset has been approved by OPM pursuant to 5 CFR part 550, subpart K.
§ 797.24
Certification where NCUA is the paying agency.
(a) Upon issuance of a proper certification by NCUA or upon receipt of a proper certification from another creditor agency, NCUA shall send the employee a written notice of salary offset.
(b) Such written notice of salary offset shall advise the employee of the:
(1) Certification that has been issued by NCUA or received from another creditor agency;
(2) Amount of the debt and of the deductions to be made; and
(3) Date and pay period when the salary offset will begin.
(c) If NCUA is not the creditor agency, NCUA shall provide a copy of the notice to the creditor agency and advise the creditor agency of the dollar amount to be offset and the pay period when the offset will begin.
§ 797.25
Recovery from final check or other payments due a separated employee.
(a)
Lump-sum deduction from final check.
In order liquidate a debt, a lump-sum deduction exceeding 15 percent of disposable pay may be made pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716 from any final salary payment due a former employee, whether the former employee was separated voluntarily or involuntarily.
(b)
Lump-sum deductions from other sources.
Whenever an employee subject to salary offset is separated from NCUA, and the balance of the debt cannot be liquidated by offset of the final salary payment, NCUA may offset any later payments of any kind to the former employee to collect the balance of the debt pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716.
PARTS 798-799 [RESERVED]
12 CFR Ch. VIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Federal Financing Bank

# CHAPTER VIII—FEDERAL FINANCING BANK
Part
Page
800-809
[Reserved]
810
Federal financing bank bills
1155
811
Book-entry procedure for Federal financing bank securities
1156
812-899
[Reserved]
PARTS 800-809 [RESERVED]
Pt. 810

# PART 810—FEDERAL FINANCING BANK BILLS
Sec.
810.0
Authority for issue and sale.
810.1
Description of Federal Financing Bank bills.
810.2
Public notice of offering.
810.3
Payment at maturity.
810.4
Acceptance of FFB bills for various purposes.
810.5
Taxation.
810.6
Exemption.
810.7
Federal Reserve Banks as fiscal agents.
810.8
Reservations as to terms of circular.

# Authority:
Secs. 9-11, 87 Stat. 939, 940; (12 U.S.C. 2288, 2289, 2290).

# Source:
39 FR 26397, July 19, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 810.0
Authority for issue and sale.
The Federal Financing Bank is authorized under the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, to issue publicly, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, obligations having such maturities and bearing such rate or rates of interest as may be determined by the Bank. Pursuant to this authority, Federal Financing Bank bills, referred to herein as “FFB bills,” are offered for sale from time to time and tenders invited therefor, through the Federal Reserve Banks. The FFB bills so offered, the tenders made, and all subsequent transactions therein are subject to the terms and conditions of the public notice offering the bills for sale, this circular, and to the extent not inconsistent with such notice and circular, to Department of the Treasury Circular No. 418, current revision, the regulations governing United States Treasury bills, and all other regulations governing United States securities.
§ 810.1
Description of Federal Financing Bank bills.
(a)
General.
Federal Financing Bank bills are bearer obligations of the Federal Financing Bank, the terms of which provide for payment of a specified amount on a specified date. They are issued only by Federal Reserve Banks and Branches, pursuant to tenders accepted by the Federal Financing Bank, and are available in both definitive and book-entry form. Where issued as a definitive security, it shall not be valid unless the issue date, the maturity date and the CUSIP number are imprinted thereon.
(b)
Denominations.
Federal Financing Bank bills will be issued in denominations of $10,000, $15,000, $50,000, $100,000, $500,000 and $1,000,000 (maturity value).
§ 810.2
Public notice of offering.
On the occasion of an offering of FFB bills, tenders therefor will be invited through public notices issued by the Federal Financing Bank. Each notice will set forth the amount offered, the issue date, the date they will be due and payable, the place and the date of the closing hour for the receipt of tenders and the date on which payment for accepted tenders must be made or completed.
§ 810.3
Payment at maturity.
Each FFB bill will be paid in its face amount at maturity upon presentation and surrender to any Federal Reserve Bank or Branch or to the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Public Debt, Securities Transaction Branch, Washington, DC 20226. If a FFB bill is presented and surrendered for redemption after it has become overdue, the Federal Financing Bank may require satisfactory proof of ownership, as provided in § 306.25 of Department of the Treasury Circular No. 300, current revision.
§ 810.4
Acceptance of FFB bills for various purposes.
Federal Financing Bank bills are lawful investments and may be accepted as security for all fiduciary, trust, and public funds, the investment or deposit of which shall be under the authority or control of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or any territory or possession of the United States. They are eligible for purchase by national banks, and will be accepted at maturity value to secure public moneys.
§ 810.5
Taxation.
All FFB bills shall be subject to Federal taxation to the same extent as obligations of private corporations are taxed.
§ 810.6
Exemption.
Obligations of the Federal Financing Bank are deemed to be exempted securities within the meaning of section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(2), of section 3(a)(12) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78(a)(12)), and of section 304(a)(4) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77ddd(a)(4)).
§ 810.7
Federal Reserve Banks as fiscal agents.
The Federal Reserve Banks, as fiscal agents of the United States, have been authorized by the Department of the Treasury to perform all such acts as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this and other circulars of the Department of the Treasury as may be applicable to FFB bills, and of any public notice or notices issued in connection with any offering of these securities.
§ 810.8
Reservations as to terms of circular.
The Federal Financing Bank reserves the right to amend, supplement, revise or withdraw all or any of the provisions of this circular at any time or from time to time.
Pt. 811

# PART 811—BOOK-ENTRY PROCEDURE FOR FEDERAL FINANCING BANK SECURITIES
Sec.
811.0
Definition of terms.
811.1
Authority of Reserve Banks.
811.2
Scope and effect of book-entry procedure.
811.3
Transfer or pledge.
811.4
Withdrawal of Federal Financing Bank securities.
811.5
Delivery of Federal Financing Bank securities.
811.6
Registered bonds and notes.
811.7
Servicing book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities; payment of interest; payment at maturity or upon call.

# Authority:
The Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, sections 9-11, 87 Stat. 939, 940; 12 U.S.C. 2288, 2289, 2290.

# Source:
40 FR 5532, Feb. 6, 1975, unless otherwise noted.
§ 811.0
Definition of terms.
In this part, unless the context otherwise requires or indicates:
(a)
Reserve Bank
means the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (and any other Federal Reserve Bank which agrees to issue Federal Financing Bank securities in book-entry form) as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of the Federal Financing Bank and, when indicated, acting in its individual capacity.
(b)
Federal Financing Bank security
means a Federal Financing Bank bond, note, certificate of indebtedness, or bill issued under the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, in the form of a definitive Federal Financing Bank security or a book-entry Federal Financing Bank security.
(c)
Definitive Federal Financing Bank security
means a Federal Financing Bank bond, note, certificate of indebtedness, or bill issued under the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, in engraved or printed form.
(d)
Book-entry Federal Financing Bank security
means a Federal Financing Bank bond, note, certificate of indebtedness, or bill issued under the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, in the form of an entry made as prescribed in this part on the records of a Reserve Bank.
(e)
Pledge
includes a pledge of, or any other security interest in, Federal Financing Bank securities as collateral for loans or advances or to secure deposits of public monies or the performance of an obligation.
(f)
Date of call
is the date fixed in the official notice of call published in the
Federal Register
on which the Federal Financing Bank will make payment of the security before maturity in accordance with its terms.
(g)
Member bank
means any national bank, State bank or bank or trust company which is a member of a Reserve Bank.
§ 811.1
Authority of Reserve Banks.
Each Reserve Bank is hereby authorized, in accordance with the provisions of this part, to: (a) Issue book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities by
means of entries on its records which shall include the name of the depositor, the amount, the loan title (or series) and maturity date; (b) effect conversions between book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities and definitive Federal Financing Bank securities; (c) otherwise service and maintain book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities; and (d) issue a confirmation of transaction in the form of a written advice (serially numbered or otherwise) which specifies the amount and description of any securities, that is, loan title (or series) and maturity date, sold or transferred and the date of the transaction.
§ 811.2
Scope and effect of book-entry procedure.
(a) A Reserve Bank, as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of the Federal Financing Bank, may apply the book-entry procedure provided for in this part to any Federal Financing Bank securities which have been or are hereafter deposited for any purpose in accounts with it in its individual capacity under terms and conditions which indicate that the Reserve Bank will continue to maintain such deposit accounts in its individual capacity, notwithstanding application of the book-entry procedure to such securities. This paragraph is applicable, but not limited, to securities deposited:
(1) As collateral pledged to a Reserve Bank (in its individual capacity) for advances by it;
(2) By a member bank for its sole account;
(3) By a member bank held for the account of its customers;
(4) In connection with deposits in a member bank of funds of States, municipalities, or other political subdivisions; or,
(5) In connection with the performance of an obligation or duty under Federal, State, municipal, or local law, or judgments or decrees of courts.
The application of the book-entry procedure under this paragraph shall not derogate from or adversely affect the relationship that would otherwise exist between a Reserve Bank in its individual capacity and its depositors covering any deposits under this paragraph. Whenever the book-entry procedure is applied to such Federal Financing Bank securities, the Reserve Bank is authorized to take all action necessary in respect of the book-entry procedure to enable such Reserve Bank in its individual capacity to perform its obligations as depositary with respect to such Federal Financing Bank securities.
(b) A Reserve Bank, as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of the Federal Financing Bank, shall apply the book-entry procedure to Federal Financing Bank securities deposited as collateral pledged to the United States under current revisions of Department of the Treasury Circulars Nos. 92 and 176 (31 CFR, parts 203 and 202), and may apply the book-entry procedure, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, to any other Federal Financing Bank securities deposited with a Reserve Bank, as fiscal agent of the United States.
(c) Any person having an interest in Federal Financing Bank securities which are deposited with a Reserve Bank (in either its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States) for any purpose shall be deemed to have consented to their conversion to book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities pursuant to the provisions of this part, and in the manner and under the procedures prescribed by the Reserve Bank.
(d) No deposits shall be accepted under this section on or after the date of maturity or call of the securities.
§ 811.3
Transfer or pledge.
(a) A transfer or a pledge of book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities to a Reserve Bank (in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States), or to the United States, or to any transferee or pledgee eligible to maintain an appropriate book-entry account in its name with a Reserve Bank under this part, is effected and perfected, notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, by a Reserve Bank making an appropriate entry in its records of the securities transferred or pledged. The making of such an entry in the records of a Reserve Bank shall:
(1) Have the effect of a delivery in bearer form of definitive Federal Financing Bank securities; (2) have the effect of a taking of delivery by the transferee or pledgee; (3) constitute the transferee or pledgee a holder; and (4) if a pledge, effect a perfected security interest therein in favor of the pledgee. A transfer or pledge of book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities effected under this paragraph shall have priority over any transfer, pledge, or other interest, theretofore or thereafter effected or perfected under paragraph (b) of this section or in any other manner.
(b) A transfer or a pledge of transferable Federal Financing Bank securities, or any interest therein, which is maintained by a Reserve Bank (in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States) in a book-entry account under this part, including securities in book-entry form under § 811.2(a)(3), is effected, and a pledge is perfected, by any means that would be effective under applicable law to effect a transfer or to effect and perfect a pledge of the Federal Financing Bank securities, or any interest therein, if the securities were maintained by the Reserve Bank in bearer definitive form. For purposes of transfer or pledge hereunder, book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities maintained by a Reserve Bank shall, notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, be deemed to be maintained in bearer definitive form. A Reserve Bank maintaining book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities either in its individual capacity or as fiscal agent of the United States is not a bailee for purposes of notification of pledges of those securities under this subsection, or a third person in possession for purposes of acknowledgement of transfers thereof under this subsection. Where transferable Federal Financing Bank securities are recorded on the books of a depositary (a bank, banking institution, financial firm, or a similar party, which regularly accepts in the course of its business Federal Financing Bank securities as a custodial service for customers, and maintains accounts in the names of such customers reflecting ownership of or interest in such securities) for account of the pledgor or transferor thereof and such securities are on deposit with a Reserve Bank in a book-entry account hereunder, such depositary shall, for purposes of perfecting a pledge of such securities or effecting delivery of such securities to a purchaser under applicable provisions of law, be the bailee to which notification of the pledge of the securities may be given or the third person in possession from which acknowledgment of the holding of the securities for the purchaser may be obtained. A Reserve Bank will not accept notice or advice of a transfer or pledge effected or perfected under this subsection, and any such notice or advice shall have no effect. A Reserve Bank may continue to deal with its depositor in accordance with the provisions of this part, notwithstanding any transfer or pledge effected or perfected under this subsection.
(c) No filing or recording with a public recording office or officer shall be necessary or effective with respect to any transfer or pledge of book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities or any interest therein.
(d) A Reserve Bank shall, upon receipt of appropriate instructions, convert book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities into definitive Federal Financing Bank securities and deliver them in accordance with such instructions; no such conversion shall affect existing interests in such Federal Financing Bank securities.
(e) A transfer of book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities within a Reserve Bank shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the Bank not inconsistent with this part. The transfer of book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities by a Reserve Bank may be made through a telegraphic transfer procedure.
(f) All requests for transfer or withdrawal must be made prior to the maturity or date of call of the securities.
§ 811.4
Withdrawal of Federal Financing Bank securities.
(a) A depositor of book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities may withdraw them from a Reserve Bank by requesting delivery of like definitive Federal Financing Bank securities to itself or on its order to a transferee.
(b) Federal Financing Bank securities which are actually to be delivered upon withdrawal may be issued either in registered or in bearer form, except that Federal Financing Bank bills will be issued in bearer form only.
§ 811.5
Delivery of Federal Financing Bank securities.
A Reserve Bank which has received Federal Financing Bank securities and effected pledges, made entries regarding them, or transferred or delivered them according to the instructions of its depositor is not liable for conversion or for participation in breach of fiduciary duty even though the depositor had no right to dispose of or take other action in respect of the securities. A Reserve Bank shall be fully discharged of its obligations under this part by the delivery of Federal Financing Bank securities in definitive form to its depositor or upon the order of such depositor. Customers of a member bank or other depository (other than a Reserve Bank) may obtain Federal Financing Bank securities in definitive form only by causing the depositor of the Reserve Bank to order the withdrawal thereof from the Reserve Bank.
§ 811.6
Registered bonds and notes.
Registered Federal Financing Bank securities deposited with a Reserve Bank for any purpose specified in § 811.2 shall be assigned for conversion to book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities. The assignment, which shall be executed in accordance with the provisions of subpart F of 31 CFR, part 306, so far as applicable, shall be to—
Federal Reserve Bank of ____________, as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of the Federal Financing Bank for conversion to book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities.
§ 811.7
Servicing book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities; payment of interest; payment at maturity or upon call.
Interest becoming due on book-entry Federal Financing Bank securities shall be charged against the special agent account maintained by the Department of the Treasury for the Federal Financing Bank on the interest due date and remitted or credited in accordance with the depositor's instructions. Such securities shall be redeemed and charged against the above said account on the date of maturity or call, and the redemption proceeds, principal and interest, shall be disposed of in accordance with the depositor's instructions.
PARTS 812-899 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
12 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
12 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter VI
Chapter VI Policy statement
10035
600.4 Revised
6421
600.4 Regulation at 85 FR 6421 eff. date confirmed; eff. 4-1-20
20586
604.425 (a) revised
6422
604.425 Regulation at 85 FR 6422 eff. date confirmed; eff. 4-1-20
20586
604.440 Revised
6422
604.440 Regulation at 85 FR 6422 eff. date confirmed; eff. 4-1-20
20586
611 Authority citation revised
52253
611.1205 Amended
52253
611.1205 Regulation at 85 FR 52253 eff. date confirmed
73401
614 Authority citation revised
60693
614 Technical correction
77364
614.4040 (a) revised
60693
614.4040 Regulation at 85 FR 60693 eff. date 11-19-20
82881
614.4050 Introductory text, (b) removed; (a) revised; (c) and (d) redesignated as new (b) and (c); new (c)(1)(i) introductory text, new (ii) introductory text, new (2)(i), and new (3) amended
60693
614.4050 Regulation at 85 FR 60693 eff. date 11-19-20
82881
614.4200 (c) added
60694
614.4200 Regulation at 85 FR 60694 eff. date 11-19-20
82881
615 Authority citation revised
52253
615.5131 Amended
52253
615.5131 Regulation at 85 FR 52253 eff. date confirmed
73401
615.5140 (b)(2) and (3) revised
62949
615.5140 Correction: (b)(2) and (3) introductory text revised
70955
615.5140 Regulation at 85 FR 62949 and 85 FR 62949 confirmed
83749
620.2 (g) revised
63430
621 Authority citation revised
52253
621.2 (a) through (n) designations removed; section amended
52253
621.2 Regulation at 85 FR 52253 eff. date confirmed
73401
621.6 Revised
52253
621.6 Regulation at 85 FR 52253 eff. date confirmed
73401
621.9 Revised
52254
621.9 Regulation at 85 FR 52254 eff. date confirmed
73401
622.61 Revised
6024
624 Technical correction
54233, 61811
624.1 (e)(6) and (7) revised; interim
39469
624.1 (e)(6), (7), and (h) introductory text revised; (h)(1), and (3) through (5) added
39776
624.9 (h) added
39777
624.10 (a) revised
39777
624.11 Revised
39777
Chapter VII
700.2 Amended
62210
701 Technical correction
57666
701.6 (a) and (b) revised; eff. 2-1-21
86803
701.22 (e) added (temporary)
22014
701.22 Regulation at 85 FR 22014 effective date extended to 12-31-21
83405
701.22 (e) amended
62210, 83409
701.23 (i) added (temporary)
22014
701.23 Regulation at 85 FR 22014 eff. date extended to 12-31-21
83405
701.23 (i) introductory text amended
83409
701.34 (a)(6) revised
62210
701.36 (c)(3) added (temporary)
22014
701.36 Regulation at 85 FR 22014 eff. date extended to 12-31-21
83405
701.36 (c)(3) amended
83409
701 Appendix B amended
56513, 62210
702.1 Correction: (a) amended; eff. 1-1-22
62210
702.2 (k)(3) added; interim
23216
702.104 (d) revised; interim
23216
702.201 (b)(1) and (2) redesignated as (b)(1)(i) and (ii); new (b)(2) added; interim
31956
702.206 (c)(4) added; interim
31957
702.305 Correction: (b)(4) amended; eff. 1-1-22
62210
702.306 (a)(1)(i) amended
62210
702.504 Correction: amended; eff. 1-1-22
62210
703.14 (k) revised
62211
703.112 (a) amended
62211
704.1 (a) amended
62211
704.2 Amended
71825
704.4 (e)(5) amended
62211
704.5 (e)(4) amended
62211
704.5 (c)(3) and (h)(6) revised
71826
704.6 (f)(2) revised
62211
704.6 (c)(2)(vi) amended
71826
704.7 Amended
71826
704.8 (j)(1) and (k) revised
62211
704.8 (e) amended
71826
704.11 (b)(2), (3), and (e)(2) amended; (g)(7) revised
62211
704.11 Revised
71826
704.14 (a)(4) and (8) revised
62211
704.14 (a)(2) revised
71827
704.19 (a) introductory text revised
62211
704.19 (a) amended
71827
704.21 (c) revised; (d) and (e) removed
71827
704.22 (b) revised
62211
704 Appendix A amended
62211
704 Appendix B and Appendix C amended
62212
705.2 Amended
62212
705.7 (b)(3) amended
62212
707 Appendix B and Appendix C amended
62212
708a.304 (a)(13) amended
62213
708b Nomenclature change
62213
708b.1 (a), (b), and (d) amended
62213
708b.205 (c) amended
62213
709.8 (f) amended
62213
709.9 (b)(5)(ii)(B) amended
62213
717.82 (a) amended
62213
722.3 (g) added; interim; eff. until 12-31-20
22017
722.3 (b)(2) and (c)(1) revised; (f) removed
23917
722.3 Regulation at 85 FR 22017 confirmed
64949
722.4 (c) through (e) redesignated as (d) through (f); new (c) added; new (e) amended
23917
723.2 Amended; interim
23216
725.2 (i) introductory text revised; interim
23735
725.3 (b) removed; interim
23735
725.4 (a)(2) revised; interim
23735
725.4 (b)(4) and (e) amended
62213
725.6 (a) and (b) stayed; (e) added; interim; eff. until 1-1-22
23735
725.17 (b)(2) revised; interim
23735
725.18 (a) and (d) revised; interim
23736
725.18 (c) amended
62213
725.19 (a) and (b) revised; interim
23736
740 Nomenclature change
62213
740.5 (c)(6) revised
62213
741.4 (i)(2) and (j)(1) amended
62213
741.204 (c) amended
62213
747.0 Amended
62213
747.29 (a)(2) amended
62213
747.207 Amended
62213
747.306 (b) amended
62213
747.402 (b) amended
62214
747.1001 Revised
2011
748 Appendix B amended
62214
750.5 (a)(3) amended
62214
750.6 (a) amended
62214
2021
12 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter VI
611.1153 (c)(3) amended; eff. 1-1-23
58559
612 Authority citation revised
50975
612 Regulation at 86 FR 50975 eff. 1-1-23
58559
612.2130—612.2270 (Subpart A) Revised
50975
612.2130—612.2270 (Subpart A) Regulation at 86 FR 50975 eff. 1-1-23
58559
614 Authority citation revised
54356
614.4351 (a) revised
54356
614.4351 Regulation at 86 FR 54356 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
615 Authority citation revised
54356
615.5200 Revised
54356
615.5200 Regulation at 86 FR 54356 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
615.5201 Amended
54356
615.5201 Regulation at 86 FR 54356 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
615.5220 (a)(6) revised
54357
615.5220 Regulation at 86 FR 54357 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
620 Notification
223
620.3 (a) and (c)(3) amended
54357
620.3 Regulation at 86 FR 54357 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
620.5 (f)(3)(v) added; (f)(4) revised
54357
620.5 Regulation at 86 FR 54357 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
621.30 Amended; eff. 1-1-23
58559
622.61 Revised
7236
627.2725 Removed
15083
627.2725 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2726 Removed
15083
627.2726 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2730 Removed
15083
627.2730 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2740 Removed
15083
627.2740 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2745 Removed
15083
627.2745 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2750 Removed
15083
627.2750 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2752 Removed
15083
627.2752 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2755 Removed
15083
627.2755 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2760 Removed
15083
627.2760 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
627.2780 Removed
15083
627.2780 Regulation at 68 FR 15083 eff. date confirmed
27509
628 Authority citation revised
54357
628.2 Amended
54357
628.2 Regulation at 86 FR 54357 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
628.10 (c)(4) revised
54358
628.10 Regulation at 86 FR 54358 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
628.20 (b)(1)(i), (ii), (x), (xiv), (c)(1)(xiv), (d)(1)(i), (viii)(C), (d)(1)(xi), and (f)(5)(ii) revised
54359
628.20 Regulation at 86 FR 54359 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
628.21 Added
54359
628.21 Regulation at 86 FR 54359 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
628.22 (a)(6) revised; (b) added
54360
628.22 Regulation at 86 FR 54360 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
628.32 (l)(1) revised
54360
628.32 Regulation at 86 FR 54360 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
628.43 (d)(1) and (2) revised
54360
628.43 Regulation at 86 FR 54360 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
628.52 (c)(2)(ii) revised
54360
628.52 Regulation at 86 FR 54360 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
628.63 (b)(3) removed; (b)(4) revised
54360
628.63 Regulation at 86 FR 54360 eff. date 1-1-22
68395
655.10 (c) introductory text revised
27798
655.10 Regulation at 86 FR 27798 eff. date confirmed
37671
655.15 (a) revised
27798
655.15 Regulation at 86 FR 27798 eff. date confirmed
37671
655.21 (a) and (b) revised
27798
655.21 Regulation at 86 FR 27798 eff. date confirmed
37671
Chapter VII
700.2 Amended; interim
15400
700.2 Amended; eff. 4-1-22
59288
701.14 (b)(3)(i), (ii), (4)(i), and (ii) amended; eff. 4-1-22
59288
701.21 (i) removed
28247
701.22 Regulation at 85 FR 22014 further extended through 12-31-22
72517
701.22 (e) amended
72520
701.23 (b)(2) introductory text amended; eff. 4-1-22
59288
701.23 Regulation at 85 FR 22014 further extended through 12-31-22
72517
701.23 (i) introductory text and (2) amended; eff. in part 4-1-22
72520
701.25 Added
11072
701.34 Heading revised; (b) through (d) and appendix removed
11072
701.36 (c)(3) amended
72520
701.36 Regulation at 85 FR 22014 further extended through 12-31-22
72517
701.38 Revised
11072
701 Appendix B amended
66930
702.1 (c) amended; interim
15401
702.2 Introductory text and section amended
11073
702.2 Amended
72803, 72809
702.2 (a) revised; interim
15401
702.101 (a)(2) revised
72804
702.102 (a)(1)(i), (ii), and Table 1 revised
72804
702.103 Revised
72805
702.104 (b)(1)(vii) revised; (c)(2)(v)(B)(
9
) added
11073
702.104 Introductory text, (c)(2)(vii), (x), and (4) introductory text revised; (b)(2)(iii) and (iv) amended; (c)(4)(iii)(A) through (E) redesignated as (c)(4)(iii)(B) through (F); (b)(2)(v), (c)(2)(i)(B)(
3
), (D), new (c)(4)(iii)(A), (iv) through (x), (6), (d), and (e) added
72805
702.109 (a)(3) and (4) redesignated as (a)(4) and (5); new (a)(3) added; (b)(11) revised
11073
702.111 (c)(1)(i) amended
72806
702.201 (b)(2) introductory text revised
20264
702.205 (d) revised
11073
702.206 (d) removed; (e) through (h) redesignated as new (d) through (g)
11073
702.206 (c)(4) revised
20264
702.207 Redesignated as 702.208; new section added
11073
702.208 Redesignated as 702.209; redesignated from 702.207
11073
702.209 Redesignated as 702.210; redesignated from 702.208
11073
702.210 Redesignated as 702.211; redesignated from 702.209
11073
702.211 Redesignated from 702.210
11073
702.401—702.414 (Subpart D) Added
11074
702.401 Revised
72809
702.402 (d)(1) revised
34932
702.402 Amended
72809
702.414 Introductory text and (a)(2) revised
72809
702.502 Amended; interim
15401
702.701—702.703 (Subpart G) Added
34932
703 Authority citation revised; eff. 4-1-22
72818
703.2 Amended
28247
703.2 Amended
72806
703.2 Amended; eff. 4-1-22
72818
703.13 (d)(3)(iii) amended; eff. 4-1-22
59288
703.13 (d)(3)(iii) amended
72806
703.14 (k) revised; (l) added
28247
703.14 (i) and (j)(4) amended; eff. 4-1-22
59288
703.14 (m) added; eff. 4-1-22
72818
703.16 (a) removed; eff. 4-1-22
72818
703.101—703.109 (Subpart B) Revised
28247
704.2 Amended
10731
704.4 (d)(3)(ii) amended; eff. 4-1-22
59288
708a.101 Amended; interim
15401
708a.301 Amended; interim
15401
708b.2 Amended; interim
15401
709.5 (b)(8) revised
11085
712 Authority citation revised
59301
712.3 (d)(5)(i), (ii) introductory text, and (iii) revised
59301
712.5 (c), (d), (n), and (s) removed; (e) through (t) redesignated as (c) through (p); (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, new (c) introductory text, new (d) introductory text, new (e) introductory text, new (f) introductory text, new (g) introductory text, new (h) introductory text, new (i) introductory text, new (j), new (k), new (l), new (m) introductory text, and new (n) revised; new (q) and new (r) added; (a)(4), (b)(11), new (h)(3), new (m)(3), new (o), and new (p) amended
59301
713.6 (a)(1) table and (c) amended; eff. 4-1-22
59289
721.3 (h) amended; eff. 4-1-22
72818
725.2 (i) revised; interim
15571
725.4 (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) revised; interim
15571
725.6 (a) and (b) stayed; interim; eff. to 1-1-23
15571
725.6 (e) revised; interim
15571
725.17 (b)(2)(iv) revised; interim
15572
725.18 (a) and (d) revised; interim
15572
741.204 (c) revised; (d) removed
11085
741.204 (c) revised
72809
741.219 (b) revised
28250
741.226 Added
11085
741.227 Added
11085
741 Appendix B revised
34617
745.8 (c) revised
11102
746.201 (c) revised
28250
747.1001 Revised
936
790.2 (c)(2) amended; interim
15401
791 Authority citation revised
7957
791.19—791.21 (Subpart D) Added
7957
2022
12 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter VI
611 Authority citation revised
27492
611.515 (b)(6)(ii)(E) amended
27492
611.1122 (e)(6)(iii) and (10) amended
27492
611.1130 (b)(4)(i) amended
27492
611.1223 (c)(23)(ii) amended
27492
611.1250 (b)(5)(i)(B) amended
27492
611.1255 (b)(5)(i)(B) amended
27492
614 Guidance
32826
614 Technical correction
36214
615 Authority citation revised
27492
615.5050 (c)(1) and (2) through (4) amended
27492
615.5132 (a) amended
27492
615.5140 (b)(4)(ii) amended
27492
615.5200 (c)(4) amended
27492
615.5201 Amended
27492
615.5351 (d) amended
27492
620 Authority citation revised
27492
620.5 (f)(1)(i)(D), (ii)(B), (iii)(F), and (g)(1)(iv)(E) amended; (g)(1)(iv)(B) revised
27492
621 Authority citation revised
27492
621.5 Heading, (a), and (b) amended
27492
621.8 (c)(2) amended
27492
622.61 Revised
1332
628 Authority citation revised
27492
628.2 Amended
27493
628.20 (d)(3) amended
27493
628.22 (c) Footnote 6 amended
27493
628.63 (c) Table 5 amended
27493
630 Authority citation revised
27493
630.20 (f)(1)(ii), (2)(iii), and (3)(v) amended; (g)(1)(ii)(B) revised,
27493
630 Appendix A revised
27493
Chapter VII
700.2 Amended
45009
701.14 (c)(3)(i) revised
45009
702 Authority citation revised
45009
702.106 (b)(1) and (2) redesignated as (b)(1)(i) and (ii); new (b)(2) added; interim
10950
702.111 (c)(4) added; interim
10950
702.306 (d) revised
45009
708a.101 Amended
45009
708a.301 Amended
45010
708b.2 Amended
45010
747.1001 Revised
380
750.6 (a) amended
45010
760 Guidance
32826
760 Technical correction
36214
790.2 (c)(2) amended
45010
2023
12 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter VI
609 Revised; eff. 1-1-25
85832
614.4165 Revised; eff. 2-1-24
89285
619 Authority citation revised
82244
619.9140 Revised
82244
619.9146 Revised
82244
620.5 (k)(2) revised; eff. 2-1-24
89286
622.61 Revised
2198
627 Authority citation revised
82244
627 Heading revised
82244
627.1—627.4 (Subpart A) Revised
82244
627.10 (Subpart B) Revised
82244
627.20 (Subpart C) Revised
82244
627.40 Redesignated from 627.2795; (a) amended
82246
627.41 Redesignated from 627.2797; (a) amended
82246
627.2795 Redesignated as 627.40
82246
627.2797 Redesignated as 627.41
82246
Chapter VII
701.21 (c)(9) added
67599
701.22 Introductory text revised; (a) amended
67600
701.23 Introductory text, (a), (b) heading, (1)(iii) (b)(2) introductory text, (ii), (3)(ii), (4), (5), (c)(1), (2), (d)(1)(iii) revised; (b)(1) heading, (i) heading, (iii) heading, (iv) heading, (3) heading, (6), (c)(3), (g) heading, and (h)(1) heading added; (b)(1)(iv) amended
67600
701 Appendix A amended
48065
702 Authority citation revised
18010
702.401 (b) revised
18010
702.402 Amended
18010
702.404 Heading and (a)(2) revised
18011
702.408 (b)(14) and (15) redesignated as (b)(15) and (16); new (b)(14) added; (b)(7), (l) heading, and (1) revised
18011
702.409 (b)(2) revised
18011
702.414 (c) introductory text amended
18011
714.2 (b) revised
67601
714.9 Removed
67601
721.3 (b)(2)(vii)(B) revised
80952
741 Policy statement
25479
747.0 Revised; eff. 4-1-24
89962
747.1—747.41 (Subpart A) Revised; eff. 4-1-24
89962
747.1001 Revised
1326
748 Heading and authority citation revised
12816
748.1 (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added
12816
748 Appendix B amended
12817
2024
12 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter VI
614.4165 Regulation at 88 FR 89285 eff. date confirmed
13975
619.1940 Regulation at 88 FR 82244 eff. date confirmed
5760
619.1946 Regulation at 88 FR 82244 eff. date confirmed
5760
620.5 Regulation at 88 FR 89286 eff. date confirmed
13975
627 Regulation at 88 FR 82244 eff. date confirmed
5760
627.1—627.4 (Subpart A) Regulation at 88 FR 82244 eff. date confirmed
5760
627.10 (Subpart B) Regulation at 88 FR 82244 eff. date confirmed
5760
627.20 (Subpart C) Regulation at 88 FR 82244 eff. date confirmed
5760
627.40 Regulation at 88 FR 82246 eff. date confirmed
5760
627.41 Regulation at 88 FR 82246 eff. date confirmed
5760
627.2795 Regulation at 88 FR 82246 eff. date confirmed
5760
627.2797 Regulation at 88 FR 82246 eff. date confirmed
5760
628.2 Amended
25129
628.32 (j) added
25130
628.63 Table 3 amended
25130
628 Appendix A added
25130
Chapter VII
701.4 (b)(3) revised; (e) added; eff. 1-1-26
104876
701.14 (c)(1) and (3)(iii) revised; (e) amended
79392
701 Appendix A amended
79393
722 Policy statement
17710, 60549
722.1 Redesignated as 722.101
64575
722.2 Redesignated as 722.102
64575
722.3 Redesignated as 722.103
64575
722.4 Redesignated as 722.104
64575
722.5 Redesignated as 722.105
64575
722.6 Redesignated as 722.106
64575
722.7 Redesignated as 722.107
64575
722.101—722.107 (Subpart A) Designated as subpart A; heading added
64575
722.101 Redesignated from 722.1
64575
722.102 Redesignated from 722.2
64575
722.103 Redesignated from 722.3
64575
722.104 Redesignated from 722.4
64575
722.105 Redesignated from 722.5
64575
722.106 Redesignated from 722.6
64575
722.107 Redesignated from 722.7
64575
722.201—722.203 (Subpart B) Added
64576
741 Policy statement
17710
741 Authority citation revised
64577
741.3 (c) amended
79393
741.203 (b) revised
64577
741.228 Added; eff. 1-1-26
104877
745 Heading revised; eff. 12-1-26
79414
745.0 Amended; eff. 12-1-26
79414
745.1 Revised; eff. 12-1-26
79414
745.2 (c)(2) revised
79414
745.2 (a) revised; (c)(3) and (d) removed; (c)(4), (e), and (f) redesignated as new (c)(3), new (d), and (e); eff. 12-1-26
79414
745.3 (a)(3) revised
79415
745.4 Revised; eff. 12-1-26
79415
745.9 Redesignated from 745.9-2; new (a) amended; eff. 12-1-26
79415
745.9-1 Removed; eff. 12-1-26
79415
745.9-2 Redesignated as 745.9; eff. 12-1-26
79415
745.13 Amended; eff. 12-1-26
79415
745.14 (a)(2) revised
79415
745 Appendix removed; eff. 12-1-26
79416
746.201 (c) amended
79393
747.1001 Revised
1444
748 Appendix B amended
79393
752 Added
79393
○
