Spanish-speaking staff members are available during daytime hours to callers from the following areas: California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, New Jersey (area code 201), New York, and Texas. Consult your local telephone directory for listings of local chapters.

# Appendix K to § 1926.1101—Polarized Light Microscopy of Asbestos (Non-Mandatory)
Method number:
ID-191
Matrix: Bulk
Collection Procedure:
Collect approximately 1 to 2 grams of each type of material and place into separate 20 mL scintillation vials.
Analytical Procedure:
A portion of each separate phase is analyzed by gross examination, phase-polar examination, and central stop dispersion microscopy.
Commercial manufacturers and products mentioned in this method are for descriptive use only and do not constitute endorsements by USDOL-OSHA. Similar products from other sources may be substituted.

# 1. Introduction
This method describes the collection and analysis of asbestos bulk materials by light microscopy techniques including phase- polar illumination and central-stop dispersion microscopy. Some terms unique to asbestos analysis are defined below:
Amphibole:
A family of minerals whose crystals are formed by long, thin units which have two thin ribbons of double chain silicate with a brucite ribbon in between. The shape of each unit is similar to an “I beam”. Minerals important in asbestos analysis include cummingtonite-grunerite, crocidolite, tremolite-actinolite and anthophyllite.
Asbestos:
A term for naturally occurring fibrous minerals. Asbestos includes chrysotile, cummingtonite-grunerite asbestos (amosite), anthophyllite asbestos, tremolite asbestos, crocidolite, actinolite asbestos and any of these minerals which have been chemically treated or altered. The precise chemical formulation of each species varies with the location from which it was mined. Nominal compositions are listed:
Chrysotile
Mg
3
Si
2
O
5
(OH)
4
Crocidolite (Riebeckite asbestos)
Na
2
Fe
3
2 + Fe
2
3 + Si
8
O
22
(OH)
2
Cummingtonite-Grunerite asbestos (Amosite)
(Mg,Fe)
7
Si
8
O
22
(OH)
2
Tremolite-Actinolite asbestos
Ca
2
(Mg,Fe)
5
Si
8
O
22
(OH)
2
Anthophyllite asbestos
(Mg,Fe)
7
Si
8
O
22
(OH)
2
Asbestos Fiber:
A fiber of asbestos meeting the criteria for a fiber. (See section 3.5. of this Appendix)
Aspect Ratio:
The ratio of the length of a fiber to its diameter usually defined as “length : width”, e.g. 3:1.
Brucite:
A sheet mineral with the composition Mg(OH)
2.
Central Stop Dispersion Staining (microscope):
This is a dark field microscope technique that images particles using only light refracted by the particle, excluding light that travels through the particle unrefracted. This is usually accomplished with a McCrone objective or other arrangement which places a circular stop with apparent aperture equal to the objective aperture in the back focal plane of the microscope.
Cleavage Fragments:
Mineral particles formed by the comminution of minerals, especially those characterized by relatively parallel sides and moderate aspect ratio.
Differential Counting:
The term applied to the practice of excluding certain kinds of fibers from a phase contrast asbestos count because they are not asbestos.
Fiber:
A particle longer than or equal to 5 µm with a length to width ratio greater than or equal to 3:1. This may include cleavage fragments. (see section 3.5 of this appendix).
Phase Contrast:
Contrast obtained in the microscope by causing light scattered by small particles to destructively interfere with unscattered light, thereby enhancing the visibility of very small particles and particles with very low intrinsic contrast.
Phase Contrast Microscope:
A microscope configured with a phase mask pair to create phase contrast. The technique which uses this is called Phase Contrast Microscopy (PCM).
Phase-Polar Analysis:
This is the use of polarized light in a phase contrast microscope. It is used to see the same size fibers that are visible in air filter analysis. Although fibers finer than 1 µm are visible, analysis of these is inferred from analysis of larger bundles that are usually present.
Phase-Polar Microscope:
The phase-polar microscope is a phase contrast microscope which has an analyzer, a polarizer, a first order red plate and a rotating phase condenser all in place so that the polarized light image is enhanced by phase contrast.
Sealing Encapsulant:
This is a product which can be applied, preferably by spraying, onto an asbestos surface which will seal the surface so that fibers cannot be released.
Serpentine:
A mineral family consisting of minerals with the general composition Mg
3
(Si
2
O
5
(OH)
4
having the magnesium in brucite layer over a silicate layer. Minerals important in asbestos analysis included in this family are chrysotile, lizardite, antigorite.

# 1.1. History
Light microscopy has been used for well over 100 years for the determination of mineral species. This analysis is carried out using specialized polarizing microscopes as well as bright field microscopes. The identification of minerals is an on-going process with many new minerals described each year. The first recorded use of asbestos was in Finland about 2500 B.C. where the material was used in the mud wattle for the wooden huts the people lived in as well as strengthening for pottery. Adverse health aspects of the mineral were noted nearly 2000 years ago when Pliny the Younger wrote about the poor health of slaves in the asbestos mines. Although known to be injurious for centuries, the first modern references to its toxicity were by the British Labor Inspectorate when it banned asbestos dust from the workplace in 1898. Asbestosis cases were described in the literature after the
turn of the century. Cancer was first suspected in the mid 1930's and a causal link to mesothelioma was made in 1965. Because of the public concern for worker and public safety with the use of this material, several different types of analysis were applied to the determination of asbestos content. Light microscopy requires a great deal of experience and craft. Attempts were made to apply less subjective methods to the analysis. X-ray diffraction was partially successful in determining the mineral types but was unable to separate out the fibrous portions from the non-fibrous portions. Also, the minimum detection limit for asbestos analysis by X-ray diffraction (XRD) is about 1%. Differential Thermal Analysis (DTA) was no more successful. These provide useful corroborating information when the presence of asbestos has been shown by microscopy; however, neither can determine the difference between fibrous and non-fibrous minerals when both habits are present. The same is true of Infrared Absorption (IR).
When electron microscopy was applied to asbestos analysis, hundreds of fibers were discovered present too small to be visible in any light microscope. There are two different types of electron microscope used for asbestos analysis: Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) and Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM). Scanning Electron Microscopy is useful in identifying minerals. The SEM can provide two of the three pieces of information required to identify fibers by electron microscopy: morphology and chemistry. The third is structure as determined by Selected Area Electron Diffraction—SAED which is performed in the TEM. Although the resolution of the SEM is sufficient for very fine fibers to be seen, accuracy of chemical analysis that can be performed on the fibers varies with fiber diameter in fibers of less than 0.2 µm diameter. The TEM is a powerful tool to identify fibers too small to be resolved by light microscopy and should be used in conjunction with this method when necessary. The TEM can provide all three pieces of information required for fiber identification. Most fibers thicker than 1 µm can adequately be defined in the light microscope. The light microscope remains as the best instrument for the determination of mineral type. This is because the minerals under investigation were first described analytically with the light microscope. It is inexpensive and gives positive identification for most samples analyzed. Further, when optical techniques are inadequate, there is ample indication that alternative techniques should be used for complete identification of the sample.

# 1.2. Principle
Minerals consist of atoms that may be arranged in random order or in a regular arrangement. Amorphous materials have atoms in random order while crystalline materials have long range order. Many materials are transparent to light, at least for small particles or for thin sections. The properties of these materials can be investigated by the effect that the material has on light passing through it. The six asbestos minerals are all crystalline with particular properties that have been identified and cataloged. These six minerals are anisotropic. They have a regular array of atoms, but the arrangement is not the same in all directions. Each major direction of the crystal presents a different regularity. Light photons travelling in each of these main directions will encounter different electrical neighborhoods, affecting the path and time of travel. The techniques outlined in this method use the fact that light traveling through fibers or crystals in different directions will behave differently, but predictably. The behavior of the light as it travels through a crystal can be measured and compared with known or determined values to identify the mineral species. Usually, Polarized Light Microscopy (PLM) is performed with strain-free objectives on a bright-field microscope platform. This would limit the resolution of the microscope to about 0.4 µm. Because OSHA requires the counting and identification of fibers visible in phase contrast, the phase contrast platform is used to visualize the fibers with the polarizing elements added into the light path. Polarized light methods cannot identify fibers finer than about 1 µm in diameter even though they are visible. The finest fibers are usually identified by inference from the presence of larger, identifiable fiber bundles. When fibers are present, but not identifiable by light microscopy, use either SEM or TEM to determine the fiber identity.

# 1.3. Advantages and Disadvantages
The advantages of light microcopy are:
(a) Basic identification of the materials was first performed by light microscopy and gross analysis. This provides a large base of published information against which to check analysis and analytical technique.
(b) The analysis is specific to fibers. The minerals present can exist in asbestiform, fibrous, prismatic, or massive varieties all at the same time. Therefore, bulk methods of analysis such as X-ray diffraction, IR analysis, DTA, etc. are inappropriate where the material is not known to be fibrous.
(c) The analysis is quick, requires little preparation time, and can be performed on-site if a suitably equipped microscope is available.
The disadvantages are:
(a) Even using phase-polar illumination, not all the fibers present may be seen. This is a problem for very low asbestos concentrations where agglomerations or large bundles
of fibers may not be present to allow identification by inference.
(b) The method requires a great degree of sophistication on the part of the microscopist. An analyst is only as useful as his mental catalog of images. Therefore, a microscopist's accuracy is enhanced by experience. The mineralogical training of the analyst is very important. It is the basis on which subjective decisions are made.
(c) The method uses only a tiny amount of material for analysis. This may lead to sampling bias and false results (high or low). This is especially true if the sample is severely inhomogeneous.
(d) Fibers may be bound in a matrix and not distinguishable as fibers so identification cannot be made.

# 1.4. Method Performance
1.4.1.
This method can be used for determination of asbestos content from 0 to 100% asbestos. The detection limit has not been adequately determined, although for selected samples, the limit is very low, depending on the number of particles examined. For mostly homogeneous, finely divided samples, with no difficult fibrous interferences, the detection limit is below 1%. For inhomogeneous samples (most samples), the detection limit remains undefined. NIST has conducted proficiency testing of laboratories on a national scale. Although each round is reported statistically with an average, control limits, etc., the results indicate a difficulty in establishing precision especially in the low concentration range. It is suspected that there is significant bias in the low range especially near 1%. EPA tried to remedy this by requiring a mandatory point counting scheme for samples less than 10%. The point counting procedure is tedious, and may introduce significant biases of its own. It has not been incorporated into this method.
1.4.2.
The precision and accuracy of the quantitation tests performed in this method are unknown. Concentrations are easier to determine in commercial products where asbestos was deliberately added because the amount is usually more than a few percent. An analyst's results can be “calibrated” against the known amounts added by the manufacturer. For geological samples, the degree of homogeneity affects the precision.
1.4.3.
The performance of the method is analyst dependent. The analyst must choose carefully and not necessarily randomly the portions for analysis to assure that detection of asbestos occurs when it is present. For this reason, the analyst must have adequate training in sample preparation, and experience in the location and identification of asbestos in samples. This is usually accomplished through substantial on-the-job training as well as formal education in mineralogy and microscopy.

# 1.5. Interferences
Any material which is long, thin, and small enough to be viewed under the microscope can be considered an interference for asbestos. There are literally hundreds of interferences in workplaces. The techniques described in this method are normally sufficient to eliminate the interferences. An analyst's success in eliminating the interferences depends on proper training.
Asbestos minerals belong to two mineral families: the serpentines and the amphiboles. In the serpentine family, the only common fibrous mineral is chrysotile. Occasionally, the mineral antigorite occurs in a fibril habit with morphology similar to the amphiboles. The amphibole minerals consist of a score of different minerals of which only five are regulated by federal standard: amosite, crocidolite, anthophyllite asbestos, tremolite asbestos and actinolite asbestos. These are the only amphibole minerals that have been commercially exploited for their fibrous properties; however, the rest can and do occur occasionally in asbestiform habit.
In addition to the related mineral interferences, other minerals common in building material may present a problem for some microscopists: gypsum, anhydrite, brucite, quartz fibers, talc fibers or ribbons, wollastonite, perlite, attapulgite, etc. Other fibrous materials commonly present in workplaces are: fiberglass, mineral wool, ceramic wool, refractory ceramic fibers, kevlar, nomex, synthetic fibers, graphite or carbon fibers, cellulose (paper or wood) fibers, metal fibers, etc.
Matrix embedding material can sometimes be a negative interference. The analyst may not be able to easily extract the fibers from the matrix in order to use the method. Where possible, remove the matrix before the analysis, taking careful note of the loss of weight. Some common matrix materials are: vinyl, rubber, tar, paint, plant fiber, cement, and epoxy. A further negative interference is that the asbestos fibers themselves may be either too small to be seen in Phase contrast Microscopy (PCM) or of a very low fibrous quality, having the appearance of plant fibers. The analyst's ability to deal with these materials increases with experience.

# 1.6. Uses and Occupational Exposure
Asbestos is ubiquitous in the environment. More than 40% of the land area of the United States is composed of minerals which may contain asbestos. Fortunately, the actual formation of great amounts of asbestos is relatively rare. Nonetheless, there are locations in which environmental exposure can be severe such as in the Serpentine Hills of California.
There are thousands of uses for asbestos in industry and the home. Asbestos abatement
workers are the most current segment of the population to have occupational exposure to great amounts of asbestos. If the material is undisturbed, there is no exposure. Exposure occurs when the asbestos-containing material is abraded or otherwise disturbed during maintenance operations or some other activity. Approximately 95% of the asbestos in place in the United States is chrysotile.
Amosite and crocidolite make up nearly all the difference. Tremolite and anthophyllite make up a very small percentage. Tremolite is found in extremely small amounts in certain chrysotile deposits. Actinolite exposure is probably greatest from environmental sources, but has been identified in vermiculite containing, sprayed-on insulating materials which may have been certified as asbestos-free.

# 1.7. Physical and Chemical Properties
The nominal chemical compositions for the asbestos minerals were given in Section 1. Compared to cleavage fragments of the same minerals, asbestiform fibers possess a high tensile strength along the fiber axis. They are chemically inert, non-combustible, and heat resistant. Except for chrysotile, they are insoluble in Hydrochloric acid (HCl). Chrysotile is slightly soluble in HCl. Asbestos has high electrical resistance and good sound absorbing characteristics. It can be woven into cables, fabrics or other textiles, or matted into papers, felts, and mats.

# 1.8. Toxicology (This section is for Information Only and Should Not Be Taken as OSHA Policy)
Possible physiologic results of respiratory exposure to asbestos are mesothelioma of the pleura or peritoneum, interstitial fibrosis, asbestosis, pneumoconiosis, or respiratory cancer. The possible consequences of asbestos exposure are detailed in the NIOSH Criteria Document or in the OSHA Asbestos Standards 29 CFR 1910.1001 and 29 CFR 1926.1101 and 29 CFR 1915.1001.

# 2. Sampling Procedure

# 2.1. Equipment for sampling
(a) Tube or cork borer sampling device
(b) Knife
(c) 20 mL scintillation vial or similar vial
(d) Sealing encapsulant

# 2.2. Safety Precautions
Asbestos is a known carcinogen. Take care when sampling. While in an asbestos-containing atmosphere, a properly selected and fit-tested respirator should be worn. Take samples in a manner to cause the least amount of dust. Follow these general guidelines:
(a) Do not make unnecessary dust.
(b) Take only a small amount (1 to 2 g).
(c) Tightly close the sample container.
(d) Use encapsulant to seal the spot where the sample was taken, if necessary.

# 2.3. Sampling Procedure
Samples of any suspect material should be taken from an inconspicuous place. Where the material is to remain, seal the sampling wound with an encapsulant to eliminate the potential for exposure from the sample site. Microscopy requires only a few milligrams of material. The amount that will fill a 20 mL scintillation vial is more than adequate. Be sure to collect samples from all layers and phases of material. If possible, make separate samples of each different phase of the material. This will aid in determining the actual hazard.
DO NOT USE ENVELOPES, PLASTIC OR PAPER BAGS OF ANY KIND TO COLLECT SAMPLES.
The use of plastic bags presents a contamination hazard to laboratory personnel and to other samples. When these containers are opened, a bellows effect blows fibers out of the container onto everything, including the person opening the container.
If a cork-borer type sampler is available, push the tube through the material all the way, so that all layers of material are sampled. Some samplers are intended to be disposable. These should be capped and sent to the laboratory. If a non-disposable cork borer is used, empty the contents into a scintillation vial and send to the laboratory. Vigorously and completely clean the cork borer between samples.

# 2.4 Shipment
Samples packed in glass vials must not touch or they might break in shipment.
(a) Seal the samples with a sample seal over the end to guard against tampering and to identify the sample.
(b) Package the bulk samples in separate packages from the air samples. They may cross-contaminate each other and will invalidate the results of the air samples.
(c) Include identifying paperwork
with
the samples, but not in contact with the suspected asbestos.
(d) To maintain sample accountability, ship the samples by certified mail, overnight express, or hand carry them to the laboratory.

# 3. Analysis
The analysis of asbestos samples can be divided into two major parts: sample preparation and microscopy. Because of the different asbestos uses that may be encountered by the analyst, each sample may need different preparation steps. The choices are outlined below. There are several different tests that are performed to identify the asbestos species and determine the percentage. They will be explained below.

# 3.1. Safety
(a) Do not create unnecessary dust. Handle the samples in HEPA-filter equipped hoods. If samples are received in bags, envelopes or other inappropriate container, open them only in a hood having a face velocity at or greater than 100 fpm. Transfer a small amount to a scintillation vial and only handle the smaller amount.
(b) Open samples in a hood, never in the open lab area.
(c) Index of refraction oils can be toxic. Take care not to get this material on the skin. Wash immediately with soap and water if this happens.
(d) Samples that have been heated in the muffle furnace or the drying oven may be hot. Handle them with tongs until they are cool enough to handle.
(e) Some of the solvents used, such as THF (tetrahydrofuran), are toxic and should only be handled in an appropriate fume hood and according to instructions given in the Safety Data Sheet (SDS).

# 3.2. Equipment
(a) Phase contrast microscope with 10x, 16x and 40x objectives, 10x wide-field eyepieces, G-22 Walton-Beckett graticule, Whipple disk, polarizer, analyzer and first order red or gypsum plate, 100 Watt illuminator, rotating position condenser with oversize phase rings, central stop dispersion objective, Kohler illumination and a rotating mechanical stage.
(b) Stereo microscope with reflected light illumination, transmitted light illumination, polarizer, analyzer and first order red or gypsum plate, and rotating stage.
(c) Negative pressure hood for the stereo microscope
(d) Muffle furnace capable of 600 °C
(e) Drying oven capable of 50-150 °C
(f) Aluminum specimen pans
(g) Tongs for handling samples in the furnace
(h) High dispersion index of refraction oils (Special for dispersion staining.)
n = 1.550
n = 1.585
n = 1.590
n = 1.605
n = 1.620
n = 1.670
n = 1.680
n = 1.690
(i) A set of index of refraction oils from about n = 1.350 to n = 2.000 in n = 0.005 increments. (Standard for Becke line analysis.)
(j) Glass slides with painted or frosted ends 1 × 3 inches 1mm (thick, precleaned.
(k) Cover Slips 22 × 22 mm, #1
1/2
(l) Paper clips or dissection needles
(m) Hand grinder
(n) Scalpel with both #10 and #11 blades
(o) 0.1 molar HCl
(p) Decalcifying solution (Baxter Scientific Products) Ethylenediaminetetraacetic Acid,
Tetrasodium
0.7 g/l
Sodium Potassium Tartrate
8.0 mg/liter
Hydrochloric Acid
99.2 g/liter
Sodium Tartrate
0.14 g/liter
(q) Tetrahydrofuran (THF)
(r) Hotplate capable of 60 °C
(s) Balance
(t) Hacksaw blade
(u) Ruby mortar and pestle

# 3.3. Sample Pre-Preparation
Sample preparation begins with pre-preparation which may include chemical reduction of the matrix, heating the sample to dryness or heating in the muffle furnace. The end result is a sample which has been reduced to a powder that is sufficiently fine to fit under the cover slip. Analyze different phases of samples separately, e.g., tile and the tile mastic should be analyzed separately as the mastic may contain asbestos while the tile may not.
(a)
Wet Samples
Samples with a high water content will not give the proper dispersion colors and must be dried prior to sample mounting. Remove the lid of the scintillation vial, place the bottle in the drying oven and heat at 100 °C to dryness (usually about 2 h). Samples which are not submitted to the lab in glass must be removed and placed in glass vials or aluminum weighing pans before placing them in the drying oven.
(b)
Samples With Organic Interference—Muffle Furnace
These may include samples with tar as a matrix, vinyl asbestos tile, or any other organic that can be reduced by heating. Remove the sample from the vial and weigh in a balance to determine the weight of the submitted portion. Place the sample in a muffle furnace at 500 °C for 1 to 2 h or until all obvious organic material has been removed. Retrieve, cool and weigh again to determine the weight loss on ignition. This is necessary to determine the asbestos content of the submitted sample, because the analyst will be looking at a reduced sample.

# Note:
Heating above 600 °C will cause the sample to undergo a structural change which, given sufficient time, will convert the chrysotile to forsterite. Heating even at lower temperatures for 1 to 2 h may have a measurable effect on the optical properties of the minerals. If the analyst is unsure of what to expect, a sample of standard asbestos should be heated to the same temperature for the same length of time so that it can be examined for the proper interpretation.
(c)
Samples With Organic Interference—THF
Vinyl asbestos tile is the most common material treated with this solvent, although, substances containing tar will sometimes
yield to this treatment. Select a portion of the material and then grind it up if possible. Weigh the sample and place it in a test tube. Add sufficient THF to dissolve the organic matrix. This is usually about 4 to 5 mL.
Remember, THF is highly flammable.
Filter the remaining material through a tared silver membrane, dry and weigh to determine how much is left after the solvent extraction. Further process the sample to remove carbonate or mount directly.
(d)
Samples With Carbonate Interference
Carbonate material is often found on fibers and sometimes must be removed in order to perform dispersion microscopy. Weigh out a portion of the material and place it in a test tube. Add a sufficient amount of 0.1 M HCl or decalcifying solution in the tube to react all the carbonate as evidenced by gas formation; i.e., when the gas bubbles stop, add a little more solution. If no more gas forms, the reaction is complete. Filter the material out through a tared silver membrane, dry and weigh to determine the weight lost.

# 3.4. Sample Preparation
Samples must be prepared so that accurate determination can be made of the asbestos type and amount present. The following steps are carried out in the low-flow hood (a low-flow hood has less than 50 fpm flow):
(1) If the sample has large lumps, is hard, or cannot be made to lie under a cover slip, the grain size must be reduced. Place a small amount between two slides and grind the material between them or grind a small amount in a clean mortar and pestle. The choice of whether to use an alumina, ruby, or diamond mortar depends on the hardness of the material. Impact damage can alter the asbestos mineral if too much mechanical shock occurs. (Freezer mills can completely destroy the observable crystallinity of asbestos and should not be used). For some samples, a portion of material can be shaved off with a scalpel, ground off with a hand grinder or hack saw blade.
The preparation tools should either be disposable or cleaned thoroughly. Use vigorous scrubbing to loosen the fibers during the washing. Rinse the implements with copious amounts of water and air-dry in a dust-free environment.
(2) If the sample is powder or has been reduced as in (1) above, it is ready to mount. Place a glass slide on a piece of optical tissue and write the identification on the painted or frosted end. Place two drops of index of refraction medium n = 1.550 on the slide. (The medium n = 1.550 is chosen because it is the matching index for chrysotile. Dip the end of a clean paper-clip or dissecting needle into the droplet of refraction medium
on the slide
to moisten it. Then dip the probe into the powder sample. Transfer what sticks on the probe to the slide. The material on the end of the probe should have a diameter of about 3 mm for a good mount. If the material is very fine, less sample may be appropriate. For non-powder samples such as fiber mats, forceps should be used to transfer a small amount of material to the slide. Stir the material in the medium on the slide, spreading it out and making the preparation as uniform as possible. Place a cover-slip on the preparation by gently lowering onto the slide and allowing it to fall “trapdoor” fashion on the preparation to push out any bubbles. Press gently on the cover slip to even out the distribution of particulate on the slide. If there is insufficient mounting oil on the slide, one or two drops may be placed near the edge of the coverslip on the slide. Capillary action will draw the necessary amount of liquid into the preparation. Remove excess oil with the point of a laboratory wiper.
Treat at least two different areas of each phase in this fashion. Choose representative areas of the sample. It may be useful to select particular areas or fibers for analysis. This is useful to identify asbestos in severely inhomogeneous samples.
When it is determined that amphiboles may be present, repeat the above process using the appropriate high-dispersion oils until an identification is made or all six asbestos minerals have been ruled out. Note that percent determination must be done in the index medium 1.550 because amphiboles tend to disappear in their matching mediums.

# 3.5. Analytical procedure

# Note:
This method presumes some knowledge of mineralogy and optical petrography.
The analysis consists of three parts: The determination of whether there is asbestos present, what type is present and the determination of how much is present. The general flow of the analysis is:
(1) Gross examination.
(2) Examination under polarized light on the stereo microscope.
(3) Examination by phase-polar illumination on the compound phase microscope.
(4) Determination of species by dispersion stain. Examination by Becke line analysis may also be used; however, this is usually more cumbersome for asbestos determination.
(5) Difficult samples may need to be analyzed by SEM or TEM, or the results from those techniques combined with light microscopy for a definitive identification.
Identification of a particle as asbestos requires that it be asbestiform. Description of particles should follow the suggestion of Campbell. (Figure 1)
ER10AU94.026
For the purpose of regulation, the mineral must be one of the six minerals covered and must be in the asbestos growth habit. Large specimen samples of asbestos generally have the gross appearance of wood. Fibers are easily parted from it. Asbestos fibers are very long compared with their widths. The fibers have a very high tensile strength as demonstrated by bending without breaking. Asbestos fibers exist in bundles that are easily
parted, show longitudinal fine structure and may be tufted at the ends showing “bundle of sticks” morphology. In the microscope some of these properties may not be observable. Amphiboles do not always show striations along their length even when they are asbestos. Neither will they always show tufting. They generally do not show a curved nature except for very long fibers. Asbestos and asbestiform minerals are usually characterized in groups by extremely high aspect ratios (greater than 100:1). While aspect ratio analysis is useful for characterizing populations of fibers, it cannot be used to identify individual fibers of intermediate to short aspect ratio. Observation of many fibers is often necessary to determine whether a sample consists of “cleavage fragments” or of asbestos fibers.
Most cleavage fragments of the asbestos minerals are easily distinguishable from true asbestos fibers. This is because true cleavage fragments usually have larger diameters than 1 µm. Internal structure of particles larger than this usually shows them to have no internal fibrillar structure. In addition, cleavage fragments of the monoclinic amphiboles show inclined extinction under crossed polars with no compensator. Asbestos fibers usually show extinction at zero degrees or ambiguous extinction if any at all. Morphologically, the larger cleavage fragments are obvious by their blunt or stepped ends showing prismatic habit. Also, they tend to be acicular rather than filiform.
Where the particles are less than 1 µm in diameter and have an aspect ratio greater than or equal to 3:1, it is recommended that the sample be analyzed by SEM or TEM if there is any question whether the fibers are cleavage fragments or asbestiform particles.
Care must be taken when analyzing by electron microscopy because the interferences are different from those in light microscopy and may structurally be very similar to asbestos. The classic interference is between anthophyllite and biopyribole or intermediate fiber. Use the same morphological clues for electron microscopy as are used for light microscopy, e.g. fibril splitting, internal longitudinal striation, fraying, curvature, etc.
(1) Gross examination:
Examine the sample, preferably in the glass vial. Determine the presence of any obvious fibrous component. Estimate a percentage based on previous experience and current observation. Determine whether any pre-preparation is necessary. Determine the number of phases present. This step may be carried out or augmented by observation at 6 to 40 × under a stereo microscope.
(2) After performing any necessary pre-preparation, prepare slides of each phase as described above. Two preparations of the same phase in the same index medium can be made side-by-side on the same glass for convenience. Examine with the polarizing stereo microscope. Estimate the percentage of asbestos based on the amount of birefringent fiber present.
(3) Examine the slides on the phase-polar microscopes at magnifications of 160 and 400 × . Note the morphology of the fibers. Long, thin, very straight fibers with little curvature are indicative of fibers from the amphibole family. Curved, wavy fibers are usually indicative of chrysotile. Estimate the percentage of asbestos on the phase-polar microscope under conditions of crossed polars and a gypsum plate. Fibers smaller than 1.0 µm in thickness must be identified by inference to the presence of larger, identifiable fibers and morphology. If no larger fibers are visible, electron microscopy should be performed. At this point, only a tentative identification can be made. Full identification must be made with dispersion microscopy. Details of the tests are included in the appendices.
(4) Once fibers have been determined to be present, they must be identified. Adjust the microscope for dispersion mode and observe the fibers. The microscope has a rotating stage, one polarizing element, and a system for generating dark-field dispersion microscopy (see Section 4.6. of this appendix). Align a fiber with its length parallel to the polarizer and note the color of the Becke lines. Rotate the stage to bring the fiber length perpendicular to the polarizer and note the color. Repeat this process for every fiber or fiber bundle examined. The colors must be consistent with the colors generated by standard asbestos reference materials for a positive identification. In n = 1.550, amphiboles will generally show a yellow to straw-yellow color indicating that the fiber indices of refraction are higher than the liquid. If long, thin fibers are noted and the colors are yellow, prepare further slides as above in the suggested matching liquids listed below:
Type of asbestos
Index of refraction
Chrysotile
n = 1.550.
Amosite
n = 1.670 or 1.680.
Crocidolite
n = 1.690.
Anthophyllite
n = 1.605 and 1.620.
Tremolite
n = 1.605 and 1.620.
Actinolite
n = 1.620.
Where more than one liquid is suggested, the first is preferred; however, in some cases this liquid will not give good dispersion color. Take care to avoid interferences in the other liquid; e.g., wollastonite in n = 1.620 will give the same colors as tremolite. In n = 1.605 wollastonite will appear yellow in all directions. Wollastonite may be determined under crossed polars as it will change from blue to yellow as it is rotated along its fiber axis by tapping on the cover slip. Asbestos minerals will not change in this way.
Determination of the angle of extinction may, when present, aid in the determination of anthophyllite from tremolite. True asbestos fibers usually have 0° extinction or ambiguous extinction, while cleavage fragments have more definite extinction.
Continue analysis until both preparations have been examined and all present species of asbestos are identified. If there are no fibers present, or there is less than 0.1% present, end the analysis with the minimum number of slides (2).
(5) Some fibers have a coating on them which makes dispersion microscopy very difficult or impossible. Becke line analysis or electron microscopy may be performed in those cases. Determine the percentage by light microscopy. TEM analysis tends to overestimate the actual percentage present.
(6) Percentage determination is an estimate of occluded area, tempered by gross observation. Gross observation information is used to make sure that the high magnification microscopy does not greatly over- or under- estimate the amount of fiber present. This part of the analysis requires a great deal of experience. Satisfactory models for asbestos content analysis have not yet been developed, although some models based on metallurgical grain-size determination have found some utility. Estimation is more easily handled in situations where the grain sizes visible at about 160 × are about the same and the sample is relatively homogeneous.
View all of the area under the cover slip to make the percentage determination. View the fields while moving the stage, paying attention to the clumps of material. These are not usually the best areas to perform dispersion microscopy because of the interference from other materials. But, they are the areas most likely to represent the accurate percentage in the sample. Small amounts of asbestos require slower scanning and more frequent analysis of individual fields.
Report the area occluded by asbestos as the concentration. This estimate does not generally take into consideration the difference in density of the different species present in the sample. For most samples this is adequate. Simulation studies with similar materials must be carried out to apply microvisual estimation for that purpose and is beyond the scope of this procedure.
(7) Where successive concentrations have been made by chemical or physical means, the amount reported is the percentage of the material in the “as submitted” or original state. The percentage determined by microscopy is multiplied by the fractions remaining after pre-preparation steps to give the percentage in the original sample. For example:
Step 1. 60% remains after heating at 550 °C for 1 h.
Step 2. 30% of the residue of step 1 remains after dissolution of carbonate in 0.1 m HCl.
Step 3. Microvisual estimation determines that 5% of the sample is chrysotile asbestos.
The reported result is:
R = (Microvisual result in percent) × (Fraction remaining after step 2) × (Fraction remaining of original sample after step 1)
R = (5) × (.30) × (.60) = 0.9%
(8) Report the percent and type of asbestos present. For samples where asbestos was identified, but is less than 1.0%, report “Asbestos present, less than 1.0%.” There must have been at least two observed fibers or fiber bundles in the two preparations to be reported as present. For samples where asbestos was not seen, report as “None Detected.”

# Auxiliary Information
Because of the subjective nature of asbestos analysis, certain concepts and procedures need to be discussed in more depth. This information will help the analyst understand why some of the procedures are carried out the way they are.

# 4.1. Light
Light is electromagnetic energy. It travels from its source in packets called quanta. It is instructive to consider light as a plane wave. The light has a direction of travel. Perpendicular to this and mutually perpendicular to each other, are two vector components. One is the magnetic vector and the other is the electric vector. We shall only be concerned with the electric vector. In this description, the interaction of the vector and the mineral will describe all the observable phenomena. From a light source such a microscope illuminator, light travels in all different direction from the filament.
In any given direction away from the filament, the electric vector is perpendicular to the direction of travel of a light ray. While perpendicular, its orientation is random about the travel axis. If the electric vectors from all the light rays were lined up by passing the light through a filter that would only let light rays with electric vectors oriented in one direction pass, the light would then be
POLARIZED.
Polarized light interacts with matter in the direction of the electric vector. This is the polarization direction. Using this property it is possible to use polarized light to probe different materials and identify them by how they interact with light.
The speed of light in a vacuum is a constant at about 2.99 × 10
8
m/s. When light travels in different materials such as air, water, minerals or oil, it does not travel at this speed. It travels slower. This slowing is a function of both the material through which the light is traveling and the wavelength or
frequency of the light. In general, the more dense the material, the slower the light travels. Also, generally, the higher the frequency, the slower the light will travel. The ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to that in a material is called the index of refraction (n). It is usually measured at 589 nm (the sodium D line). If white light (light containing all the visible wavelengths) travels through a material, rays of longer wavelengths will travel faster than those of shorter wavelengths, this separation is called dispersion. Dispersion is used as an identifier of materials as described in Section 4.6.

# 4.2. Material Properties
Materials are either amorphous or crystalline. The difference between these two descriptions depends on the positions of the atoms in them. The atoms in amorphous materials are randomly arranged with no long range order. An example of an amorphous material is glass. The atoms in crystalline materials, on the other hand, are in regular arrays and have long range order. Most of the atoms can be found in highly predictable locations. Examples of crystalline material are salt, gold, and the asbestos minerals.
It is beyond the scope of this method to describe the different types of crystalline materials that can be found, or the full description of the classes into which they can fall. However, some general crystallography is provided below to give a foundation to the procedures described.
With the exception of anthophyllite, all the asbestos minerals belong to the monoclinic crystal type. The unit cell is the basic repeating unit of the crystal and for monoclinic crystals can be described as having three unequal sides, two 90° angles and one angle not equal to 90°. The orthorhombic group, of which anthophyllite is a member has three unequal sides and three 90° angles. The unequal sides are a consequence of the complexity of fitting the different atoms into the unit cell. Although the atoms are in a regular array, that array is not symmetrical in all directions. There is long range order in the three major directions of the crystal. However, the order is different in each of the three directions. This has the effect that the index of refraction is different in each of the three directions. Using polarized light, we can investigate the index of refraction in each of the directions and identify the mineral or material under investigation. The indices α, β, and γ are used to identify the lowest, middle, and highest index of refraction respectively. The x direction, associated with α is called the fast axis. Conversely, the z direction is associated with γ and is the slow direction. Crocidolite has α along the fiber length making it “length-fast”. The remainder of the asbestos minerals have the γ axis along the fiber length. They are called “length-slow”. This orientation to fiber length is used to aid in the identification of asbestos.

# 4.3. Polarized Light Technique
Polarized light microscopy as described in this section uses the phase-polar microscope described in Section 3.2. A phase contrast microscope is fitted with two polarizing elements, one below and one above the sample. The polarizers have their polarization directions at right angles to each other. Depending on the tests performed, there may be a compensator between these two polarizing elements. A compensator is a piece of mineral with known properties that “compensates” for some deficiency in the optical train. Light emerging from a polarizing element has its electric vector pointing in the polarization direction of the element. The light will not be subsequently transmitted through a second element set at a right angle to the first element. Unless the light is altered as it passes from one element to the other, there is no transmission of light.

# 4.4. Angle of Extinction
Crystals which have different crystal regularity in two or three main directions are said to be anisotropic. They have a different index of refraction in each of the main directions. When such a crystal is inserted between the crossed polars, the field of view is no longer dark but shows the crystal in color. The color depends on the properties of the crystal. The light acts as if it travels through the crystal along the optical axes. If a crystal optical axis were lined up along one of the polarizing directions (either the polarizer or the analyzer) the light would appear to travel only in that direction, and it would blink out or go dark. The difference in degrees between the fiber direction and the angle at which it blinks out is called the angle of extinction. When this angle can be measured, it is useful in identifying the mineral. The procedure for measuring the angle of extinction is to first identify the polarization direction in the microscope. A commercial alignment slide can be used to establish the polarization directions or use anthophyllite or another suitable mineral. This mineral has a zero degree angle of extinction and will go dark to extinction as it aligns with the polarization directions. When a fiber of anthophyllite has gone to extinction, align the eyepiece reticle or graticule with the fiber so that there is a visual cue as to the direction of polarization in the field of view. Tape or otherwise secure the eyepiece in this position so it will not shift.
After the polarization direction has been identified in the field of view, move the particle of interest to the center of the field of
view and align it with the polarization direction. For fibers, align the fiber along this direction. Note the angular reading of the rotating stage. Looking at the particle, rotate the stage until the fiber goes dark or “blinks out”. Again note the reading of the stage. The difference in the first reading and the second is an angle of extinction.
The angle measured may vary as the orientation of the fiber changes about its long axis. Tables of mineralogical data usually report the maximum angle of extinction. Asbestos forming minerals, when they exhibit an angle of extinction, usually do show an angle of extinction close to the reported maximum, or as appropriate depending on the substitution chemistry.

# 4.5. Crossed Polars with Compensator
When the optical axes of a crystal are not lined up along one of the polarizing directions (either the polarizer or the analyzer) part of the light travels along one axis and part travels along the other visible axis. This is characteristic of birefringent materials.
The color depends on the difference of the two visible indices of refraction and the thickness of the crystal. The maximum difference available is the difference between the α and the γ axes. This maximum difference is usually tabulated as the birefringence of the crystal.
For this test, align the fiber at 45° to the polarization directions in order to maximize the contribution to each of the optical axes. The colors seen are called retardation colors. They arise from the recombination of light which has traveled through the two separate directions of the crystal. One of the rays is retarded behind the other since the light in that direction travels slower. On recombination, some of the colors which make up white light are enhanced by constructive interference and some are suppressed by destructive interference. The result is a color dependent on the difference between the indices and the thickness of the crystal. The proper colors, thicknesses, and retardations are shown on a Michel-Levy chart. The three items, retardation, thickness and birefringence are related by the following relationship:
R = t(n
γ
−n
α
)
R = retardation, t = crystal thickness in µm, and
n
α,γ
= indices of refraction.
Examination of the equation for asbestos minerals reveals that the visible colors for almost all common asbestos minerals and fiber sizes are shades of gray and black. The eye is relatively poor at discriminating different shades of gray. It is very good at discriminating different colors. In order to compensate for the low retardation, a compensator is added to the light train between the polarization elements. The compensator used for this test is a gypsum plate of known thickness and birefringence. Such a compensator when oriented at 45° to the polarizer direction, provides a retardation of 530 nm of the 530 nm wavelength color. This enhances the red color and gives the background a characteristic red to red-magenta color. If this “full-wave” compensator is in place when the asbestos preparation is inserted into the light train, the colors seen on the fibers are quite different. Gypsum, like asbestos has a fast axis and a slow axis. When a fiber is aligned with its fast axis in the same direction as the fast axis of the gypsum plate, the ray vibrating in the slow direction is retarded by both the asbestos and the gypsum. This results in a higher retardation than would be present for either of the two minerals. The color seen is a second order blue. When the fiber is rotated 90° using the rotating stage, the slow direction of the fiber is now aligned with the fast direction of the gypsum and the fast direction of the fiber is aligned with the slow direction of the gypsum. Thus, one ray vibrates faster in the fast direction of the gypsum, and slower in the slow direction of the fiber; the other ray will vibrate slower in the slow direction of the gypsum and faster in the fast direction of the fiber. In this case, the effect is subtractive and the color seen is a first order yellow. As long as the fiber thickness does not add appreciably to the color, the same basic colors will be seen for all asbestos types except crocidolite. In crocidolite the colors will be weaker, may be in the opposite directions, and will be altered by the blue absorption color natural to crocidolite. Hundreds of other materials will give the same colors as asbestos, and therefore, this test is not definitive for asbestos. The test is useful in discriminating against fiberglass or other amorphous fibers such as some synthetic fibers. Certain synthetic fibers will show retardation colors different than asbestos; however, there are some forms of polyethylene and aramid which will show morphology and retardation colors similar to asbestos minerals. This test must be supplemented with a positive identification test when birefringent fibers are present which can not be excluded by morphology. This test is relatively ineffective for use on fibers less than 1 µm in diameter. For positive confirmation TEM or SEM should be used if no larger bundles or fibers are visible.

# 4.6. Dispersion Staining
Dispersion microscopy or dispersion staining is the method of choice for the identification of asbestos in bulk materials. Becke line analysis is used by some laboratories and yields the same results as does dispersion staining for asbestos and can be used in lieu of dispersion staining. Dispersion staining is performed on the same platform as the
phase-polar analysis with the analyzer and compensator removed. One polarizing element remains to define the direction of the light so that the different indices of refraction of the fibers may be separately determined. Dispersion microscopy is a dark-field technique when used for asbestos. Particles are imaged with scattered light. Light which is unscattered is blocked from reaching the eye either by the back field image mask in a McCrone objective or a back field image mask in the phase condenser. The most convenient method is to use the rotating phase condenser to move an oversized phase ring into place. The ideal size for this ring is for the central disk to be just larger than the objective entry aperture as viewed in the back focal plane. The larger the disk, the less scattered light reaches the eye. This will have the effect of diminishing the intensity of dispersion color and will shift the actual color seen. The colors seen vary even on microscopes from the same manufacturer. This is due to the different bands of wavelength exclusion by different mask sizes. The mask may either reside in the condenser or in the objective back focal plane. It is imperative that the analyst determine by experimentation with asbestos standards what the appropriate colors should be for each asbestos type. The colors depend also on the temperature of the preparation and the exact chemistry of the asbestos. Therefore, some slight differences from the standards should be allowed. This is not a serious problem for commercial asbestos uses. This technique is used for identification of the indices of refraction for fibers by recognition of color. There is no direct numerical readout of the index of refraction. Correlation of color to actual index of refraction is possible by referral to published conversion tables. This is not necessary for the analysis of asbestos. Recognition of appropriate colors along with the proper morphology are deemed sufficient to identify the commercial asbestos minerals. Other techniques including SEM, TEM, and XRD may be required to provide additional information in order to identify other types of asbestos.
Make a preparation in the suspected matching high dispersion oil, e.g., n = 1.550 for chrysotile. Perform the preliminary tests to determine whether the fibers are birefringent or not. Take note of the morphological character. Wavy fibers are indicative of chrysotile while long, straight, thin, frayed fibers are indicative of amphibole asbestos. This can aid in the selection of the appropriate matching oil. The microscope is set up and the polarization direction is noted as in Section 4.4. Align a fiber with the polarization direction. Note the color. This is the color parallel to the polarizer. Then rotate the fiber rotating the stage 90° so that the polarization direction is across the fiber. This is the perpendicular position. Again note the color. Both colors must be consistent with standard asbestos minerals in the correct direction for a positive identification of asbestos. If only one of the colors is correct while the other is not, the identification is not positive. If the colors in both directions are bluish-white, the analyst has chosen a matching index oil which is higher than the correct matching oil, e.g. the analyst has used n = 1.620 where chrysotile is present. The next lower oil (Section 3.5.) should be used to prepare another specimen. If the color in both directions is yellow-white to straw-yellow-white, this indicates that the index of the oil is lower than the index of the fiber, e.g. the preparation is in n = 1.550 while anthophyllite is present. Select the next higher oil (Section 3.5.) and prepare another slide. Continue in this fashion until a positive identification of all asbestos species present has been made or all possible asbestos species have been ruled out by negative results in this test. Certain plant fibers can have similar dispersion colors as asbestos. Take care to note and evaluate the morphology of the fibers or remove the plant fibers in pre-preparation. Coating material on the fibers such as carbonate or vinyl may destroy the dispersion color. Usually, there will be some outcropping of fiber which will show the colors sufficient for identification. When this is not the case, treat the sample as described in Section 3.3. and then perform dispersion staining. Some samples will yield to Becke line analysis if they are coated or electron microscopy can be used for identification.

# 5. References
5.1. Crane, D.T.,
Asbestos in Air,
OSHA method ID160, Revised November 1992.
5.2. Ford, W.E.,
Dana's Textbook of Mineralogy;
Fourth Ed.; John Wiley and Son, New York, 1950, p. vii.
5.3. Selikoff, I.J., Lee, D.H.K.,
Asbestos and Disease,
Academic Press, New York, 1978, pp. 3,20.
5.4.
Women Inspectors of Factories.
Annual Report for 1898, H.M. Statistical Office, London, p. 170 (1898).
5.5. Selikoff,.I.J., Lee, D.H.K.,
Asbestos and Disease,
Academic Press, New York, 1978, pp. 26,30.
5.6. Campbell, W.J., et al,
Selected Silicate Minerals and Their Asbestiform Varieties,
United States Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines, Information Circular 8751, 1977.
5.7.
Asbestos,
Code of Federal Regulations, 29 CFR 1910.1001 and 29 CFR 1926.58.
5.8.
National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants; Asbestos NESHAP Revision,
Federal Register,
Vol. 55, No. 224, 20 November 1990, p. 48410.
5.9. Ross, M.
The Asbestos Minerals: Definitions, Description, Modes of Formation, Physical and Chemical Properties and Health Risk
to the Mining Community,
Nation Bureau of Standards Special Publication, Washington, DC, 1977.
5.10. Lilis, R., Fibrous Zeolites and Endemic Mesothelioma in Cappadocia, Turkey,
J. Occ Medicine,
1981, 23,(8),548-550.
5.11.
Occupational Exposure to Asbestos—1972,
U.S. Department of Health Education and Welfare, Public Health Service, Center for Disease Control, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, HSM-72-10267.
5.12. Campbell,W.J., et al, Relationship of Mineral Habit to Size
Characteristics for Tremolite Fragments and Fibers,
United States Department of the Interior, Bureau of Mines, Information Circular 8367, 1979.
5.13. Mefford, D., DCM Laboratory, Denver, private communication, July 1987.
5.14. Deer, W.A., Howie, R.A., Zussman, J.,
Rock Forming Minerals,
Longman, Thetford, UK, 1974.
5.15. Kerr, P.F.,
Optical Mineralogy;
Third Ed. McGraw-Hill, New York, 1959.
5.16. Veblen, D.R. (Ed.),
Amphiboles and Other Hydrous Pyriboles—Mineralogy, Reviews in Mineralogy,
Vol 9A, Michigan, 1982, pp 1-102.
5.17. Dixon, W.C.,
Applications of Optical Microscopy in the Analysis of Asbestos
and Quartz, ACS Symposium Series, No. 120, Analytical Techniques in Occupational Health Chemistry, 1979.
5.18. Polarized Light Microscopy, McCrone Research Institute, Chicago, 1976.
5.19. Asbestos Identification, McCrone Research Institute, G
G printers, Chicago, 1987.
5.20. McCrone, W.C., Calculation of Refractive Indices from Dispersion Staining Data, The Microscope, No 37, Chicago, 1989.
5.21. Levadie, B. (Ed.),
Asbestos and Other Health Related Silicates,
ASTM Technical Publication 834, ASTM, Philadelphia 1982.
5.22. Steel, E. and Wylie, A., Riordan, P.H. (Ed.), Mineralogical Characteristics of Asbestos,
Geology of Asbestos Deposits,
pp. 93-101, SME-AIME, 1981.
5.23. Zussman, J., The Mineralogy of Asbestos,
Asbestos: Properties, Applications and Hazards,
pp. 45-67 Wiley, 1979.
[51 FR 22756, June 20, 1986]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1926.1101, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 1926.1102
Coal tar pitch volatiles; interpretation of term.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1002 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1103
13 carcinogens (4-Nitrobiphenyl, etc.).

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1104
alpha-Naphthylamine.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1105
[Reserved]
§ 1926.1106
Methyl chloromethyl ether.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1107
3,3′-Dichlorobenzidiene (and its salts).

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1108
bis-Chloromethyl ether.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1109
beta-Naphthylamine.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1110
Benzidine.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1111
4-Aminodiphenyl.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1112
Ethyleneimine.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1113
beta-Propiolactone.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1114
2-Acetylaminofluorene.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1115
4-Dimethylaminoazobenzene.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1116
N-Nitrosodimethylamine.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1003 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1117
Vinyl chloride.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1017 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1118
Inorganic arsenic.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1018 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31433, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1124
Beryllium.
(a)
Scope and application.
(1) This standard applies to occupational exposure to beryllium in all forms, compounds, and mixtures in construction, except those articles and materials exempted by paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this standard.
(2) This standard does not apply to articles, as defined in the Hazard Communication standard (HCS) (29 CFR 1910.1200(c)), that contain beryllium and that the employer does not process.
(3) This standard does not apply to materials containing less than 0.1% beryllium by weight where the employer has objective data demonstrating that employee exposure to beryllium will remain below the action level as an 8-hour TWA under any foreseeable conditions.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this standard:
Action level
means a concentration of airborne beryllium of 0.1 micrograms per cubic meter of air (µg/m
3
) calculated as an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA).
Airborne exposure
and
airborne exposure to beryllium
mean the exposure to airborne beryllium that would occur if the employee were not using a respirator.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, United States Department of Labor, or designee.
Beryllium lymphocyte proliferation test (BeLPT)
means the measurement of blood lymphocyte proliferation in a laboratory test when lymphocytes are challenged with a soluble beryllium salt.
Beryllium sensitization
means a response in the immune system of a specific individual who has been exposed to beryllium. There are no associated physical or clinical symptoms and no illness or disability with beryllium sensitization alone, but the response that occurs through beryllium sensitization can enable the immune system to recognize and react to beryllium. While not every beryllium-sensitized person will develop chronic beryllium disease (CBD), beryllium sensitization is essential for development of CBD.
CBD diagnostic center
means a medical diagnostic center that has a pulmonologist or pulmonary specialist on staff and on-site facilities to perform a clinical evaluation for the presence of chronic beryllium disease (CBD). The CBD diagnostic center must
have the capacity to perform pulmonary function testing (as outlined by the American Thoracic Society criteria), bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), and transbronchial biopsy. The CBD diagnostic center must also have the capacity to transfer BAL samples to a laboratory for appropriate diagnostic testing within 24 hours. The pulmonologist or pulmonary specialist must be able to interpret the biopsy pathology and the BAL diagnostic test results.
Chronic beryllium disease (CBD)
means a chronic granulomatous lung disease caused by inhalation of airborne beryllium by an individual who is beryllium-sensitized.
Competent person
means an individual who is capable of identifying existing and foreseeable beryllium hazards in the workplace and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate or minimize them. The competent person must have the knowledge, ability, and authority necessary to fulfill the responsibilities set forth in paragraph (e) of this standard.
Confirmed positive
means the person tested has had two abnormal BeLPT test results, an abnormal and a borderline test result, or three borderline test results from tests conducted within a 3-year period. It also means the result of a more reliable and accurate test indicating a person has been identified as having beryllium sensitization.
Director
means the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designee.
Objective data
means information, such as air monitoring data from industry-wide surveys or calculations based on the composition of a substance, demonstrating airborne exposure to beryllium associated with a particular product or material or a specific process, task, or activity. The data must reflect workplace conditions closely resembling or with a higher airborne exposure potential than the processes, types of material, control methods, work practices, and environmental conditions in the employer's current operations.
Physician or other licensed health care professional (PLHCP)
means an individual whose legally permitted scope of practice (
i.e.,
license, registration, or certification) allows the individual to independently provide or be delegated the responsibility to provide some or all of the health care services required by paragraph (k) of this standard.
This standard
means this beryllium standard, 29 CFR 1926.1124.
(c)
Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs)
—(1)
Time-weighted average (TWA) PEL.
The employer must ensure that no employee is exposed to an airborne concentration of beryllium in excess of 0.2 µg/m
3
calculated as an 8-hour TWA.
(2)
Short-term exposure limit (STEL).
The employer must ensure that no employee is exposed to an airborne concentration of beryllium in excess of 2.0 µg/m
3
as determined over a sampling period of 15 minutes.
(d)
Exposure assessment
—(1)
General.
The employer must assess the airborne exposure of each employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be exposed to airborne beryllium in accordance with either the performance option in paragraph (d)(2) or the scheduled monitoring option in paragraph (d)(3) of this standard.
(2)
Performance option.
The employer must assess the 8-hour TWA exposure and the 15-minute short-term exposure for each employee on the basis of any combination of air monitoring data and objective data sufficient to accurately characterize airborne exposure to beryllium.
(3)
Scheduled monitoring option.
(i) The employer must perform initial monitoring to assess the 8-hour TWA exposure for each employee on the basis of one or more personal breathing zone air samples that reflect the airborne exposure of employees on each shift, for each job classification, and in each work area.
(ii) The employer must perform initial monitoring to assess the short-term exposure from 15-minute personal breathing zone air samples measured in operations that are likely to produce airborne exposure above the STEL for each work shift, for each job classification, and in each work area.
(iii) Where several employees perform the same tasks on the same shift
and in the same work area, the employer may sample a representative fraction of these employees in order to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(3). In representative sampling, the employer must sample the employee(s) expected to have the highest airborne exposure to beryllium.
(iv) If initial monitoring indicates that airborne exposure is below the action level and at or below the STEL, the employer may discontinue monitoring for those employees whose airborne exposure is represented by such monitoring.
(v) Where the most recent exposure monitoring indicates that airborne exposure is at or above the action level but at or below the TWA PEL, the employer must repeat such monitoring within six months of the most recent monitoring.
(vi) Where the most recent exposure monitoring indicates that airborne exposure is above the TWA PEL, the employer must repeat such monitoring within three months of the most recent 8-hour TWA exposure monitoring.
(vii) Where the most recent (non-initial) exposure monitoring indicates that airborne exposure is below the action level, the employer must repeat such monitoring within six months of the most recent monitoring until two consecutive measurements, taken 7 or more days apart, are below the action level, at which time the employer may discontinue 8-hour TWA exposure monitoring for those employees whose exposure is represented by such monitoring, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this standard.
(viii) Where the most recent exposure monitoring indicates that airborne exposure is above the STEL, the employer must repeat such monitoring within three months of the most recent short-term exposure monitoring until two consecutive measurements, taken 7 or more days apart, are below the STEL, at which time the employer may discontinue short-term exposure monitoring for those employees whose exposure is represented by such monitoring, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this standard.
(4)
Reassessment of exposure.
The employer must reassess airborne exposure whenever a change in the production, process, control equipment, personnel, or work practices may reasonably be expected to result in new or additional airborne exposure at or above the action level or STEL, or when the employer has any reason to believe that new or additional airborne exposure at or above the action level or STEL has occurred.
(5)
Methods of sample analysis.
The employer must ensure that all air monitoring samples used to satisfy the monitoring requirements of paragraph (d) of this standard are evaluated by a laboratory that can measure beryllium to an accuracy of plus or minus 25 percent within a statistical confidence level of 95 percent for airborne concentrations at or above the action level.
(6)
Employee notification of assessment results.
(i) Within 15 working days after completing an exposure assessment in accordance with paragraph (d) of this standard, the employer must notify each employee whose airborne exposure is represented by the assessment of the results of that assessment individually in writing or post the results in an appropriate location that is accessible to each of these employees.
(ii) Whenever an exposure assessment indicates that airborne exposure is above the TWA PEL or STEL, the employer must describe in the written notification the corrective action being taken to reduce airborne exposure to or below the exposure limit(s) exceeded where feasible corrective action exists but had not been implemented when the monitoring was conducted.
(7)
Observation of monitoring.
(i) The employer must provide an opportunity to observe any exposure monitoring required by this standard to each employee whose airborne exposure is measured or represented by the monitoring and each employee's representative(s).
(ii) When observation of monitoring requires entry into an area where the use of personal protective clothing or equipment (which may include respirators) is required, the employer must provide each observer with appropriate personal protective clothing and equipment at no cost to the observer.
(iii) The employer must ensure that each observer follows all other applicable safety and health procedures.
(e)
Competent person.
Wherever employees are, or can reasonably be expected to be, exposed to airborne beryllium at levels above the TWA PEL or STEL, the employer must designate a competent person to
(1) Make frequent and regular inspections of job sites, materials, and equipment;
(2) Implement the written exposure control plan under paragraph (f) of this standard;
(3) Ensure that all employees use respiratory protection in accordance with paragraph (g) of this standard; and
(4) Ensure that all employees use personal protective clothing and equipment in accordance with paragraph (h) of this standard.
(f)
Methods of compliance
—(1)
Written exposure control plan.
(i) The employer must establish, implement, and maintain a written exposure control plan, which must contain:
(A) A list of operations and job titles reasonably expected to involve exposure to beryllium;
(B) A list of engineering controls, work practices, and respiratory protection required by paragraph (f)(2) of this standard;
(C) A list of personal protective clothing and equipment required by paragraph (h) of this standard;
(D) Procedures used to restrict access to work areas when airborne exposures are, or can reasonably be expected to be, above the TWA PEL or STEL, to minimize the number of employees exposed to airborne beryllium and their level of exposure, including exposures generated by other employers or sole proprietors;
(E) Procedures used to ensure the integrity of each containment used to minimize exposures to employees outside the containment; and
(F) Procedures for removing, cleaning, and maintaining personal protective clothing and equipment in accordance with paragraph (h) of this standard.
(ii) The employer must review and evaluate the effectiveness of each written exposure control plan at least annually and update it, as necessary, when:
(A) Any change in production processes, materials, equipment, personnel, work practices, or control methods results, or can reasonably be expected to result, in new or additional airborne exposure to beryllium;
(B) The employer is notified that an employee is eligible for medical removal in accordance with paragraph (l)(1) of this standard, referred for evaluation at a CBD diagnostic center, or shows signs or symptoms associated with exposure to beryllium; or
(C) The employer has any reason to believe that new or additional airborne exposure is occurring or will occur.
(iii) The employer must make a copy of the written exposure control plan accessible to each employee who is, or can reasonably be expected to be, exposed to airborne beryllium in accordance with OSHA's Access to Employee Exposure and Medical Records (Records Access) standard (29 CFR 1910.1020(e)).
(2)
Engineering and work practice controls.
The employer must use engineering and work practice controls to reduce and maintain employee airborne exposure to beryllium to or below the TWA PEL and STEL, unless the employer can demonstrate that such controls are not feasible. Wherever the employer demonstrates that it is not feasible to reduce airborne exposure to or below the PELs with engineering and work practice controls, the employer must implement and maintain engineering and work practice controls to reduce airborne exposure to the lowest levels feasible and supplement these controls by using respiratory protection in accordance with paragraph (g) of this standard.
(3)
Prohibition of rotation.
The employer must not rotate employees to different jobs to achieve compliance with the PELs.
(g)
Respiratory protection
—(1)
General.
The employer must provide respiratory protection at no cost to the employee and ensure that each employee uses respiratory protection:
(i) During periods necessary to install or implement feasible engineering
and work practice controls where airborne exposure exceeds, or can reasonably be expected to exceed, the TWA PEL or STEL;
(ii) During operations, including maintenance and repair activities and non-routine tasks, when engineering and work practice controls are not feasible and airborne exposure exceeds, or can reasonably be expected to exceed, the TWA PEL or STEL;
(iii) During operations for which an employer has implemented all feasible engineering and work practice controls when such controls are not sufficient to reduce airborne exposure to or below the TWA PEL or STEL; and
(iv) When an employee who is eligible for medical removal under paragraph (l)(1) chooses to remain in a job with airborne exposure at or above the action level, as permitted by paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this standard.
(2)
Respiratory protection program.
Where this standard requires an employer to provide respiratory protection, the selection and use of such respiratory protection must be in accordance with the Respiratory Protection standard (29 CFR 1910.134).
(3) The employer must provide at no cost to the employee a powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR) instead of a negative pressure respirator when:
(i) Respiratory protection is required by this standard;
(ii) An employee entitled to such respiratory protection requests a PAPR; and
(iii) The PAPR provides adequate protection to the employee in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this standard.
(h)
Personal protective clothing and equipment
—(1)
Provision and use.
Where airborne exposure exceeds, or can reasonably be expected to exceed, the TWA PEL or STEL, the employer must provide at no cost, and ensure that each employee uses, appropriate personal protective clothing and equipment in accordance with the written exposure control plan required under paragraph (f)(1) of this standard and OSHA's Personal Protective and Life Saving Equipment standards for construction (subpart E of this part).
(2)
Removal of personal protective clothing and equipment.
(i) The employer must ensure that each employee removes all personal protective clothing and equipment required by this standard at the end of the work shift or at the completion of all tasks involving beryllium, whichever comes first.
(ii) The employer must ensure that personal protective clothing and equipment required by this standard is not removed in a manner that disperses beryllium into the air, and is removed as specified in the written exposure control plan required by paragraph (f)(1) of this standard.
(iii) The employer must ensure that no employee with reasonably expected exposure above the TWA PEL or STEL removes personal protective clothing and equipment required by this standard from the workplace unless it has been cleaned in accordance with paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this standard.
(3)
Cleaning and replacement.
(i) The employer must ensure that all reusable personal protective clothing and equipment required by this standard is cleaned, laundered, repaired, and replaced as needed to maintain its effectiveness.
(ii) The employer must ensure that beryllium is not removed from personal protective clothing and equipment required by this standard by blowing, shaking, or any other means that disperses beryllium into the air.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Housekeeping.
(1) When cleaning up dust resulting from operations that cause, or can reasonably be expected to cause, airborne exposure above the TWA PEL or STEL, the employer must ensure the use of methods that minimize the likelihood and level of airborne exposure.
(2) The employer must not allow dry sweeping or brushing for cleaning up dust resulting from operations that cause, or can reasonably be expected to cause, airborne exposure above the TWA PEL or STEL unless methods that minimize the likelihood and level of airborne exposure are not safe or effective.
(3) The employer must not allow the use of compressed air for cleaning where the use of compressed air causes, or can reasonably be expected to cause, airborne exposure above the TWA PEL or STEL.
(4) Where employees use dry sweeping, brushing, or compressed air to clean, the employer must provide, and ensure that each employee uses, respiratory protection and personal protective clothing and equipment in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (h) of this standard.
(5) The employer must ensure that cleaning equipment is handled and maintained in a manner that minimizes the likelihood and level of airborne exposure and the re-entrainment of airborne beryllium in the workplace.
(k)
Medical surveillance
—(1)
General.
(i) The employer must make medical surveillance required by this paragraph available at no cost to the employee, and at a reasonable time and place, to each employee:
(A) Who is or is reasonably expected to be exposed at or above the action level for more than 30 days per year;
(B) Who shows signs or symptoms of CBD or other beryllium-related health effects; or
(C) Whose most recent written medical opinion required by paragraph (k)(6) or (k)(7) recommends periodic medical surveillance.
(ii) The employer must ensure that all medical examinations and procedures required by this standard are performed by, or under the direction of, a licensed physician.
(2)
Frequency.
The employer must provide a medical examination:
(i) Within 30 days after determining that:
(A) An employee meets the criteria of paragraph (k)(1)(i)(A), unless the employee has received a medical examination, provided in accordance with this standard, within the last two years; or
(B) An employee meets the criteria of paragraph (k)(1)(i)(B) of this standard.
(ii) At least every two years thereafter for each employee who continues to meet the criteria of paragraph (k)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this standard.
(iii) At the termination of employment for each employee who meets any of the criteria of paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this standard at the time the employee's employment terminates, unless an examination has been provided in accordance with this standard during the six months prior to the date of termination.
(3)
Contents of examination.
(i) The employer must ensure that the PLHCP conducting the examination advises the employee of the risks and benefits of participating in the medical surveillance program and the employee's right to opt out of any or all parts of the medical examination.
(ii) The employer must ensure that the employee is offered a medical examination that includes:
(A) A medical and work history, with emphasis on past and present exposure to beryllium, smoking history, and any history of respiratory system dysfunction;
(B) A physical examination with emphasis on the respiratory system;
(C) A physical examination for skin rashes;
(D) Pulmonary function tests, performed in accordance with the guidelines established by the American Thoracic Society including forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV
1
);
(E) A standardized BeLPT or equivalent test, upon the first examination and at least every two years thereafter, unless the employee is confirmed positive. If the results of the BeLPT are other than normal, a follow-up BeLPT must be offered within 30 days, unless the employee has been confirmed positive. Samples must be analyzed in a laboratory certified under the College of American Pathologists/Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) guidelines to perform the BeLPT.
(F) A low dose computed tomography (LDCT) scan, when recommended by the PLHCP after considering the employee's history of exposure to beryllium along with other risk factors, such as smoking history, family medical history, sex, age, and presence of existing lung disease; and
(G) Any other test deemed appropriate by the PLHCP.
(4)
Information provided to the PLHCP.
The employer must ensure that the examining PLHCP (and the agreed-upon CBD diagnostic center, if an evaluation is required under paragraph (k)(7) of this standard) has a copy of this standard and must provide the following information, if known:
(i) A description of the employee's former and current duties that relate to the employee's exposure to beryllium;
(ii) The employee's former and current levels of airborne exposure;
(iii) A description of any personal protective clothing and equipment, including respirators, used by the employee, including when and for how long the employee has used that personal protective clothing and equipment; and
(iv) Information from records of employment-related medical examinations previously provided to the employee, currently within the control of the employer, after obtaining written consent from the employee.
(5)
Licensed physician's written medical report for the employee.
The employer must ensure that the employee receives a written medical report from the licensed physician within 45 days of the examination (including any follow-up BeLPT required under paragraph (k)(3)(ii)(E) of this standard) and that the PLHCP explains the results of the examination to the employee. The written medical report must contain:
(i) A statement indicating the results of the medical examination, including the licensed physician's opinion as to whether the employee has:
(A) Any detected medical condition, such as CBD or beryllium sensitization (
i.e.,
the employee is confirmed positive, as defined in paragraph (b) of this standard), that may place the employee at increased risk from further airborne exposure, and
(B) Any medical conditions related to airborne exposure that require further evaluation or treatment.
(ii) Any recommendations on:
(A) The employee's use of respirators, protective clothing, or equipment; or
(B) Limitations on the employee's airborne exposure to beryllium.
(iii) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD or if the licensed physician otherwise deems it appropriate, the written report must also contain a referral for an evaluation at a CBD diagnostic center.
(iv) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD the written report must also contain a recommendation for continued periodic medical surveillance.
(v) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD the written report must also contain a recommendation for medical removal from airborne exposure to beryllium, as described in paragraph (l).
(6)
Licensed physician's written medical opinion for the employer.
(i) The employer must obtain a written medical opinion from the licensed physician within 45 days of the medical examination (including any follow-up BeLPT required under paragraph (k)(3)(ii)(E) of this standard). The written medical opinion must contain only the following:
(A) The date of the examination;
(B) A statement that the examination has met the requirements of this standard;
(C) Any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators, protective clothing, or equipment; and
(D) A statement that the PLHCP has explained the results of the medical examination to the employee, including any tests conducted, any medical conditions related to airborne exposure that require further evaluation or treatment, and any special provisions for use of personal protective clothing or equipment;
(ii) If the employee provides written authorization, the written opinion must also contain any recommended limitations on the employee's airborne exposure to beryllium.
(iii) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD or if the licensed physician otherwise deems it appropriate, and the employee provides written authorization, the written opinion must also contain a referral for an evaluation at a CBD diagnostic center.
(iv) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD and the employee provides written authorization, the written opinion must also contain a recommendation for continued periodic medical surveillance.
(v) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD and the employee provides written authorization, the written opinion must also contain a recommendation for medical
removal from airborne exposure to beryllium, as described in paragraph (l).
(vi) The employer must ensure that each employee receives a copy of the written medical opinion described in paragraph (k)(6) of this standard within 45 days of any medical examination (including any follow-up BeLPT required under paragraph (k)(3)(ii)(E) of this standard) performed for that employee.
(7)
CBD diagnostic center.
(i) The employer must provide an evaluation at no cost to the employee at a CBD diagnostic center that is mutually agreed upon by the employer and the employee. The evaluation at the CBD diagnostic center must be scheduled within 30 days, and must occur within a reasonable time, of:
(A) The employer's receipt of a physician's written medical opinion to the employer that recommends referral to a CBD diagnostic center; or
(B) The employee presenting to the employer a physician's written medical report indicating that the employee has been confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD, or recommending referral to a CBD diagnostic center.
(ii) The employer must ensure that, as part of the evaluation, the employee is offered any tests deemed appropriate by the examining physician at the CBD diagnostic center, such as pulmonary function testing (as outlined by the American Thoracic Society criteria), bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), and transbronchial biopsy. If any of the tests deemed appropriate by the examining physician are not available at the CBD diagnostic center, they may be performed at another location that is mutually agreed upon by the employer and the employee.
(iii) The employer must ensure that the employee receives a written medical report from the CBD diagnostic center that contains all the information required in paragraphs (k)(5)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) of this standard and that the PLHCP explains the results of the examination to the employee within 30 days of the examination.
(iv) The employer must obtain a written medical opinion from the CBD diagnostic center within 30 days of the medical examination. The written medical opinion must contain only the information in paragraph (k)(6)(i) of this standard, as applicable, unless the employee provides written authorization to release additional information. If the employee provides written authorization, the written opinion must also contain the information from paragraphs (k)(6)(ii), (iv), and (v), if applicable.
(v) The employer must ensure that each employee receives a copy of the written medical opinion from the CBD diagnostic center described in paragraph (k)(7) of this standard within 30 days of any medical examination performed for that employee.
(vi) After an employee has received the initial clinical evaluation at a CBD diagnostic center described in paragraph (k)(7)(i) of this standard, the employee may choose to have any subsequent medical examinations for which the employee is eligible under paragraph (k) of this standard performed at a CBD diagnostic center mutually agreed upon by the employer and the employee, and the employer must provide such examinations at no cost to the employee.
(l)
Medical removal.
(1) An employee is eligible for medical removal, if the employee works in a job with airborne exposure at or above the action level and either:
(i) The employee provides the employer with:
(A) A written medical report indicating a confirmed positive finding or CBD diagnosis; or
(B) A written medical report recommending removal from airborne exposure to beryllium in accordance with paragraph (k)(5)(v) or (k)(7)(ii) of this standard; or
(ii) The employer receives a written medical opinion recommending removal from airborne exposure to beryllium in accordance with paragraph (k)(6)(v) or (k)(7)(iii) of this standard.
(2) If an employee is eligible for medical removal, the employer must provide the employee with the employee's choice of:
(i) Removal as described in paragraph (l)(3) of this standard; or
(ii) Remaining in a job with airborne exposure at or above the action level, provided that the employer provides, and ensures that the employee uses,
respiratory protection that complies with paragraph (g) of this standard whenever airborne exposures are at or above the action level.
(3) If the employee chooses removal:
(i) If a comparable job is available where airborne exposures to beryllium are below the action level, and the employee is qualified for that job or can be trained within one month, the employer must remove the employee to that job. The employer must maintain for six months from the time of removal the employee's base earnings, seniority, and other rights and benefits that existed at the time of removal.
(ii) If comparable work is not available, the employer must maintain the employee's base earnings, seniority, and other rights and benefits that existed at the time of removal for six months or until such time that comparable work described in paragraph (l)(3)(i) becomes available, whichever comes first.
(4) The employer's obligation to provide medical removal protection benefits to a removed employee shall be reduced to the extent that the employee receives compensation for earnings lost during the period of removal from a publicly or employer-funded compensation program, or receives income from another employer made possible by virtue of the employee's removal.
(m)
Communication of hazards
—(1)
General.
(i) Chemical manufacturers, importers, distributors, and employers must comply with all requirements of the HCS (29 CFR 1910.1200) for beryllium.
(ii) Employers must include beryllium in the hazard communication program established to comply with the HCS. Employers must ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of beryllium and to safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the requirements of the HCS (29 CFR 1910.1200) and paragraph (m)(4) of this standard.
(2)
Employee information and training.
(i) For each employee who has, or can reasonably be expected to have, airborne exposure to beryllium:
(A) The employer must provide information and training in accordance with the HCS (29 CFR 1910.1200(h));
(B) The employer must provide initial training to each employee by the time of initial assignment; and
(C) The employer must repeat the training required under this standard annually for each employee.
(ii) The employer must ensure that each employee who is, or can reasonably be expected to be, exposed to airborne beryllium can demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the following:
(A) The health hazards associated with exposure to beryllium, including the signs and symptoms of CBD;
(B) The written exposure control plan, with emphasis on the specific nature of operations that could result in airborne exposure, especially airborne exposure above the TWA PEL or STEL;
(C) The purpose, proper selection, fitting, proper use, and limitations of personal protective clothing and equipment, including respirators;
(D) Measures employees can take to protect themselves from exposure to beryllium;
(E) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (k) of this standard including risks and benefits of each test to be offered;
(F) The purpose and a description of the medical removal protection provided under paragraph (l) of this standard;
(G) The contents of the standard; and
(H) The employee's right of access to records under the Records Access standard (29 CFR 1910.1020).
(iii) When a workplace change (such as modification of equipment, tasks, or procedures) results in new or increased airborne exposure that exceeds, or can reasonably be expected to exceed, either the TWA PEL or the STEL, the employer must provide additional training to those employees affected by the change in airborne exposure.
(iv) The employer must make a copy of this standard and its appendices readily available at no cost to each employee and designated employee representative(s).
(n)
Recordkeeping
—(1)
Air monitoring data.
(i) The employer must make and
maintain a record of all exposure measurements taken to assess airborne exposure as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this standard.
(ii) This record must include at least the following information:
(A) The date of measurement for each sample taken;
(B) The task that is being monitored;
(C) The sampling and analytical methods used and evidence of their accuracy;
(D) The number, duration, and results of samples taken;
(E) The type of personal protective clothing and equipment, including respirators, worn by monitored employees at the time of monitoring; and
(F) The name and job classification of each employee represented by the monitoring, indicating which employees were actually monitored.
(iii) The employer must ensure that exposure records are maintained and made available in accordance with the Records Access standard (29 CFR 1910.1020).
(2)
Objective data.
(i) Where an employer uses objective data to satisfy the exposure assessment requirements under paragraph (d)(2) of this standard, the employer must make and maintain a record of the objective data relied upon.
(ii) This record must include at least the following information:
(A) The data relied upon;
(B) The beryllium-containing material in question;
(C) The source of the objective data;
(D) A description of the process, task, or activity on which the objective data were based; and
(E) Other data relevant to the process, task, activity, material, or airborne exposure on which the objective data were based.
(iii) The employer must ensure that objective data are maintained and made available in accordance with the Records Access standard (29 CFR 1910.1020).
(3)
Medical surveillance.
(i) The employer must make and maintain a record for each employee covered by medical surveillance under paragraph (k) of this standard.
(ii) The record must include the following information about each employee:
(A) Name and job classification;
(B) A copy of all licensed physicians' written medical opinions for each employee; and
(C) A copy of the information provided to the PLHCP as required by paragraph (k)(4) of this standard.
(iii) The employer must ensure that medical records are maintained and made available in accordance with the Records Access standard (29 CFR 1910.1020).
(4)
Training.
(i) At the completion of any training required by this standard, the employer must prepare a record that indicates the name and job classification of each employee trained, the date the training was completed, and the topic of the training.
(ii) This record must be maintained for three years after the completion of training.
(5)
Access to records.
Upon request, the employer must make all records maintained as a requirement of this standard available for examination and copying to the Assistant Secretary, the Director, each employee, and each employee's designated representative(s) in accordance the Records Access standard (29 CFR 1910.1020).
(6)
Transfer of records.
The employer must comply with the requirements involving transfer of records set forth in the Records Access standard (29 CFR 1910.1020).
(o)
Dates
—(1)
Effective date.
This standard shall become effective March 10, 2017.
(2)
Compliance dates.
(i) All obligations contained in paragraph (c) of this standard commence and become enforceable on March 12, 2018; and
(ii) All other obligations of this standard commence and become enforceable on September 30, 2020.
[82 FR 2751, Jan. 9, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 51400, Sept. 30, 2019; 85 FR 53997, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 11120, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1926.1126
Chromium (VI).
(a)
Scope.
(1) This standard applies to occupational exposures to chromium (VI) in all forms and compounds in construction, except:
(2) Exposures that occur in the application of pesticides regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency or another Federal government agency (
e.g.
, the treatment of wood with preservatives);
(3) Exposures to portland cement; or
(4) Where the employer has objective data demonstrating that a material containing chromium or a specific process, operation, or activity involving chromium cannot release dusts, fumes, or mists of chromium (VI) in concentrations at or above 0.5 µgm/m
3
as an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA) under any expected conditions of use.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply:
Action level
means a concentration of airborne chromium (VI) of 2.5 micrograms per cubic meter of air (2.5 µgm/m
3
) calculated as an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA).
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or designee.
Chromium (VI) [hexavalent chromium or Cr(VI)]
means chromium with a valence of positive six, in any form and in any compound.
Director
means the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designee.
Emergency
means any occurrence that results, or is likely to result, in an uncontrolled release of chromium (VI). If an incidental release of chromium (VI) can be controlled at the time of release by employees in the immediate release area, or by maintenance personnel, it is not an emergency.
Employee exposure
means the exposure to airborne chromium (VI) that would occur if the employee were not using a respirator.
High-efficiency particulate air [HEPA] filter
means a filter that is at least 99.97 percent efficient in removing mono-dispersed particles of 0.3 micrometers in diameter or larger.
Historical monitoring data
means data from chromium (VI) monitoring conducted prior to May 30, 2006, obtained during work operations conducted under workplace conditions closely resembling the processes, types of material, control methods, work practices, and environmental conditions in the employer's current operations.
Objective data
means information such as air monitoring data from industry-wide surveys or calculations based on the composition or chemical and physical properties of a substance demonstrating the employee exposure to chromium (VI) associated with a particular product or material or a specific process, operation, or activity. The data must reflect workplace conditions closely resembling the processes, types of material, control methods, work practices, and environmental conditions in the employer's current operations.
Physician or other licensed health care professional [PLHCP]
is an individual whose legally permitted scope of practice (
i.e.
, license, registration, or certification) allows him or her to independently provide or be delegated the responsibility to provide some or all of the particular health care services required by paragraph (i) of this section.
This section
means this § 1926.1126 chromium (VI) standard.
(c)
Permissible exposure limit (PEL).
The employer shall ensure that no employee is exposed to an airborne concentration of chromium (VI) in excess of 5 micrograms per cubic meter of air (5 µgm/m
3
), calculated as an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA).
(d)
Exposure determination
—(1)
General.
Each employer who has a workplace or work operation covered by this section shall determine the 8-hour TWA exposure for each employee exposed to chromium (VI). This determination shall be made in accordance with either paragraph (d)(2) or paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(2)
Scheduled monitoring option.
(i) The employer shall perform initial monitoring to determine the 8-hour TWA exposure for each employee on the basis of a sufficient number of personal breathing zone air samples to accurately characterize full shift exposure on each shift, for each job classification, in each work area. Where an employer does representative sampling instead of sampling all employees in order to meet this requirement, the
employer shall sample the employee(s) expected to have the highest chromium (VI) exposures.
(ii) If initial monitoring indicates that employee exposures are below the action level, the employer may discontinue monitoring for those employees whose exposures are represented by such monitoring.
(iii) If monitoring reveals employee exposures to be at or above the action level, the employer shall perform periodic monitoring at least every six months.
(iv) If monitoring reveals employee exposures to be above the PEL, the employer shall perform periodic monitoring at least every three months.
(v) If periodic monitoring indicates that employee exposures are below the action level, and the result is confirmed by the result of another monitoring taken at least seven days later, the employer may discontinue the monitoring for those employees whose exposures are represented by such monitoring.
(vi) The employer shall perform additional monitoring when there has been any change in the production process, raw materials, equipment, personnel, work practices, or control methods that may result in new or additional exposures to chromium (VI), or when the employer has any reason to believe that new or additional exposures have occurred.
(3)
Performance-oriented option.
The employer shall determine the 8-hour TWA exposure for each employee on the basis of any combination of air monitoring data, historical monitoring data, or objective data sufficient to accurately characterize employee exposure to chromium (VI).
(4)
Employee notification of determination results.
(i) Within 5 work days after making an exposure determination in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) or paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the employer shall individually notify each affected employee in writing of the results of that determination or post the results in an appropriate location accessible to all affected employees.
(ii) Whenever the exposure determination indicates that employee exposure is above the PEL, the employer shall describe in the written notification the corrective action being taken to reduce employee exposure to or below the PEL.
(5)
Accuracy of measurement.
Where air monitoring is performed to comply with the requirements of this section, the employer shall use a method of monitoring and analysis that can measure chromium (VI) to within an accuracy of plus or minus 25 percent (±25%) and can produce accurate measurements to within a statistical confidence level of 95 percent for airborne concentrations at or above the action level.
(6)
Observation of monitoring.
(i) Where air monitoring is performed to comply with the requirements of this section, the employer shall provide affected employees or their designated representatives an opportunity to observe any monitoring of employee exposure to chromium (VI).
(ii) When observation of monitoring requires entry into an area where the use of protective clothing or equipment is required, the employer shall provide the observer with clothing and equipment and shall assure that the observer uses such clothing and equipment and complies with all other applicable safety and health procedures.
(e)
Methods of compliance
—(1)
Engineering and work practice controls.
(i) Except as permitted in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, the employer shall use engineering and work practice controls to reduce and maintain employee exposure to chromium (VI) to or below the PEL unless the employer can demonstrate that such controls are not feasible. Wherever feasible engineering and work practice controls are not sufficient to reduce employee exposure to or below the PEL, the employer shall use them to reduce employee exposure to the lowest levels achievable, and shall supplement them by the use of respiratory protection that complies with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) Where the employer can demonstrate that a process or task does not result in any employee exposure to chromium (VI) above the PEL for 30 or more days per year (12 consecutive months), the requirement to implement engineering and work practice
controls to achieve the PEL does not apply to that process or task.
(2)
Prohibition of rotation.
The employer shall not rotate employees to different jobs to achieve compliance with the PEL.
(f)
Respiratory protection
—(1)
General.
Where respiratory protection is required by this section, the employer must provide each employee an appropriate respirator that complies with the requirements of this paragraph. Respiratory protection is required during:
(i) Periods necessary to install or implement feasible engineering and work practice controls;
(ii) Work operations, such as maintenance and repair activities, for which engineering and work practice controls are not feasible;
(iii) Work operations for which an employer has implemented all feasible engineering and work practice controls and such controls are not sufficient to reduce exposures to or below the PEL;
(iv) Work operations where employees are exposed above the PEL for fewer than 30 days per year, and the employer has elected not to implement engineering and work practice controls to achieve the PEL; or
(v) Emergencies.
(2)
Respiratory protection program.
Where respirator use is required by this section, the employer shall institute a respiratory protection program in accordance with § 1910.134, which covers each employee required to use a respirator.
(g)
Protective work clothing and equipment
—(1)
Provision and use.
Where a hazard is present or is likely to be present from skin or eye contact with chromium (VI), the employer shall provide appropriate personal protective clothing and equipment at no cost to employees, and shall ensure that employees use such clothing and equipment.
(2)
Removal and storage.
(i) The employer shall ensure that employees remove all protective clothing and equipment contaminated with chromium (VI) at the end of the work shift or at the completion of their tasks involving chromium (VI) exposure, whichever comes first.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that no employee removes chromium (VI)-contaminated protective clothing or equipment from the workplace, except for those employees whose job it is to launder, clean, maintain, or dispose of such clothing or equipment.
(iii) When contaminated protective clothing or equipment is removed for laundering, cleaning, maintenance, or disposal, the employer shall ensure that it is stored and transported in sealed, impermeable bags or other closed, impermeable containers.
(iv) The employer shall ensure that bags or containers of contaminated protective clothing or equipment that are removed from change rooms for laundering, cleaning, maintenance, or disposal shall be labeled in accordance with the requirements of the Hazard Communication Standard, § 1910.1200.
(3)
Cleaning and replacement.
(i) The employer shall clean, launder, repair and replace all protective clothing and equipment required by this section as needed to maintain its effectiveness.
(ii) The employer shall prohibit the removal of chromium (VI) from protective clothing and equipment by blowing, shaking, or any other means that disperses chromium (VI) into the air or onto an employee's body.
(iii) The employer shall inform any person who launders or cleans protective clothing or equipment contaminated with chromium (VI) of the potentially harmful effects of exposure to chromium (VI) and that the clothing and equipment should be laundered or cleaned in a manner that minimizes skin or eye contact with chromium (VI) and effectively prevents the release of airborne chromium (VI) in excess of the PEL.
(h)
Hygiene areas and practices
—(1)
General.
Where protective clothing and equipment is required, the employer shall provide change rooms in conformance with 29 CFR 1926.51 Where skin contact with chromium (VI) occurs, the employer shall provide washing facilities in conformance with 29 CFR 1926.51. Eating and drinking areas provided by the employer shall also be in conformance with § 1926.51.
(2)
Change rooms.
The employer shall assure that change rooms are equipped
with separate storage facilities for protective clothing and equipment and for street clothes, and that these facilities prevent cross-contamination.
(3)
Washing facilities.
(i) The employer shall provide readily accessible washing facilities capable of removing chromium (VI) from the skin, and shall ensure that affected employees use these facilities when necessary.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that employees who have skin contact with chromium (VI) wash their hands and faces at the end of the work shift and prior to eating, drinking, smoking, chewing tobacco or gum, applying cosmetics, or using the toilet.
(4)
Eating and drinking areas.
(i) Whenever the employer allows employees to consume food or beverages at a worksite where chromium (VI) is present, the employer shall ensure that eating and drinking areas and surfaces are maintained as free as practicable of chromium (VI).
(ii) The employer shall ensure that employees do not enter eating and drinking areas with protective work clothing or equipment unless surface chromium (VI) has been removed from the clothing and equipment by methods that do not disperse chromium (VI) into the air or onto an employee's body.
(5)
Prohibited activities.
The employer shall ensure that employees do not eat, drink, smoke, chew tobacco or gum, or apply cosmetics in areas where skin or eye contact with chromium (VI) occurs; or carry the products associated with these activities, or store such products in these areas.
(i)
Medical surveillance
—(1)
General.
(i) The employer shall make medical surveillance available at no cost to the employee, and at a reasonable time and place, for all employees:
(A) Who are or may be occupationally exposed to chromium (VI) at or above the action level for 30 or more days a year;
(B) Experiencing signs or symptoms of the adverse health effects associated with chromium (VI) exposure; or
(C) Exposed in an emergency.
(ii) The employer shall assure that all medical examinations and procedures required by this section are performed by or under the supervision of a PLHCP.
(2)
Frequency.
The employer shall provide a medical examination:
(i) Within 30 days after initial assignment, unless the employee has received a chromium (VI) related medical examination that meets the requirements of this paragraph within the last twelve months;
(ii) Annually;
(iii) Within 30 days after a PLHCP's written medical opinion recommends an additional examination;
(iv) Whenever an employee shows signs or symptoms of the adverse health effects associated with chromium (VI) exposure;
(v) Within 30 days after exposure during an emergency which results in an uncontrolled release of chromium (VI); or
(vi) At the termination of employment, unless the last examination that satisfied the requirements of paragraph (i) of this section was less than six months prior to the date of termination.
(3)
Contents of examination.
A medical examination consists of:
(i) A medical and work history, with emphasis on: past, present, and anticipated future exposure to chromium (VI); any history of respiratory system dysfunction; any history of asthma, dermatitis, skin ulceration, or nasal septum perforation; and smoking status and history;
(ii) A physical examination of the skin and respiratory tract; and
(iii) Any additional tests deemed appropriate by the examining PLHCP.
(4)
Information provided to the PLHCP.
The employer shall ensure that the examining PLHCP has a copy of this standard, and shall provide the following information:
(i) A description of the affected employee's former, current, and anticipated duties as they relate to the employee's occupational exposure to chromium (VI);
(ii) The employee's former, current, and anticipated levels of occupational exposure to chromium (VI);
(iii) A description of any personal protective equipment used or to be used by the employee, including when
and for how long the employee has used that equipment; and
(iv) Information from records of employment-related medical examinations previously provided to the affected employee, currently within the control of the employer.
(5)
PLHCP's written medical opinion.
(i) The employer shall obtain a written medical opinion from the PLHCP, within 30 days for each medical examination performed on each employee, which contains:
(A) The PLHCP's opinion as to whether the employee has any detected medical condition(s) that would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from further exposure to chromium (VI);
(B) Any recommended limitations upon the employee's exposure to chromium (VI) or upon the use of personal protective equipment such as respirators;
(C) A statement that the PLHCP has explained to the employee the results of the medical examination, including any medical conditions related to chromium (VI) exposure that require further evaluation or treatment, and any special provisions for use of protective clothing or equipment.
(ii) The PLHCP shall not reveal to the employer specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure to chromium (VI).
(iii) The employer shall provide a copy of the PLHCP's written medical opinion to the examined employee within two weeks after receiving it.
(j)
Communication of chromium (VI) hazards to employees
—(1)
Hazard communication.
The employer shall include chromium (VI) in the program established to comply with the Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) (§ 1910.1200). The employer shall ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of chromium and safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the provisions of § 1910.1200 and paragraph (j)(2) of this section. The employer shall provide information on at least the following hazards: Cancer; eye irritation; and skin sensitization.
(2)
Employee information and training.
(i) The employer shall ensure that each employee can demonstrate knowledge of at least the following:
(A) The contents of this section; and
(B) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (i) of this section.
(ii) The employer shall make a copy of this section readily available without cost to all affected employees.
(k)
Recordkeeping
—(1)
Air monitoring data.
(i) The employer shall maintain an accurate record of all air monitoring conducted to comply with the requirements of this section.
(ii) This record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The date of measurement for each sample taken;
(B) The operation involving exposure to chromium (VI) that is being monitored;
(C) Sampling and analytical methods used and evidence of their accuracy;
(D) Number, duration, and the results of samples taken;
(E) Type of personal protective equipment, such as respirators worn; and
(F) Name and job classification of all employees represented by the monitoring, indicating which employees were actually monitored.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that exposure records are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(2)
Historical monitoring data.
(i) Where the employer has relied on historical monitoring data to determine exposure to chromium (VI), the employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record of the historical monitoring data relied upon.
(ii) The record shall include information that reflects the following conditions:
(A) The data were collected using methods that meet the accuracy requirements of paragraph (d)(5) of this section;
(B) The processes and work practices that were in use when the historical monitoring data were obtained are essentially the same as those to be used during the job for which exposure is being determined;
(C) The characteristics of the chromium (VI) containing material being handled when the historical monitoring data were obtained are the same
as those on the job for which exposure is being determined;
(D) Environmental conditions prevailing when the historical monitoring data were obtained are the same as those on the job for which exposure is being determined; and
(E) Other data relevant to the operations, materials, processing, or employee exposures covered by the exception.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that historical exposure records are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(3)
Objective data.
(i) The employer shall maintain an accurate record of all objective data relied upon to comply with the requirements of this section.
(ii) This record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The chromium containing material in question;
(B) The source of the objective data;
(C) The testing protocol and results of testing, or analysis of the material for the release of chromium (VI);
(D) A description of the process, operation, or activity and how the data support the determination; and
(E) Other data relevant to the process, operation, activity, material, or employee exposures.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that objective data are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(4)
Medical surveillance.
(i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee covered by medical surveillance under paragraph (i) of this section.
(ii) The record shall include the following information about the employee:
(A) Name;
(B) A copy of the PLHCP's written opinions;
(C) A copy of the information provided to the PLHCP as required by paragraph (i)(4) of this section.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that medical records are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(l)
Dates.
(1) For employers with 20 or more employees, all obligations of this section, except engineering controls required by paragraph (e) of this section, commence November 27, 2006.
(2) For employers with 19 or fewer employees, all obligations of this section, except engineering controls required by paragraph (e) of this section, commence May 30, 2007.
(3) For all employers, engineering controls required by paragraph (e) of this section shall be implemented no later than May 31, 2010.
[71 FR 10382, Feb. 28, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 75589, Dec. 12, 2008; 75 FR 12686, Mar. 17, 2010; 77 FR 17895, Mar. 26, 2012]
§ 1926.1127
Cadmium.
(a)
Scope.
This standard applies to all occupational exposures to cadmium and cadmium compounds, in all forms, in all construction work where an employee may potentially be exposed to cadmium. Construction work is defined as work involving construction, alteration and/or repair, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Wrecking, demolition or salvage of structures where cadmium or materials containing cadmium are present;
(2) Use of cadmium containing-paints and cutting, brazing, burning, grinding or welding on surfaces that were painted with cadmium-containing paints;
(3) Construction, alteration, repair, maintenance, or renovation of structures, substrates, or portions thereof, that contain cadmium, or materials containing cadmium;
(4) Cadmium welding; cutting and welding cadmium-plated steel; brazing or welding with cadmium alloys;
(5) Installation of products containing cadmium;
(6) Electrical grounding with cadmium welding, or electrical work using cadmium-coated conduit;
(7) Maintaining or retrofitting cadmium-coated equipment;
(8) Cadmium contamination/emergency cleanup; and
(9) Transportation, disposal, storage, or containment of cadmium or materials containing cadmium on the site or location at which construction activities are performed.
(b)
Definitions.
Action level
(AL) is defined as an airborne concentration of cadmium of 2.5 micrograms per cubic meter of air (2.5
µg/m
3
), calculated as an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA).
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or designee.
Authorized person
means any person authorized by the employer and required by work duties to be present in regulated areas or any person authorized by the OSH Act or regulations issued under it to be in regulated areas.
Competent person,
in accordance with 29 CFR 1926.32(f), means a person designated by the employer to act on the employer's behalf who is capable of identifying existing and potential cadmium hazards in the workplace and the proper methods to control them in order to protect workers, and has the authority necessary to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate or control such hazards. The duties of a competent person include at least the following: Determining prior to the performance of work whether cadmium is present in the workplace; establishing, where necessary, regulated areas and assuring that access to and from those areas is limited to authorized employees; assuring the adequacy of any employee exposure monitoring required by this standard; assuring that all employees exposed to air cadmium levels above the PEL wear appropriate personal protective equipment and are trained in the use of appropriate methods of exposure control; assuring that proper hygiene facilities are provided and that workers are trained to use those facilities; and assuring that the engineering controls required by this standard are implemented, maintained in proper operating condition, and functioning properly.
Director
means the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designee.
Employee exposure
and similar language referring to the air cadmium level to which an employee is exposed means the exposure to airborne cadmium that would occur if the employee were not using respiratory protective equipment.
Final medical determination
is the written medical opinion of the employee's health status by the examining physician under paragraphs (l)(3)-(12) of this section or, if multiple physician review under paragraph (l)(13) of this section or the alternative physician determination under paragraph (l)(14) of this section is invoked, it is the final, written medical finding, recommendation or determination that emerges from that process.
High-efficiency Particulate Air [HEPA] filter
means a filter capable of trapping and retaining at least 99.97 percent of mono-dispersed particles of 0.3 micrometers in diameter.
Regulated area
means an area demarcated by the employer where an employee's exposure to airborne concentrations of cadmium exceeds, or can reasonably be expected to exceed the permissible exposure limit (PEL).
This section
means this cadmium standard.
(c)
Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL).
The employer shall assure that no employee is exposed to an airborne concentration of cadmium in excess of five micrograms per cubic meter of air (5 µg/m
3
), calculated as an eight-hour time-weighted average exposure (TWA).
(d)
Exposure Monitoring
—(1)
General.
(i) Prior to the performance of any construction work where employees may be potentially exposed to cadmium, the employer shall establish the applicability of this standard by determining whether cadmium is present in the workplace and whether there is the possibility that employee exposures will be at or above the action level. The employer shall designate a competent person who shall make this determination. Investigation and material testing techniques shall be used, as appropriate, in the determination. Investigation shall include a review of relevant plans, past reports, Safety Data Sheets (SDS), and other available records, and consultations with the property owner and discussions with appropriate individuals and agencies.
(ii) Where cadmium has been determined to be present in the workplace, and it has been determined that there is a possibility the employee's exposure will be at or above the action level, the
competent person shall identify employees potentially exposed to cadmium at or above the action level.
(iii) Determinations of employee exposure shall be made from breathing-zone air samples that reflect the monitored employee's regular, daily 8-hour TWA exposure to cadmium.
(iv) Eight-hour TWA exposures shall be determined for each employee on the basis of one or more personal breathing-zone air samples reflecting full shift exposure on each shift, for each job classification, in each work area. Where several employees perform the same job tasks, in the same job classification, on the same shift, in the same work area, and the length, duration, and level of cadmium exposures are similar, an employer may sample a representative fraction of the employees instead of all employees in order to meet this requirement. In representative sampling, the employer shall sample the employee(s) expected to have the highest cadmium exposures.
(2)
Specific.
(i) Initial monitoring. Except as provided for in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, where a determination conducted under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section shows the possibility of employee exposure to cadmium at or above the action level, the employer shall conduct exposure monitoring as soon as practicable that is representative of the exposure for each employee in the workplace who is or may be exposed to cadmium at or above the action level.
(ii) In addition, if the employee periodically performs tasks that may expose the employee to a higher concentration of airborne cadmium, the employee shall be monitored while performing those tasks.
(iii) Where the employer has objective data, as defined in paragraph (n)(2) of this section, demonstrating that employee exposure to cadmium will not exceed airborne concentrations at or above the action level under the expected conditions of processing, use, or handling, the employer may rely upon such data instead of implementing initial monitoring.
(iv) Where a determination conducted under paragraphs (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section is made that a potentially exposed employee is not exposed to airborne concentrations of cadmium at or above the action level, the employer shall make a written record of such determination. The record shall include at least the monitoring data developed under paragraphs (d)(2)(i)-(iii) of this section, where applicable, and shall also include the date of determination, and the name of each employee.
(3)
Monitoring frequency (periodic monitoring).
(i) If the initial monitoring or periodic monitoring reveals employee exposures to be at or above the action level, the employer shall monitor at a frequency and pattern needed to assure that the monitoring results reflect with reasonable accuracy the employee's typical exposure levels, given the variability in the tasks performed, work practices, and environmental conditions on the job site, and to assure the adequacy of respiratory selection and the effectiveness of engineering and work practice controls.
(ii) If the initial monitoring or the periodic monitoring indicates that employee exposures are below the action level and that result is confirmed by the results of another monitoring taken at least seven days later, the employer may discontinue the monitoring for those employees whose exposures are represented by such monitoring.
(4)
Additional monitoring.
The employer also shall institute the exposure monitoring required under paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(3) of this section whenever there has been a change in the raw materials, equipment, personnel, work practices, or finished products that may result in additional employees being exposed to cadmium at or above the action level or in employees already exposed to cadmium at or above the action level being exposed above the PEL, or whenever the employer or competent person has any reason to suspect that any other change might result in such further exposure.
(5)
Employee notification of monitoring results.
(i) The employer must, as soon as possible but no later than 5 working days after the receipt of the results of any monitoring performed under this section, notify each affected employee of these results either individually in writing or by posting the results in an
appropriate location that is accessible to employees.
(ii) Wherever monitoring results indicate that employee exposure exceeds the PEL, the employer shall include in the written notice a statement that the PEL has been exceeded and a description of the corrective action being taken by the employer to reduce employee exposure to or below the PEL.
(6)
Accuracy of measurement.
The employer shall use a method of monitoring and analysis that has an accuracy of not less than plus or minus 25 percent (±25%), with a confidence level of 95 percent, for airborne concentrations of cadmium at or above the action level and the permissible exposure limit.
(e)
Regulated areas
—(1)
Establishment.
The employer shall establish a regulated area wherever an employee's exposure to airborne concentrations of cadmium is, or can reasonably be expected to be in excess of the permissible exposure limit (PEL).
(2)
Demarcation.
Regulated areas shall be demarcated from the rest of the workplace in any manner that adequately establishes and alerts employees of the boundaries of the regulated area, including employees who are or may be incidentally in the regulated areas, and that protects persons outside the area from exposure to airborne concentrations of cadmium in excess of the PEL.
(3)
Access.
Access to regulated areas shall be limited to authorized persons.
(4)
Provision of respirators.
Each person entering a regulated area shall be supplied with and required to use a respirator, selected in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(5)
Prohibited activities.
The employer shall assure that employees do not eat, drink, smoke, chew tobacco or gum, or apply cosmetics in regulated areas, or carry the products associated with any of these activities into regulated areas or store such products in those areas.
(f)
Methods of compliance
—(1)
Compliance hierarchy.
(i) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the employer shall implement engineering and work practice controls to reduce and maintain employee exposure to cadmium at or below the PEL, except to the extent that the employer can demonstrate that such controls are not feasible.
(ii) The requirement to implement engineering controls to achieve the PEL does not apply where the employer demonstrates the following:
(A) The employee is only intermittently exposed; and
(B) The employee is not exposed above the PEL on 30 or more days per year (12 consecutive months).
(iii) Wherever engineering and work practice controls are not sufficient to reduce employee exposure to or below the PEL, the employer nonetheless shall implement such controls to reduce exposures to the lowest levels achievable. The employer shall supplement such controls with respiratory protection that complies with the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section and the PEL.
(iv) The employer shall not use employee rotation as a method of compliance.
(2)
Specific operations
—(i)
Abrasive blasting.
Abrasive blasting on cadmium or cadmium-containing materials shall be conducted in a manner that will provide adequate protection.
(ii)
Heating cadmium and cadmium-containing materials.
Welding, cutting, and other forms of heating of cadmium or cadmium-containing materials shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1926.353 and 29 CFR 1926.354, where applicable.
(3)
Prohibitions.
(i) High speed abrasive disc saws and similar abrasive power equipment shall not be used for work on cadmium or cadmium-containing materials unless they are equipped with appropriate engineering controls to minimize emissions, if the exposure levels are above the PEL.
(ii) Materials containing cadmium shall not be applied by spray methods, if exposures are above the PEL, unless employees are protected with supplied-air respirators with full facepiece, hood, helmet, suit, operated in positive pressure mode and measures are instituted to limit overspray and prevent contamination of adjacent areas.
(4)
Mechanical ventilation.
(i) When ventilation is used to control exposure, measurements that demonstrate the effectiveness of the system in controlling exposure, such as capture velocity,
duct velocity, or static pressure shall be made as necessary to maintain its effectiveness.
(ii) Measurements of the system's effectiveness in controlling exposure shall be made as necessary within five working days of any change in production, process, or control that might result in a significant increase in employee exposure to cadmium.
(iii) Recirculation of air. If air from exhaust ventilation is recirculated into the workplace, the system shall have a high efficiency filter and be monitored to assure effectiveness.
(iv) Procedures shall be developed and implemented to minimize employee exposure to cadmium when maintenance of ventilation systems and changing of filters is being conducted.
(5)
Compliance program.
(i) Where employee exposure to cadmium exceeds the PEL and the employer is required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section to implement controls to comply with the PEL, prior to the commencement of the job the employer shall establish and implement a written compliance program to reduce employee exposure to or below the PEL. To the extent that engineering and work practice controls cannot reduce exposures to or below the PEL, the employer shall include in the written compliance program the use of appropriate respiratory protection to achieve compliance with the PEL.
(ii) Written compliance programs shall be reviewed and updated as often and as promptly as necessary to reflect significant changes in the employer's compliance status or significant changes in the lowest air cadmium level that is technologically feasible.
(iii) A competent person shall review the comprehensive compliance program initially and after each change.
(iv) Written compliance programs shall be provided upon request for examination and copying to the Assistant Secretary, the Director, affected employees, and designated employee representatives.
(g)
Respirator protection
—(1)
General.
For employees who use respirators required by this section, the employer must provide each employee an appropriate respirator that complies with the requirements of this paragraph. Respirators must be used during:
(i) Periods necessary to install or implement feasible engineering and work-practice controls when employee exposures exceed the PEL.
(ii) Maintenance and repair activities, and brief or intermittent work operations, for which employee exposures exceed the PEL and engineering and work-practice controls are not feasible or are not required.
(iii) Work operations in the regulated areas specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(iv) Work operations for which the employer has implemented all feasible engineering and work-practice controls, and such controls are not sufficient to reduce employee exposures to or below the PEL.
(v) Work operations for which an employee, who is exposed to cadmium at or above the action level, requests a respirator.
(vi) Work operations for which engineering controls are not required by paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section to reduce employee exposures that exceed the PEL.
(vii) Emergencies.
(2)
Respirator program.
(i) The employer must implement a respiratory protection program in accordance with § 1910.134 (b) through (d) (except (d)(1)(iii)), and (f) through (m), which covers each employee required by this section to use a respirator.
(ii) If an employee exhibits breathing difficulty during fit testing or respirator use, the employer must provide the employee with a medical examination in accordance with paragraph (l)(6)(ii) of this section to determine if the employee can use a respirator while performing the required duties.
(iii) No employee must use a respirator when, based on their most recent medical examination, the examining physician determines that the employee will be unable to continue to function normally while using a respirator. If the physician determines the employee must be limited in, or removed from, their current job because of the employee's inability to use a respirator, the job limitation or removal must be conducted in accordance with
paragraphs (l) (11) and (12) of this section.
(3)
Respirator selection.
(i) Employers must:
(A) Select, and provide to employees, the appropriate respirators specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A) of 29 CFR 1910.134.
(B) Provide employees with full facepiece respirators when they experience eye irritation.
(C) Provide HEPA filters for powered and non-powered air-purifying respirators.
(ii) The employer must provide a powered air-purifying respirator instead of a negative-pressure respirator when an employee entitled to a respirator chooses to use this type of respirator and such a respirator will provide adequate protection to the employee.
(h)
Emergency situations.
The employer shall develop and implement a written plan for dealing with emergency situations involving substantial releases of airborne cadmium. The plan shall include provisions for the use of appropriate respirators and personal protective equipment. In addition, employees not essential to correcting the emergency situation shall be restricted from the area and normal operations halted in that area until the emergency is abated.
(i)
Protective work clothing and equipment
—(1)
Provision and use.
If an employee is exposed to airborne cadmium above the PEL or where skin or eye irritation is associated with cadmium exposure at any level, the employer shall provide at no cost to the employee, and assure that the employee uses, appropriate protective work clothing and equipment that prevents contamination of the employee and the employee's garments. Protective work clothing and equipment includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Coveralls or similar full-body work clothing;
(ii) Gloves, head coverings, and boots or foot coverings; and
(iii) Face shields, vented goggles, or other appropriate protective equipment that complies with 29 CFR 1910.133.
(2)
Removal and storage.
(i) The employer shall assure that employees remove all protective clothing and equipment contaminated with cadmium at the completion of the work shift and do so only in change rooms provided in accordance with paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(ii) The employer shall assure that no employee takes cadmium-contaminated protective clothing or equipment from the workplace, except for employees authorized to do so for purposes of laundering, cleaning, maintaining, or disposing of cadmium-contaminated protective clothing and equipment at an appropriate location or facility away from the workplace.
(iii) The employer shall assure that contaminated protective clothing and equipment, when removed for laundering, cleaning, maintenance, or disposal, is placed and stored in sealed, impermeable bags or other closed, impermeable containers that are designed to prevent dispersion of cadmium dust.
(iv) The employer shall ensure that containers of contaminated protective clothing and equipment that are to be taken out of the change rooms or the workplace for laundering, cleaning, maintenance or disposal shall bear labels in accordance with paragraph (m)(3)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Cleaning, replacement, and disposal.
(i) The employer shall provide the protective clothing and equipment required by paragraph (i)(1) of this section in a clean and dry condition as often as necessary to maintain its effectiveness, but in any event at least weekly. The employer is responsible for cleaning and laundering the protective clothing and equipment required by this paragraph to maintain its effectiveness and is also responsible for disposing of such clothing and equipment.
(ii) The employer also is responsible for repairing or replacing required protective clothing and equipment as needed to maintain its effectiveness. When rips or tears are detected while an employee is working they shall be immediately mended, or the worksuit shall be immediately replaced.
(iii) The employer shall prohibit the removal of cadmium from protective clothing and equipment by blowing, shaking, or any other means that disperses cadmium into the air.
(iv) The employer shall assure that any laundering of contaminated clothing or cleaning of contaminated equipment in the workplace is done in a manner that prevents the release of airborne cadmium in excess of the permissible exposure limit prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(v) The employer shall inform any person who launders or cleans protective clothing or equipment contaminated with cadmium of the potentially harmful effects of exposure to cadmium, and that the clothing and equipment should be laundered or cleaned in a manner to effectively prevent the release of airborne cadmium in excess of the PEL.
(j)
Hygiene areas and practices
—(1)
General.
For employees whose airborne exposure to cadmium is above the PEL, the employer shall provide clean change rooms, handwashing facilities, showers, and lunchroom facilities that comply with 29 CFR 1926.51.
(2)
Change rooms.
The employer shall assure that change rooms are equipped with separate storage facilities for street clothes and for protective clothing and equipment, which are designed to prevent dispersion of cadmium and contamination of the employee's street clothes.
(3)
Showers and handwashing facilities.
(i) The employer shall assure that employees whose airborne exposure to cadmium is above the PEL shower during the end of the work shift.
(ii) The employer shall assure that employees who are exposed to cadmium above the PEL wash their hands and faces prior to eating, drinking, smoking, chewing tobacco or gum, or applying cosmetics.
(4)
Lunchroom facilities.
(i) The employer shall assure that the lunchroom facilities are readily accessible to employees, that tables for eating are maintained free of cadmium, and that no employee in a lunchroom facility is exposed at any time to cadmium at or above a concentration of 2.5 µg/m
3
.
(ii) The employer shall assure that employees do not enter lunchroom facilities with protective work clothing or equipment unless surface cadmium has been removed from the clothing and equipment by HEPA vacuuming or some other method that removes cadmium dust without dispersing it.
(k)
Housekeeping.
(1) All surfaces shall be maintained as free as practicable of accumulations of cadmium.
(2) All spills and sudden releases of material containing cadmium shall be cleaned up as soon as possible.
(3) Surfaces contaminated with cadmium shall, wherever possible, be cleaned by vacuuming or other methods that minimize the likelihood of cadmium becoming airborne.
(4) HEPA-filtered vacuuming equipment or equally effective filtration methods shall be used for vacuuming. The equipment shall be used and emptied in a manner that minimizes the reentry of cadmium into the workplace.
(5) Shoveling, dry or wet sweeping, and brushing may be used only where vacuuming or other methods that minimize the likelihood of cadmium becoming airborne have been tried and found not to be effective.
(6) Compressed air shall not be used to remove cadmium from any surface unless the compressed air is used in conjunction with a ventilation system designed to capture the dust cloud created by the compressed air.
(7) Waste, scrap, debris, bags, and containers, personal protective equipment and clothing contaminated with cadmium and consigned for disposal shall be collected and disposed of in sealed impermeable bags or other closed, impermeable containers. These bags and containers shall be labeled in accordance with paragraph (m)(3)(ii) of this section.
(l)
Medical Surveillance
—(1)
General
—(i)
Scope
—(A)
Currently exposed
—The employer shall institute a medical surveillance program for all employees who are or may be exposed at or above the action level and all employees who perform the following tasks, operations or jobs: Electrical grounding with cadmium welding; cutting, brazing, burning, grinding or welding on surfaces that were painted with cadmium-containing paints; electrical work using cadmium-coated conduit; use of cadmium containing paints; cutting and welding cadmium-plated steel; brazing or welding with cadmium alloys; fusing
of reinforced steel by cadmium welding; maintaining or retrofitting cadmium-coated equipment; and, wrecking and demolition where cadmium is present. A medical surveillance program will not be required if the employer demonstrates that the employee:
(
1
) Is not currently exposed by the employer to airborne concentrations of cadmium at or above the action level on 30 or more days per year (twelve consecutive months); and,
(
2
) Is not currently exposed by the employer in those tasks on 30 or more days per year (twelve consecutive months).
(B)
Previously exposed.
The employer shall also institute a medical surveillance program for all employees who might previously have been exposed to cadmium by the employer prior to the effective date of this standard in tasks specified under paragraph (l)(1)(i)(A) of this section, unless the employer demonstrates that the employee did not in the years prior to the effective date of this section work in those tasks for the employer with exposure to cadmium for an aggregated total of more than 12 months.
(ii) To determine an employee's fitness for using a respirator, the employer shall provide the limited medical examination specified in paragraph (l)(6) of this section.
(iii) The employer shall assure that all medical examinations and procedures required by this section are performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician, who has read and is familiar with the health effects section of appendix A to this section, the regulatory text of this section, the protocol for sample handling and lab selection in appendix F to this section, and the questionnaire of appendix D to this section.
(iv) The employer shall provide the medical surveillance required by this section, including multiple physician review under paragraph (l)(13) of this section without cost to employees, and at a time and place that is reasonable and convenient to employees.
(v) The employer shall assure that the collecting and handling of biological samples of cadmium in urine (CdU), cadmium in blood (CdB), and beta-2 microglobulin in urine (β
2
-M) taken from employees under this section is done in a manner that assures their reliability and that analysis of biological samples of cadmium in urine (CdU), cadmium in blood (CdB), and beta-2 microglobulin in urine (β
2
-M) taken from employees under this section is performed in laboratories with demonstrated proficiency to perform the particular analysis. (See appendix F to this section.)
(2)
Initial Examination.
(i) For employees covered by medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, the employer shall provide an initial medical examination. The examination shall be provided to those employees within 30 days after initial assignment to a job with exposure to cadmium or no later than 90 days after the effective date of this section, whichever date is later.
(ii) The initial medical examination shall include:
(A) A detailed medical and work history, with emphasis on: Past, present, and anticipated future exposure to cadmium; any history of renal, cardiovascular, respiratory, hematopoietic, reproductive, and/or musculo-skeletal system dysfunction; current usage of medication with potential nephrotoxic side-effects; and smoking history and current status; and
(B) Biological monitoring that includes the following tests:
(
1
) Cadmium in urine (CdU), standardized to grams of creatinine (g/Cr);
(
2
) Beta-2 microglobulin in urine (β
2
-M), standardized to grams of creatinine (g/Cr), with pH specified, as described in appendix F to this section; and
(
3
) Cadmium in blood (CdB), standardized to liters of whole blood (lwb).
(iii) Recent Examination: An initial examination is not required to be provided if adequate records show that the employee has been examined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section within the past 12 months. In that case, such records shall be maintained as part of the employee's medical record and the prior exam shall be treated as if it were an initial examination for the purposes of paragraphs (l)(3) and (4) of this section.
(3)
Actions triggered by initial biological monitoring.
(i) If the results of the biological monitoring tests in the initial examination show the employee's CdU level to be at or below 3 µg/g Cr, β
2
-M level to be at or below 300 µg/g Cr and CdB level to be at or below 5 µg/lwb, then:
(A) For employees who are subject to medical surveillance under paragraphs (l)(1)(i)(A) of this section because of current or anticipated exposure to cadmium, the employer shall provide the minimum level of periodic medical surveillance in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section; and
(B) For employees who are subject to medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(1)(i)(B) of this section because of prior but not current exposure, the employer shall provide biological monitoring for CdU, B
2
-M, and CdB one year after the initial biological monitoring and then the employer shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (l)(4)(vi) of this section.
(ii) For all employees who are subject to medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, if the results of the initial biological monitoring tests show the level of CdU to exceed 3 µg/g Cr, the level of β
2
-M to be in excess of 300 µg/g Cr, or the level of CdB to be in excess of 5 µg/lwb, the employer shall:
(A) Within two weeks after receipt of biological monitoring results, reassess the employee's occupational exposure to cadmium as follows:
(
1
) Reassess the employee's work practices and personal hygiene;
(
2
) Reevaluate the employee's respirator use, if any, and the respirator program;
(
3
) Review the hygiene facilities;
(
4
) Reevaluate the maintenance and effectiveness of the relevant engineering controls;
(
5
) Assess the employee's smoking history and status;
(B) Within 30 days after the exposure reassessment, specified in paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, take reasonable steps to correct any deficiencies found in the reassessment that may be responsible for the employee's excess exposure to cadmium; and,
(C) Within 90 days after receipt of biological monitoring results, provide a full medical examination to the employee in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section. After completing the medical examination, the examining physician shall determine in a written medical opinion whether to medically remove the employee. If the physician determines that medical removal is not necessary, then until the employee's CdU level falls to or below 3 µg/g Cr, β
2
-M level falls to or below 300 µg/g Cr and CdB level falls to or below 5 µg/lwb, the employer shall:
(
1
) Provide biological monitoring in accordance with paragraph (l)(2)(ii)(B) of this section on a semiannual basis; and
(
2
) Provide annual medical examinations in accordance with paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section.
(iii) For all employees who are subject to medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, if the results of the initial biological monitoring tests show the level of CdU to be in excess of 15 µg/g Cr, or the level of CdB to be in excess of 15 µg/lwb, or the level of β
2
-M to be in excess of 1,500 µg/g Cr, the employer shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (l)(3)(ii)(A)-(B) of this section. Within 90 days after receipt of biological monitoring results, the employer shall provide a full medical examination to the employee in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section. After completing the medical examination, the examining physician shall determine in a written medical opinion whether to medically remove the employee. However, if the initial biological monitoring results and the biological monitoring results obtained during the medical examination both show that: CdU exceeds 15 µg/g Cr; or CdB exceeds 15 µg/lwb; or β
2
-M exceeds 1500 µg/g Cr, and in addition CdU exceeds 3 µg/g Cr or CdB exceeds 5 µg/liter of whole blood, then the physician shall medically remove the employee from exposure to cadmium at or above the action level. If the second set of biological monitoring results obtained during the medical examination does not show that a mandatory removal trigger level has been exceeded,
then the employee is not required to be removed by the mandatory provisions of this paragraph. If the employee is not required to be removed by the mandatory provisions of this paragraph or by the physician's determination, then until the employee's CdU level falls to or below 3 µg/g Cr, β
2
-M level falls to or below 300 µg/g Cr and CdB level falls to or below 5 µg/lwb, the employer shall:
(A) Periodically reassess the employee's occupational exposure to cadmium;
(B) Provide biological monitoring in accordance with paragraph (l)(2)(ii)(B) of this section on a quarterly basis; and
(C) Provide semiannual medical examinations in accordance with paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section.
(iv) For all employees to whom medical surveillance is provided, beginning on January 1, 1999, and in lieu of paragraph (l)(3)(iii) of this section, whenever the results of initial biological monitoring tests show the employee's CdU level to be in excess of 7 µg/g Cr, or β
2
-M level to be in excess of 750 µg/g Cr, or CdB level to be in excess of 10 µg/lwb, the employer shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (l)(3)(ii)(A)-(B) of this section. Within 90 days after receipt of biological monitoring results, the employer shall provide a full medical examination to the employee in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section. After completing the medical examination, the examining physician shall determine in a written medical opinion whether to medically remove the employee. However, if the initial biological monitoring results and the biological monitoring results obtained during the medical examination both show that: CdU exceeds 7 µg/g Cr; or CdB exceeds 10 µg/lwb; or β
2
-M exceeds 750 µg/g Cr, and in addition CdU exceeds 3 µg/g Cr or CdB exceeds 5 µg/liter of whole blood, then the physician shall medically remove the employee from exposure to cadmium at or above the action level. If the second set of biological monitoring results obtained during the medical examination does not show that a mandatory removal trigger level has been exceeded, then the employee is not required to be removed by the mandatory provisions of this paragraph. If the employee is not required to be removed by the mandatory provisions of this paragraph or by the physician's determination, then until the employee's CdU level falls to or below 3 µg/g Cr, β
2
-M level falls to or below 300 µg/g Cr and CdB level falls to or below 5 µg/lwb, the employer shall:
(A) Periodically reassess the employee's occupational exposure to cadmium;
(B) Provide biological monitoring in accordance with paragraph (l)(2)(ii)(B) of this section on a quarterly basis; and
(C) Provide semiannual medical examinations in accordance with paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section.
(4)
Periodic medical surveillance.
(i) For each employee who is covered by medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(1)(i)(A) of this section because of current or anticipated exposure to cadmium, the employer shall provide at least the minimum level of periodic medical surveillance, which consists of periodic medical examinations and periodic biological monitoring. A periodic medical examination shall be provided within one year after the initial examination required by paragraph (l)(2) of this section and thereafter at least biennially. Biological sampling shall be provided at least annually either as part of a periodic medical examination or separately as periodic biological monitoring.
(ii) The periodic medical examination shall include:
(A) A detailed medical and work history, or update thereof, with emphasis on: Past, present and anticipated future exposure to cadmium; smoking history and current status; reproductive history; current use of medications with potential nephrotoxic side-effects; any history of renal, cardiovascular, respiratory, hematopoietic, and/or musculo-skeletal system dysfunction; and as part of the medical and work history, for employees who wear respirators, questions 3-11 and 25-32 in appendix D to this section;
(B) A complete physical examination with emphasis on: blood pressure, the respiratory system, and the urinary system;
(C) A 14 inch by 17 inch or other reasonably-sized standard film or digital posterior-anterior chest X-ray (after the initial X-ray, the frequency of
chest X-rays is to be determined by the examining physician);
(D) Pulmonary function tests, including forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume at 1 second (FEV1);
(E) Biological monitoring, as required in paragraph (l)(2)(ii)(B) of this section;
(F) Blood analysis, in addition to the analysis required under paragraph (l)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, including blood urea nitrogen, complete blood count, and serum creatinine;
(G) Urinalysis, in addition to the analysis required under paragraph (l)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, including the determination of albumin, glucose, and total and low molecular weight proteins;
(H) For males over 40 years old, prostate palpation, or other at least as effective diagnostic test(s), and;
(I) Any additional tests or procedures deemed appropriate by the examining physician.
(iii) Periodic biological monitoring shall be provided in accordance with paragraph (l)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(iv) If the results of periodic biological monitoring or the results of biological monitoring performed as part of the periodic medical examination show the level of the employee's CdU, β
2
-M, or CdB to be in excess of the levels specified in paragraphs (l)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section; or beginning on January 1, 1999, in excess of the levels specified in paragraphs (l)(3)(ii) or (iv), the employer shall take the appropriate actions specified in paragraphs (l)(3)(ii)-(iv) of this section, respectively.
(v) For previously exposed employees under paragraph (l)(1)(i)(B) of this section:
(A) If the employee's levels of CdU did not exceed 3 µg/g Cr, CdB did not exceed 5 µg/lwb, and β
2
-M did not exceed 300 µg/g Cr in the initial biological monitoring tests, and if the results of the followup biological monitoring required by paragraph (l)(3)(i)(B) of this section one year after the initial examination confirm the previous results, the employer may discontinue all periodic medical surveillance for that employee.
(B) If the initial biological monitoring results for CdU, CdB, or β
2
-M were in excess of the levels specified in paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section, but subsequent biological monitoring results required by paragraph (l)(3)(ii)-(iv) of this section show that the employee's CdU levels no longer exceed 3 µg/g Cr, CdB levels no longer exceed 5 µg/lwb, and β
2
-M levels no longer exceed 300 µg/g Cr, the employer shall provide biological monitoring for CdU, CdB, and β
2
-M one year after these most recent biological monitoring results. If the results of the followup biological monitoring specified in this paragraph, confirm the previous results, the employer may discontinue all periodic medical surveillance for that employee.
(C) However, if the results of the follow-up tests specified in paragraph (l)(4)(v)(A) or (B) of this section indicate that the level of the employee's CdU, β
2
-M, or CdB exceeds these same levels, the employer is required to provide annual medical examinations in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section until the results of biological monitoring are consistently below these levels or the examining physician determines in a written medical opinion that further medical surveillance is not required to protect the employee's health.
(vi) A routine, biennial medical examination is not required to be provided in accordance with paragraphs (l)(3)(i) and (l)(4) of this section if adequate medical records show that the employee has been examined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section within the past 12 months. In that case, such records shall be maintained by the employer as part of the employee's medical record, and the next routine, periodic medical examination shall be made available to the employee within two years of the previous examination.
(5)
Actions triggered by medical examinations.
(i) If the results of a medical examination carried out in accordance with this section indicate any laboratory or clinical finding consistent with cadmium toxicity that does not require employer action under paragraphs (l)(2), (3) or (4) of this section, the employer shall take the following steps
and continue to take them until the physician determines that they are no longer necessary.
(A) Periodically reassess: The employee's work practices and personal hygiene; the employee's respirator use, if any; the employee's smoking history and status; the respiratory protection program; the hygiene facilities; the maintenance and effectiveness of the relevant engineering controls; and take all reasonable steps to correct the deficiencies found in the reassessment that may be responsible for the employee's excess exposure to cadmium.
(B) Provide semi-annual medical reexaminations to evaluate the abnormal clinical sign(s) of cadmium toxicity until the results are normal or the employee is medically removed; and
(C) Where the results of tests for total proteins in urine are abnormal, provide a more detailed medical evaluation of the toxic effects of cadmium on the employee's renal system.
(6)
Examination for respirator use.
(i) To determine an employee's fitness for respirator use, the employer shall provide a medical examination that includes the elements specified in paragraph (l)(6)(i)(A)-(D) of this section. This examination shall be provided prior to the employee's being assigned to a job that requires the use of a respirator or no later than 90 days after this section goes into effect, whichever date is later, to any employee without a medical examination within the preceding 12 months that satisfies the requirements of this paragraph.
(A) A detailed medical and work history, or update thereof, with emphasis on: past exposure to cadmium; smoking history and current status; any history of renal, cardiovascular, respiratory, hematopoietic, and/or musculo-skeletal system dysfunction; a description of the job for which the respirator is required; and questions 3-11 and 25-32 in appendix D;
(B) A blood pressure test;
(C) Biological monitoring of the employee's levels of CdU, CdB and β
2
-M in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (l)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, unless such results already have been obtained within the twelve months; and
(D) Any other test or precedure that the examining physician deems appropriate.
(ii) After reviewing all the information obtained from the medical examination required in paragraph (l)(6)(i) of this section, the physician shall determine whether the employee is fit to wear a respirator.
(iii) Whenever an employee has exhibited difficulty in breathing during a respirator fit test or during use of a respirator, the employer, as soon as possible, shall provide the employee with a periodic medical examination in accordance with paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section to determine the employee's fitness to wear a respirator.
(iv) Where the results of the examination required under paragraphs (l)(6)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section are abnormal, medical limitation or prohibition of respirator use shall be considered. If the employee is allowed to wear a respirator, the employee's ability to continue to do so shall be periodically evaluated by a physician.
(7)
Emergency Examinations.
(i) In addition to the medical surveillance required in paragraphs (l)(2)-(6) of this section, the employer shall provide a medical examination as soon as possible to any employee who may have been acutely exposed to cadmium because of an emergency.
(ii) The examination shall include the requirements of paragraph (l)(4)(ii), of this section, with emphasis on the respiratory system, other organ systems considered appropriate by the examining physician, and symptoms of acute overexposure, as identified in paragraphs II(B)(1)-(2) and IV of appendix A of this section.
(8)
Termination of employment examination.
(i) At termination of employment, the employer shall provide a medical examination in accordance with paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section, including a chest X-ray where necessary, to any employee to whom at any prior time the employer was required to provide medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(1)(i) or (l)(7) of this section. However, if the last examination satisfied the requirements of paragraph (l)(4)(ii) of this section and was less than six months prior to the date of termination, no further examination
is required unless otherwise specified in paragraph (l)(3) or (l)(5) of this section;
(ii) In addition, if the employer has discontinued all periodic medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(4)(v) of this section, no termination of employment medical examination is required.
(9)
Information provided to the physician.
The employer shall provide the following information to the examining physician:
(i) A copy of this standard and appendices;
(ii) A description of the affected employee's former, current, and anticipated duties as they relate to the employee's occupational exposure to cadmium;
(iii) The employee's former, current, and anticipated future levels of occupational exposure to cadmium;
(iv) A description of any personal protective equipment, including respirators, used or to be used by the employee, including when and for how long the employee has used that equipment; and
(v) Relevant results of previous biological monitoring and medical examinations.
(10)
Physician's written medical opinion.
(i) The employer shall promptly obtain a written, medical opinion from the examining physician for each medical examination performed on each employee. This written opinion shall contain:
(A) The physician's diagnosis for the employee;
(B) The physician's opinion as to whether the employee has any detected medical condition(s) that would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from further exposure to cadmium, including any indications of potential cadmium toxicity;
(C) The results of any biological or other testing or related evaluations that directly assess the employee's absorption of cadmium;
(D) Any recommended removal from, or limitation on the activities or duties of the employee or on the employee's use of personal protective equipment, such as respirators;
(E) A statement that the physician has clearly and carefully explained to the employee the results of the medical examination, including all biological monitoring results and any medical conditions related to cadmium exposure that require further evaluation or treatment, and any limitation on the employee's diet or use of medications.
(ii) The employer shall promptly obtain a copy of the results of any biological monitoring provided by an employer to an employee independently of a medical examination under paragraphs (l)(2) and (l)(4) of this section, and, in lieu of a written medical opinion, an explanation sheet explaining those results.
(iii) The employer shall instruct the physician not to reveal orally or in the written medical opinion given to the employer specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure to cadmium.
(11)
Medical Removal Protection (MRP)
—(i)
General.
(A) The employer shall temporarily remove an employee from work where there is excess exposure to cadmium on each occasion that medical removal is required under paragraphs (l)(3), (l)(4), or (l)(6) of this section and on each occasion that a physician determines in a written medical opinion that the employee should be removed from such exposure. The physician's determination may be based on biological monitoring results, inability to wear a respirator, evidence of illness, other signs or symptoms of cadmium-related dysfunction or disease, or any other reason deemed medically sufficient by the physician.
(B) The employer shall medically remove an employee in accordance with paragraph (l)(11) of this section regardless of whether at the time of removal a job is available into which the removed employee may be transferred.
(C) Whenever an employee is medically removed under paragraph (l)(11) of this section, the employer shall transfer the removed employee to a job where the exposure to cadmium is within the permissible levels specified in that paragraph as soon as one becomes available.
(D) For any employee who is medically removed under the provisions of paragraph (l)(11)(i) of this section, the employer shall provide follow-up medical examinations semi-annually until,
in a written medical opinion, the examining physician determines that either the employee may be returned to his/her former job status or the employee must be permanently removed from excess cadmium exposure.
(E) The employer may not return an employee who has been medically removed for any reason to his/her former job status until a physician determines in a written medical opinion that continued medical removal is no longer necessary to protect the employee's health.
(ii) Where an employee is found unfit to wear a respirator under paragraph (l)(6)(ii) of this section, the employer shall remove the employee from work where exposure to cadmium is above the PEL.
(iii) Where removal is based upon any reason other than the employee's inability to wear a respirator, the employer shall remove the employee from work where exposure to cadmium is at or above the action level.
(iv) Except as specified in paragraph (l)(11)(v) of this section, no employee who was removed because his/her level of CdU, CdB and/or β
2
-M exceeded the trigger levels in paragraph (l)(3) or (l)(4) of this section may be returned to work with exposure to cadmium at or above the action level until the employee's levels of CdU fall to or below 3 µg/g Cr, CdB fall to or below 5 µg/lwb, and β
2
-M fall to or below 300 µg/g Cr.
(v) However, when in the examining physician's opinion continued exposure to cadmium will not pose an increased risk to the employee's health and there are special circumstances that make continued medical removal an inappropriate remedy, the physician shall fully discuss these matters with the employee, and then in a written determination may return a worker to his/her former job status despite what would otherwise be unacceptably high biological monitoring results. Thereafter and until such time as the employee's biological monitoring results have decreased to levels where he/she could have been returned to his/her former job status, the returned employee shall continue medical surveillance as if he/she were still on medical removal. Until such time, the employee is no longer subject to mandatory medical removal. Subsequent questions regarding the employee's medical removal shall be decided solely by a final medical determination.
(vi) Where an employer, although not required by this section to do so, removes an employee from exposure to cadmium or otherwise places limitations on an employee due to the effects of cadmium exposure on the employee's medical condition, the employer shall provide the same medical removal protection benefits to that employee under paragraph (l)(12) of this section as would have been provided had the removal been required under paragraph (l)(11) of this section.
(12)
Medical removal protection benefits.
(i) The employer shall provide medical removal protection benefits to an employee for up to a maximum of 18 months each time, and while the employee is temporarily medically removed under paragraph (l)(11) of this section.
(ii) For purposes of this section, the requirement that the employer provide medical removal protection benefits means that the employer shall maintain the total normal earnings, seniority, and all other employee rights and benefits of the removed employee, including the employee's right to his/her former job status, as if the employee had not been removed from the employee's job or otherwise medically limited.
(iii) Where, after 18 months on medical removal because of elevated biological monitoring results, the employee's monitoring results have not declined to a low enough level to permit the employee to be returned to his/her former job status:
(A) The employer shall make available to the employee a medical examination pursuant to this section in order to obtain a final medical determination as to whether the employee may be returned to his/her former job status or must be permanently removed from excess cadmium exposure; and
(B) The employer shall assure that the final medical determination indicates whether the employee may be returned to his/her former job status and what steps, if any, should be taken to protect the employee's health;
(iv) The employer may condition the provision of medical removal protection benefits upon the employee's participation in medical surveillance provided in accordance with this section.
(13)
Multiple physician review.
(i) If the employer selects the initial physician to conduct any medical examination or consultation provided to an employee under this section, the employee may designate a second physician to:
(A) Review any findings, determinations, or recommendations of the initial physician; and
(B) Conduct such examinations, consultations, and laboratory tests as the second physician deems necessary to facilitate this review.
(ii) The employer shall promptly notify an employee of the right to seek a second medical opinion after each occasion that an initial physician provided by the employer conducts a medical examination or consultation pursuant to this section. The employer may condition its participation in, and payment for, multiple physician review upon the employee doing the following within fifteen (15) days after receipt of this notice, or receipt of the initial physician's written opinion, whichever is later:
(A) Informing the employer that he or she intends to seek a medical opinion; and
(B) Initiating steps to make an appointment with a second physician.
(iii) If the findings, determinations, or recommendations of the second physician differ from those of the initial physician, then the employer and the employee shall assure that efforts are made for the two physicians to resolve any disagreement.
(iv) If the two physicians have been unable to quickly resolve their disagreement, then the employer and the employee, through their respective physicians, shall designate a third physician to:
(A) Review any findings, determinations, or recommendations of the other two physicians; and
(B) Conduct such examinations, consultations, laboratory tests, and discussions with the other two physicians as the third physician deems necessary to resolve the disagreement among them.
(v) The employer shall act consistently with the findings, determinations, and recommendations of the third physician, unless the employer and the employee reach an agreement that is consistent with the recommendations of at least one of the other two physicians.
(14)
Alternate physician determination.
The employer and an employee or designated employee representative may agree upon the use of any alternate form of physician determination in lieu of the multiple physician review provided by paragraph (l)(13) of this section, so long as the alternative is expeditious and at least as protective of the employee.
(15)
Information the employer must provide the employee.
(i) The employer shall provide a copy of the physician's written medical opinion to the examined employee within five working days after receipt thereof.
(ii) The employer shall provide the employee with a copy of the employee's biological monitoring results and an explanation sheet explaining the results within five working days after receipt thereof.
(iii) Within 30 days after a request by an employee, the employer shall provide the employee with the information the employer is required to provide the examining physician under paragraph (l)(9) of this section.
(16)
Reporting.
In addition to other medical events that are required to be reported on the OSHA Form No. 200, the employer shall report any abnormal condition or disorder caused by occupational exposure to cadmium associated with employment as specified in Chapter (V)(E) of the
Reporting Guidelines for Occupational Injuries and Illnesses.
(m)
Communication of cadmium hazards to employees
—(1)
Hazard communication.
The employer shall include cadmium in the program established to comply with the Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) (§ 1910.1200). The employer shall ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of cadmium and safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the provisions of HCS and paragraph (m)(4) of this section. The employer shall provide information on at
least the following hazards: Cancer; lung effects; kidney effects; and acute toxicity effects.
(2)
Warning signs.
(i) Warning signs shall be provided and displayed in regulated areas. In addition, warning signs shall be posted at all approaches to regulated areas so that an employee may read the signs and take necessary protective steps before entering the area.
(ii) Warning signs required by paragraph (m)(2)(i) of this section shall bear the following legend:
DANGER
CADMIUM
MAY CAUSE CANCER
CAUSES DAMAGE TO LUNGS AND KIDNEYS
WEAR RESPIRATORY PROTECTION IN THIS AREA
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY
(iii) The employer shall ensure that signs required by this paragraph (m)(2) are illuminated, cleaned, and maintained as necessary so that the legend is readily visible.
(iv) Prior to June 1, 2016, employers may use the following legend in lieu of that specified in paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section:
DANGER
CADMIUM
CANCER HAZARD
CAN CAUSE LUNG AND KIDNEY DISEASE
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY
RESPIRATORS REQUIRED IN THIS AREA
(3)
Warning labels.
(i) Shipping and storage containers containing cadmium or cadmium compounds shall bear appropriate warning labels, as specified in paragraph (m)(1) of this section.
(ii) The warning labels for containers of cadmium-contaminated protective clothing, equipment, waste, scrap, or debris shall include at least the following information:
DANGER
CONTAINS CADMIUM
MAY CAUSE CANCER
CAUSES DAMAGE TO LUNGS AND KIDNEYS
AVOID CREATING DUST
(iii) Where feasible, installed cadmium products shall have a visible label or other indication that cadmium is present.
(iv) Prior to June 1, 2015, employers may include the following information on shipping and storage containers containing cadmium, cadmium compounds, or cadmium-contaminated clothing, equipment, waste, scrap, or debris in lieu of the labeling requirements specified in paragraphs (m)(3)(i) and (m)(3)(ii) of this section:
DANGER
CONTAINS CADMIUM
CANCER HAZARD
AVOID CREATING DUST
CAN CAUSE LUNG AND KIDNEY DISEASE
(4)
Employee information and training.
(i) The employer shall train each employee who is potentially exposed to cadmium in accordance with the requirements of this section. The employer shall institute a training program, ensure employee participation in the program, and maintain a record of the contents of the training program.
(ii) Training shall be provided prior to or at the time of initial assignment to a job involving potential exposure to cadmium and at least annually thereafter.
(iii) The employer shall make the training program understandable to the employee and shall assure that each employee is informed of the following:
(A) The health hazards associated with cadmium exposure, with special attention to the information incorporated in appendix A to this section;
(B) The quantity, location, manner of use, release, and storage of cadmium in the workplace and the specific nature of operations that could result in exposure to cadmium, especially exposures above the PEL;
(C) The engineering controls and work practices associated with the employee's job assignment;
(D) The measures employees can take to protect themselves from exposure to cadmium, including modification of such habits as smoking and personal hygiene, and specific procedures the employer has implemented to protect employees from exposure to cadmium such as appropriate work practices, emergency procedures, and the provision of personal protective equipment;
(E) The purpose, proper selection, fitting, proper use, and limitations of respirators and protective clothing;
(F) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (l) of this section;
(G) The contents of this section and its appendices, and,
(H) The employee's rights of access to records under § 1926.33(g) (1) and (2).
(iv) Additional access to information and training program and materials.
(A) The employer shall make a copy of this section and its appendices readily available to all affected employees and shall provide a copy without cost if requested.
(B) Upon request, the employer shall provide to the Assistant Secretary or the Director all materials relating to the employee information and the training program.
(5)
Multi-employer workplace.
In a multi-employer workplace, an employer who produces, uses, or stores cadmium in a manner that may expose employees of other employers to cadmium shall notify those employers of the potential hazard in accordance with paragraph (e) of the hazard communication standard for construction, 29 CFR 1926.59.
(n)
Recordkeeping
—(1)
Exposure monitoring.
(i) The employer shall establish and keep an accurate record of all air monitoring for cadmium in the workplace.
(ii) This record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The monitoring date, shift, duration, air volume, and results in terms of an 8-hour TWA of each sample taken, and if cadmium is not detected, the detection level;
(B) The name and job classification of all employees monitored and of all other employees whose exposures the monitoring result is intended to represent, including, where applicable, a description of how it was determined that the employee's monitoring result could be taken to represent other employee's exposures;
(C) A description of the sampling and analytical methods used and evidence of their accuracy;
(D) The type of respiratory protective device, if any, worn by the monitored employee and by any other employee whose exposure the monitoring result is intended to represent;
(E) A notation of any other conditions that might have affected the monitoring results.
(F) Any exposure monitoring or objective data that were used and the levels.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least thirty (30) years, in accordance with § 1910.1020 of this chapter.
(iv) The employer shall also provide a copy of the results of an employee's air monitoring prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section to an industry trade association and to the employee's union, if any, or, if either of such associations or unions do not exist, to another comparable organization that is competent to maintain such records and is reasonably accessible to employers and employees in the industry.
(2)
Objective data for exemption from requirement for initial monitoring.
(i) For purposes of this section, objective data are information demonstrating that a particular product or material containing cadmium or a specific process, operation, or activity involving cadmium cannot release dust or fumes in concentrations at or above the action level even under the worst-case release conditions. Objective data can be obtained from an industry-wide study or from laboratory product test results from manufacturers of cadmium-containing products or materials. The data the employer uses from an industry-wide survey must be obtained under workplace conditions closely resembling the processes, types of material, control methods, work practices and environmental conditions in the employer's current operations.
(ii) The employer shall maintain the record for at least 30 years of the objective data relied upon.
(3)
Medical surveillance.
(i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee covered by medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) The record shall include at least the following information about the employee:
(A) Name and description of duties;
(B) A copy of the physician's written opinions and of the explanation sheets for biological monitoring results;
(C) A copy of the medical history, and the results of any physical examination and all test results that are required to be provided by this section, including biological tests, X-rays, pulmonary function tests, etc., or that have been obtained to further evaluate any condition that might be related to cadmium exposure;
(D) The employee's medical symptoms that might be related to exposure to cadmium; and
(E) A copy of the information provided to the physician as required by paragraph (l)(9) of this section.
(iii) The employer shall assure that this record is maintained for the duration of employment plus thirty (30) years, in accordance with § 1910.1020 of this chapter.
(iv) At the employee's request, the employer shall promptly provide a copy of the employee's medical record, or update as appropriate, to a medical doctor or a union specified by the employee.
(4)
Availability.
(i) Except as otherwise provided for in this section, access to all records required to be maintained by paragraphs (n)(1) through (3) of this section shall be in accordance with the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(ii) Within 15 days after a request, the employer shall make an employee's medical records required to be kept by paragraph (n)(3) of this section available for examination and copying to the subject employee, to designated representatives, to anyone having the specific written consent of the subject employee, and after the employee's death or incapacitation, to the employee's family members.
(o)
Observation of monitoring
—(1)
Employee observation.
The employer shall provide affected employees or their designated representatives an opportunity to observe any monitoring of employee exposure to cadmium.
(2)
Observation procedures.
When observation of monitoring requires entry into an area where the use of protective clothing or equipment is required, the employer shall provide the observer with that clothing and equipment and shall assure that the observer uses such clothing and equipment and complies with all other applicable safety and health procedures.
(p) [Reserved]
(q)
Appendices.
Except where portions of appendices A, B, D, E, and F to this section are expressly incorporated in requirements of this section, these appendices are purely informational and are not intended to create any additional obligations not otherwise imposed or to detract from any existing obligations.

# Appendix A to § 1926.1127—Substance Safety Data Sheet

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this appendix A are identical to those set forth in appendix A to § 1910.1027 of this chapter.

# Appendix B to § 1926.1127—Substance Technical Guidelines for Cadmium

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this appendix B are identical to those set forth in appendix B to § 1910.1027 of this chapter.

# Appendix C to § 1926.1127 [Reserved]

# Appendix D to § 1926.1127—Occupational Health History Interview With Reference to Cadmium Exposure

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this appendix D are identical to those set forth in appendix D to § 1910.1027 of this chapter.

# Appendix E to § 1926.1127—Cadmium in Workplace Atmospheres

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this appendix E are identical to those set forth in appendix E to § 1910.1027 of this chapter.

# Appendix F to § 1926.1127—Nonmandatory Protocol for Biological Monitoring

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this appendix F are identical to those set forth in appendix F to § 1910.1027 of this chapter.
[57 FR 42452, Sept. 14, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 49272, Oct. 30, 1992; 58 FR 21787, Apr. 23, 1993. Redesignated and amended at 59 FR 215, Jan. 3, 1994; 61 FR 5510, Feb. 13, 1996; 61 FR 31433, 31434, June 20, 1996; 63 FR 1298, Jan. 8, 1998; 70 FR 1144, Jan. 5, 2005; 71 FR 16675, Apr. 3, 2006; 71 FR 50192, Aug. 24, 2006; 73 FR 75589, Dec. 12, 2008; 76 FR 33612, June 8, 2011; 77 FR 17895, Mar. 26, 2012; 84 FR 21597, May 14, 2019; 85 FR 8746, Feb. 18, 2020]
§ 1926.1128
Benzene.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1028 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31434, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1129
[Reserved]
§ 1926.1144
1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1044 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31434, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1145
Acrylonitrile.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1045 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31434, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1147
Ethylene oxide.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1047 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31434, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1148
Formaldehyde.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction work under this section are identical to those set forth at § 1910.1048 of this chapter.
[61 FR 31434, June 20, 1996]
§ 1926.1152
Methylene chloride.

# Note:
The requirements applicable to construction employment under this section are identical to those set forth at 29 CFR 1910.1052.
[62 FR 1619, Jan. 10, 1997]
§ 1926.1153
Respirable crystalline silica.
(a)
Scope and application.
This section applies to all occupational exposures to respirable crystalline silica in construction work, except where employee exposure will remain below 25 micrograms per cubic meter of air (25 µg/m
3
) as an 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA) under any foreseeable conditions.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply:
Action level
means a concentration of airborne respirable crystalline silica of 25 µg/m
3
, calculated as an 8-hour TWA.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or designee.
Director
means the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designee.
Competent person
means an individual who is capable of identifying existing and foreseeable respirable crystalline silica hazards in the workplace and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate or minimize them. The competent person must have the knowledge and ability necessary to fulfill the responsibilities set forth in paragraph (g) of this section.
Employee exposure
means the exposure to airborne respirable crystalline silica that would occur if the employee were not using a respirator.
High-efficiency particulate air [HEPA] filter
means a filter that is at least 99.97 percent efficient in removing mono-dispersed particles of 0.3 micrometers in diameter.
Objective data
means information, such as air monitoring data from industry-wide surveys or calculations based on the composition of a substance, demonstrating employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica associated with a particular product or material or a specific process, task, or activity. The data must reflect workplace conditions closely resembling or with a higher exposure potential than the processes, types of material, control methods, work practices, and environmental conditions in the employer's current operations.
Physician or other licensed health care professional [PLHCP]
means an individual whose legally permitted scope of practice (
i.e.
, license, registration, or certification) allows him or her to independently provide or be delegated the responsibility to provide some or all of the particular health care services required by paragraph (h) of this section.
Respirable crystalline silica
means quartz, cristobalite, and/or tridymite
contained in airborne particles that are determined to be respirable by a sampling device designed to meet the characteristics for respirable-particle-size-selective samplers specified in the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 7708:1995: Air Quality—Particle Size Fraction Definitions for Health-Related Sampling.
Specialist
means an American Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or an American Board Certified Specialist in Occupational Medicine.
This section
means this respirable crystalline silica standard, 29 CFR 1926.1153.
(c)
Specified exposure control methods.
(1) For each employee engaged in a task identified on Table 1, the employer shall fully and properly implement the engineering controls, work practices, and respiratory protection specified for the task on Table 1, unless the employer assesses and limits the exposure of the employee to respirable crystalline silica in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
Table 1—Specified Exposure Control Methods When Working With Materials Containing Crystalline Silica
Equipment/task
Engineering and work practice control methods
Required respiratory protection and minimum assigned protection factor (APF)
≤4 hours/shift
4 hours/shift
(i) Stationary masonry saws
Use saw equipped with integrated water delivery system that continuously feeds water to the blade
None
None.
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
(ii) Handheld power saws (any blade diameter)
Use saw equipped with integrated water delivery system that continuously feeds water to the blade
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions:
—When used outdoors
None
APF 10.
—When used indoors or in an enclosed area
APF 10
APF 10.
(iii) Handheld power saws for cutting fiber-cement board (with blade diameter of 8 inches or less)
For tasks performed outdoors only:
Use saw equipped with commercially available dust collection system
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
None
None.
Dust collector must provide the air flow recommended by the tool manufacturer, or greater, and have a filter with 99% or greater efficiency
(iv) Walk-behind saws
Use saw equipped with integrated water delivery system that continuously feeds water to the blade
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions:
—When used outdoors
None
None.
—When used indoors or in an enclosed area
APF 10
APF 10.
(v) Drivable saws
For tasks performed outdoors only:
Use saw equipped with integrated water delivery system that continuously feeds water to the blade
None
None.
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
(vi) Rig-mounted core saws or drills
Use tool equipped with integrated water delivery system that supplies water to cutting surface
None
None.
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
(vii) Handheld and stand-mounted drills (including impact and rotary hammer drills)
Use drill equipped with commercially available shroud or cowling with dust collection system
None
None.
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
Dust collector must provide the air flow recommended by the tool manufacturer, or greater, and have a filter with 99% or greater efficiency and a filter-cleaning mechanism
Use a HEPA-filtered vacuum when cleaning holes
(viii) Dowel drilling rigs for concrete
For tasks performed outdoors only:
Use shroud around drill bit with a dust collection system. Dust collector must have a filter with 99% or greater efficiency and a filter-cleaning mechanism
APF 10
APF 10.
Use a HEPA-filtered vacuum when cleaning holes
(ix) Vehicle-mounted drilling rigs for rock and concrete
Use dust collection system with close capture hood or shroud around drill bit with a low-flow water spray to wet the dust at the discharge point from the dust collector
None
None.
OR
Operate from within an enclosed cab and use water for dust suppression on drill bit
None
None.
(x) Jackhammers and handheld powered chipping tools
Use tool with water delivery system that supplies a continuous stream or spray of water at the point of impact:
—When used outdoors
None
APF 10.
—When used indoors or in an enclosed area
APF 10
APF 10.
OR
Use tool equipped with commercially available shroud and dust collection system
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
Dust collector must provide the air flow recommended by the tool manufacturer, or greater, and have a filter with 99% or greater efficiency and a filter-cleaning mechanism:
—When used outdoors
None
APF 10.
—When used indoors or in an enclosed area
APF 10
APF 10.
(xi) Handheld grinders for mortar removal (
i.e.
, tuckpointing)
Use grinder equipped with commercially available shroud and dust collection system
APF 10
APF 25.
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
Dust collector must provide 25 cubic feet per minute (cfm) or greater of airflow per inch of wheel diameter and have a filter with 99% or greater efficiency and a cyclonic pre-separator or filter-cleaning mechanism
(xii) Handheld grinders for uses other than mortar removal
For tasks performed outdoors only:
Use grinder equipped with integrated water delivery system that continuously feeds water to the grinding surface
None
None.
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
OR
Use grinder equipped with commercially available shroud and dust collection system
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
Dust collector must provide 25 cubic feet per minute (cfm) or greater of airflow per inch of wheel diameter and have a filter with 99% or greater efficiency and a cyclonic pre-separator or filter-cleaning mechanism:
—When used outdoors
None
None.
—When used indoors or in an enclosed area
None
APF 10.
(xiii) Walk-behind milling machines and floor grinders
Use machine equipped with integrated water delivery system that continuously feeds water to the cutting surface
None
None.
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
OR
Use machine equipped with dust collection system recommended by the manufacturer
None
None.
Operate and maintain tool in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
Dust collector must provide the air flow recommended by the manufacturer, or greater, and have a filter with 99% or greater efficiency and a filter-cleaning mechanism
When used indoors or in an enclosed area, use a HEPA-filtered vacuum to remove loose dust in between passes
(xiv) Small drivable milling machines (less than half-lane)
Use a machine equipped with supplemental water sprays designed to suppress dust. Water must be combined with a surfactant
None
None.
Operate and maintain machine to minimize dust emissions
(xv) Large drivable milling machines (half-lane and larger)
For cuts of any depth on asphalt only:
Use machine equipped with exhaust ventilation on drum enclosure and supplemental water sprays designed to suppress dust
None
None.
Operate and maintain machine to minimize dust emissions
For cuts of four inches in depth or less on any substrate:
Use machine equipped with exhaust ventilation on drum enclosure and supplemental water sprays designed to suppress dust
None
None.
Operate and maintain machine to minimize dust emissions
OR
Use a machine equipped with supplemental water spray designed to suppress dust. Water must be combined with a surfactant
None
None.
Operate and maintain machine to minimize dust emissions
(xvi) Crushing machines
Use equipment designed to deliver water spray or mist for dust suppression at crusher and other points where dust is generated (
e.g.
, hoppers, conveyers, sieves/sizing or vibrating components, and discharge points)
None
None.
Operate and maintain machine in accordance with manufacturer's instructions to minimize dust emissions
Use a ventilated booth that provides fresh, climate-controlled air to the operator, or a remote control station
(xvii) Heavy equipment and utility vehicles used to abrade or fracture silica-containing materials (
e.g.
, hoe-ramming, rock ripping) or used during demolition activities involving silica-containing materials
Operate equipment from within an enclosed cab
When employees outside of the cab are engaged in the task, apply water and/or dust suppressants as necessary to minimize dust emissions
None
None
None.
None.
(xviii) Heavy equipment and utility vehicles for tasks such as grading and excavating but not including: Demolishing, abrading, or fracturing silica-containing materials
Apply water and/or dust suppressants as necessary to minimize dust emissions
OR
None
None.
When the equipment operator is the only employee engaged in the task, operate equipment from within an enclosed cab
None
None.
(2) When implementing the control measures specified in Table 1, each employer shall:
(i) For tasks performed indoors or in enclosed areas, provide a means of exhaust as needed to minimize the accumulation of visible airborne dust;
(ii) For tasks performed using wet methods, apply water at flow rates sufficient to minimize release of visible dust;
(iii) For measures implemented that include an enclosed cab or booth, ensure that the enclosed cab or booth:
(A) Is maintained as free as practicable from settled dust;
(B) Has door seals and closing mechanisms that work properly;
(C) Has gaskets and seals that are in good condition and working properly;
(D) Is under positive pressure maintained through continuous delivery of fresh air;
(E) Has intake air that is filtered through a filter that is 95% efficient in the 0.3-10.0 µm range (
e.g.
, MERV-16 or better); and
(F) Has heating and cooling capabilities.
(3) Where an employee performs more than one task on Table 1 during the course of a shift, and the total duration of all tasks combined is more than four hours, the required respiratory protection for each task is the respiratory protection specified for more than four hours per shift. If the total duration of all tasks on Table 1 combined is less than four hours, the required respiratory protection for each task is the respiratory protection specified for less than four hours per shift.
(d)
Alternative exposure control methods.
For tasks not listed in Table 1, or where the employer does not fully and properly implement the engineering controls, work practices, and respiratory protection described in Table 1:
(1)
Permissible exposure limit (PEL).
The employer shall ensure that no employee is exposed to an airborne concentration of respirable crystalline silica in excess of 50 µg/m
3
, calculated as an 8-hour TWA.
(2)
Exposure assessment
—(i)
General.
The employer shall assess the exposure of each employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be exposed to respirable crystalline silica at or above the action level in accordance with either the performance option in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) or the scheduled monitoring option in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Performance option.
The employer shall assess the 8-hour TWA exposure for each employee on the basis of any combination of air monitoring data or objective data sufficient to accurately characterize employee exposures to respirable crystalline silica.
(iii)
Scheduled monitoring option.
(A) The employer shall perform initial monitoring to assess the 8-hour TWA exposure for each employee on the basis of one or more personal breathing zone air samples that reflect the exposures of employees on each shift, for each job classification, in each work area. Where several employees perform the same tasks on the same shift and in the same work area, the employer may sample a representative fraction
of these employees in order to meet this requirement. In representative sampling, the employer shall sample the employee(s) who are expected to have the highest exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
(B) If initial monitoring indicates that employee exposures are below the action level, the employer may discontinue monitoring for those employees whose exposures are represented by such monitoring.
(C) Where the most recent exposure monitoring indicates that employee exposures are at or above the action level but at or below the PEL, the employer shall repeat such monitoring within six months of the most recent monitoring.
(D) Where the most recent exposure monitoring indicates that employee exposures are above the PEL, the employer shall repeat such monitoring within three months of the most recent monitoring.
(E) Where the most recent (non-initial) exposure monitoring indicates that employee exposures are below the action level, the employer shall repeat such monitoring within six months of the most recent monitoring until two consecutive measurements, taken seven or more days apart, are below the action level, at which time the employer may discontinue monitoring for those employees whose exposures are represented by such monitoring, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section.
(iv)
Reassessment of exposures.
The employer shall reassess exposures whenever a change in the production, process, control equipment, personnel, or work practices may reasonably be expected to result in new or additional exposures at or above the action level, or when the employer has any reason to believe that new or additional exposures at or above the action level have occurred.
(v)
Methods of sample analysis.
The employer shall ensure that all samples taken to satisfy the monitoring requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section are evaluated by a laboratory that analyzes air samples for respirable crystalline silica in accordance with the procedures in appendix A to this section.
(vi)
Employee notification of assessment results.
(A) Within five working days after completing an exposure assessment in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the employer shall individually notify each affected employee in writing of the results of that assessment or post the results in an appropriate location accessible to all affected employees.
(B) Whenever an exposure assessment indicates that employee exposure is above the PEL, the employer shall describe in the written notification the corrective action being taken to reduce employee exposure to or below the PEL.
(vii)
Observation of monitoring.
(A) Where air monitoring is performed to comply with the requirements of this section, the employer shall provide affected employees or their designated representatives an opportunity to observe any monitoring of employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
(B) When observation of monitoring requires entry into an area where the use of protective clothing or equipment is required for any workplace hazard, the employer shall provide the observer with protective clothing and equipment at no cost and shall ensure that the observer uses such clothing and equipment.
(3)
Methods of compliance
—(i)
Engineering and work practice controls.
The employer shall use engineering and work practice controls to reduce and maintain employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica to or below the PEL, unless the employer can demonstrate that such controls are not feasible. Wherever such feasible engineering and work practice controls are not sufficient to reduce employee exposure to or below the PEL, the employer shall nonetheless use them to reduce employee exposure to the lowest feasible level and shall supplement them with the use of respiratory protection that complies with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii)
Abrasive blasting.
In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the employer shall comply with other OSHA standards, when applicable, such as 29 CFR 1926.57 (Ventilation), where abrasive blasting is
conducted using crystalline silica-containing blasting agents, or where abrasive blasting is conducted on substrates that contain crystalline silica.
(e)
Respiratory protection
—(1)
General.
Where respiratory protection is required by this section, the employer must provide each employee an appropriate respirator that complies with the requirements of this paragraph and 29 CFR 1910.134. Respiratory protection is required:
(i) Where specified by Table 1 of paragraph (c) of this section; or
(ii) For tasks not listed in Table 1, or where the employer does not fully and properly implement the engineering controls, work practices, and respiratory protection described in Table 1:
(A) Where exposures exceed the PEL during periods necessary to install or implement feasible engineering and work practice controls;
(B) Where exposures exceed the PEL during tasks, such as certain maintenance and repair tasks, for which engineering and work practice controls are not feasible; and
(C) During tasks for which an employer has implemented all feasible engineering and work practice controls and such controls are not sufficient to reduce exposures to or below the PEL.
(2)
Respiratory protection program.
Where respirator use is required by this section, the employer shall institute a respiratory protection program in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.134.
(3)
Specified exposure control methods.
For the tasks listed in Table 1 in paragraph (c) of this section, if the employer fully and properly implements the engineering controls, work practices, and respiratory protection described in Table 1, the employer shall be considered to be in compliance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section and the requirements for selection of respirators in 29 CFR 1910.134(d)(1)(iii) and (d)(3) with regard to exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
(f)
Housekeeping.
(1) The employer shall not allow dry sweeping or dry brushing where such activity could contribute to employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica unless wet sweeping, HEPA-filtered vacuuming or other methods that minimize the likelihood of exposure are not feasible.
(2) The employer shall not allow compressed air to be used to clean clothing or surfaces where such activity could contribute to employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica unless:
(i) The compressed air is used in conjunction with a ventilation system that effectively captures the dust cloud created by the compressed air; or
(ii) No alternative method is feasible.
(g)
Written exposure control plan.
(1) The employer shall establish and implement a written exposure control plan that contains at least the following elements:
(i) A description of the tasks in the workplace that involve exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(ii) A description of the engineering controls, work practices, and respiratory protection used to limit employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica for each task;
(iii) A description of the housekeeping measures used to limit employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica; and
(iv) A description of the procedures used to restrict access to work areas, when necessary, to minimize the number of employees exposed to respirable crystalline silica and their level of exposure, including exposures generated by other employers or sole proprietors.
(2) The employer shall review and evaluate the effectiveness of the written exposure control plan at least annually and update it as necessary.
(3) The employer shall make the written exposure control plan readily available for examination and copying, upon request, to each employee covered by this section, their designated representatives, the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
(4) The employer shall designate a competent person to make frequent and regular inspections of job sites, materials, and equipment to implement the written exposure control plan.
(h)
Medical surveillance
—(1)
General.
(i) The employer shall make medical surveillance available at no cost to the employee, and at a reasonable time and place, for each employee who will be
required under this section to use a respirator for 30 or more days per year.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that all medical examinations and procedures required by this section are performed by a PLHCP as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Initial examination.
The employer shall make available an initial (baseline) medical examination within 30 days after initial assignment, unless the employee has received a medical examination that meets the requirements of this section within the last three years. The examination shall consist of:
(i) A medical and work history, with emphasis on: Past, present, and anticipated exposure to respirable crystalline silica, dust, and other agents affecting the respiratory system; any history of respiratory system dysfunction, including signs and symptoms of respiratory disease (
e.g.
, shortness of breath, cough, wheezing); history of tuberculosis; and smoking status and history;
(ii) A physical examination with special emphasis on the respiratory system;
(iii) A chest X-ray (a single posteroanterior radiographic projection or radiograph of the chest at full inspiration recorded on either film (no less than 14 x 17 inches and no more than 16 x 17 inches) or digital radiography systems), interpreted and classified according to the International Labour Office (ILO) International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses by a NIOSH-certified B Reader;
(iv) A pulmonary function test to include forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV
1
) and FEV
1
/FVC ratio, administered by a spirometry technician with a current certificate from a NIOSH-approved spirometry course;
(v) Testing for latent tuberculosis infection; and
(vi) Any other tests deemed appropriate by the PLHCP.
(3)
Periodic examinations.
The employer shall make available medical examinations that include the procedures described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section (except paragraph (h)(2)(v)) at least every three years, or more frequently if recommended by the PLHCP.
(4)
Information provided to the PLHCP.
The employer shall ensure that the examining PLHCP has a copy of this standard, and shall provide the PLHCP with the following information:
(i) A description of the employee's former, current, and anticipated duties as they relate to the employee's occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(ii) The employee's former, current, and anticipated levels of occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(iii) A description of any personal protective equipment used or to be used by the employee, including when and for how long the employee has used or will use that equipment; and
(iv) Information from records of employment-related medical examinations previously provided to the employee and currently within the control of the employer.
(5)
PLHCP's written medical report for the employee.
The employer shall ensure that the PLHCP explains to the employee the results of the medical examination and provides each employee with a written medical report within 30 days of each medical examination performed. The written report shall contain:
(i) A statement indicating the results of the medical examination, including any medical condition(s) that would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from exposure to respirable crystalline silica and any medical conditions that require further evaluation or treatment;
(ii) Any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators;
(iii) Any recommended limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica; and
(iv) A statement that the employee should be examined by a specialist (pursuant to paragraph (h)(7) of this section) if the chest X-ray provided in accordance with this section is classified as 1/0 or higher by the B Reader, or if referral to a specialist is otherwise deemed appropriate by the PLHCP.
(6)
PLHCP's written medical opinion for the employer.
(i) The employer shall obtain a written medical opinion from
the PLHCP within 30 days of the medical examination. The written opinion shall contain only the following:
(A) The date of the examination;
(B) A statement that the examination has met the requirements of this section; and
(C) Any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators.
(ii) If the employee provides written authorization, the written opinion shall also contain either or both of the following:
(A) Any recommended limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(B) A statement that the employee should be examined by a specialist (pursuant to paragraph (h)(7) of this section) if the chest X-ray provided in accordance with this section is classified as 1/0 or higher by the B Reader, or if referral to a specialist is otherwise deemed appropriate by the PLHCP.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that each employee receives a copy of the written medical opinion described in paragraph (h)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section within 30 days of each medical examination performed.
(7)
Additional examinations.
(i) If the PLHCP's written medical opinion indicates that an employee should be examined by a specialist, the employer shall make available a medical examination by a specialist within 30 days after receiving the PLHCP's written opinion.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that the examining specialist is provided with all of the information that the employer is obligated to provide to the PLHCP in accordance with paragraph (h)(4) of this section.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that the specialist explains to the employee the results of the medical examination and provides each employee with a written medical report within 30 days of the examination. The written report shall meet the requirements of paragraph (h)(5) (except paragraph (h)(5)(iv)) of this section.
(iv) The employer shall obtain a written opinion from the specialist within 30 days of the medical examination. The written opinion shall meet the requirements of paragraph (h)(6) (except paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) and (ii)(B)) of this section.
(i)
Communication of respirable crystalline silica hazards to employees
—(1)
Hazard communication.
The employer shall include respirable crystalline silica in the program established to comply with the hazard communication standard (HCS) (29 CFR 1910.1200). The employer shall ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of crystalline silica and safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the provisions of HCS and paragraph (i)(2) of this section. The employer shall ensure that at least the following hazards are addressed: Cancer, lung effects, immune system effects, and kidney effects.
(2)
Employee information and training.
(i) The employer shall ensure that each employee covered by this section can demonstrate knowledge and understanding of at least the following:
(A) The health hazards associated with exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(B) Specific tasks in the workplace that could result in exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(C) Specific measures the employer has implemented to protect employees from exposure to respirable crystalline silica, including engineering controls, work practices, and respirators to be used;
(D) The contents of this section;
(E) The identity of the competent person designated by the employer in accordance with paragraph (g)(4) of this section; and
(F) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (h) of this section.
(ii) The employer shall make a copy of this section readily available without cost to each employee covered by this section.
(j)
Recordkeeping
—(1)
Air monitoring data.
(i) The employer shall make and maintain an accurate record of all exposure measurements taken to assess employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica, as prescribed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(ii) This record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The date of measurement for each sample taken;
(B) The task monitored;
(C) Sampling and analytical methods used;
(D) Number, duration, and results of samples taken;
(E) Identity of the laboratory that performed the analysis;
(F) Type of personal protective equipment, such as respirators, worn by the employees monitored; and
(G) Name and job classification of all employees represented by the monitoring, indicating which employees were actually monitored.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that exposure records are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(2)
Objective data.
(i) The employer shall make and maintain an accurate record of all objective data relied upon to comply with the requirements of this section.
(ii) This record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The crystalline silica-containing material in question;
(B) The source of the objective data;
(C) The testing protocol and results of testing;
(D) A description of the process, task, or activity on which the objective data were based; and
(E) Other data relevant to the process, task, activity, material, or exposures on which the objective data were based.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that objective data are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(3)
Medical surveillance.
(i) The employer shall make and maintain an accurate record for each employee covered by medical surveillance under paragraph (h) of this section.
(ii) The record shall include the following information about the employee:
(A) Name;
(B) A copy of the PLHCPs' and specialists' written medical opinions; and
(C) A copy of the information provided to the PLHCPs and specialists.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that medical records are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(k)
Dates.
(1) This section shall become effective June 23, 2016.
(2) All obligations of this section, except requirements for methods of sample analysis in paragraph (d)(2)(v), shall commence June 23, 2017.
(3) Requirements for methods of sample analysis in paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section commence June 23, 2018.

# Appendix A to § 1926.1153—Methods of Sample Analysis
This This appendix specifies the procedures for analyzing air samples for respirable crystalline silica, as well as the quality control procedures that employers must ensure that laboratories use when performing an analysis required under 29 CFR 1926.1153 (d)(2)(v). Employers must ensure that such a laboratory:
1. Evaluates all samples using the procedures specified in one of the following analytical methods: OSHA ID-142; NMAM 7500; NMAM 7602; NMAM 7603; MSHA P-2; or MSHA P-7;
2. Is accredited to ANS/ISO/IEC Standard 17025:2005 with respect to crystalline silica analyses by a body that is compliant with ISO/IEC Standard 17011:2004 for implementation of quality assessment programs;
3. Uses the most current National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or NIST traceable standards for instrument calibration or instrument calibration verification;
4. Implements an internal quality control (QC) program that evaluates analytical uncertainty and provides employers with estimates of sampling and analytical error;
5. Characterizes the sample material by identifying polymorphs of respirable crystalline silica present, identifies the presence of any interfering compounds that might affect the analysis, and makes any corrections necessary in order to obtain accurate sample analysis; and
6. Analyzes quantitatively for crystalline silica only after confirming that the sample matrix is free of uncorrectable analytical interferences, corrects for analytical interferences, and uses a method that meets the following performance specifications:
6.1
Each day that samples are analyzed, performs instrument calibration checks with standards that bracket the sample concentrations;
6.2
Uses five or more calibration standard levels to prepare calibration curves and ensures that standards are distributed through the calibration range in a manner that accurately reflects the underlying calibration curve; and
6.3
Optimizes methods and instruments to obtain a quantitative limit of detection that represents a value no higher than 25 percent of the PEL based on sample air volume.

# Appendix B to § 1926.1153—Medical Surveillance Guidelines

# Introduction
The purpose of this Appendix is to provide medical information and recommendations to aid physicians and other licensed health care professionals (PLHCPs) regarding compliance with the medical surveillance provisions of the respirable crystalline silica standard (29 CFR 1926.1153). Appendix B is for informational and guidance purposes only and none of the statements in Appendix B should be construed as imposing a mandatory requirement on employers that is not otherwise imposed by the standard.
Medical screening and surveillance allow for early identification of exposure-related health effects in individual employee and groups of employees, so that actions can be taken to both avoid further exposure and prevent or address adverse health outcomes. Silica-related diseases can be fatal, encompass a variety of target organs, and may have public health consequences when considering the increased risk of a latent tuberculosis (TB) infection becoming active. Thus, medical surveillance of silica-exposed employees requires that PLHCPs have a thorough knowledge of silica-related health effects.
This Appendix is divided into seven sections. Section 1 reviews silica-related diseases, medical responses, and public health responses. Section 2 outlines the components of the medical surveillance program for employees exposed to silica. Section 3 describes the roles and responsibilities of the PLHCP implementing the program and of other medical specialists and public health professionals. Section 4 provides a discussion of considerations, including confidentiality. Section 5 provides a list of additional resources and Section 6 lists references. Section 7 provides sample forms for the written medical report for the employee, the written medical opinion for the employer and the written authorization.

# 1. Recognition of Silica-Related Diseases
1.1. Overview.
The term “silica” refers specifically to the compound silicon dioxide (SiO
2
). Silica is a major component of sand, rock, and mineral ores. Exposure to fine (respirable size) particles of crystalline forms of silica is associated with adverse health effects, such as silicosis, lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and activation of latent TB infections. Exposure to respirable crystalline silica can occur in industry settings such as foundries, abrasive blasting operations, paint manufacturing, glass and concrete product manufacturing, brick making, china and pottery manufacturing, manufacturing of plumbing fixtures, and many construction activities including highway repair, masonry, concrete work, rock drilling, and tuck-pointing. New uses of silica continue to emerge. These include countertop manufacturing, finishing, and installation (Kramer
et al.
2012; OSHA 2015) and hydraulic fracturing in the oil and gas industry (OSHA 2012).
Silicosis is an irreversible, often disabling, and sometimes fatal fibrotic lung disease. Progression of silicosis can occur despite removal from further exposure. Diagnosis of silicosis requires a history of exposure to silica and radiologic findings characteristic of silica exposure. Three different presentations of silicosis (chronic, accelerated, and acute) have been defined. Accelerated and acute silicosis are much less common than chronic silicosis. However, it is critical to recognize all cases of accelerated and acute silicosis because these are life-threatening illnesses and because they are caused by substantial overexposures to respirable crystalline silica. Although any case of silicosis indicates a breakdown in prevention, a case of acute or accelerated silicosis implies current high exposure and a very marked breakdown in prevention.
In addition to silicosis, employees exposed to respirable crystalline silica, especially those with accelerated or acute silicosis, are at increased risks of contracting active TB and other infections (ATS 1997; Rees and Murray 2007). Exposure to respirable crystalline silica also increases an employee's risk of developing lung cancer, and the higher the cumulative exposure, the higher the risk (Steenland
et al.
2001; Steenland and Ward 2014). Symptoms for these diseases and other respirable crystalline silica-related diseases are discussed below.
1.2. Chronic Silicosis.
Chronic silicosis is the most common presentation of silicosis and usually occurs after at least 10 years of exposure to respirable crystalline silica. The clinical presentation of chronic silicosis is:
1.2.1. Symptoms—shortness of breath and cough, although employees may not notice any symptoms early in the disease. Constitutional symptoms, such as fever, loss of appetite and fatigue, may indicate other diseases associated with silica exposure, such as TB infection or lung cancer. Employees with these symptoms should immediately receive further evaluation and treatment.
1.2.2. Physical Examination—may be normal or disclose dry rales or rhonchi on lung auscultation.
1.2.3. Spirometry—may be normal or may show only a mild restrictive or obstructive pattern.
1.2.4. Chest X-ray—classic findings are small, rounded opacities in the upper lung fields bilaterally. However, small irregular opacities and opacities in other lung areas can also occur. Rarely, “eggshell calcifications” in the hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes are seen.
1.2.5. Clinical Course—chronic silicosis in most cases is a slowly progressive disease. Under the respirable crystalline silica standard, the PLHCP is to recommend that employees with a 1/0 category X-ray be referred to an American Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine. The PLHCP and/or Specialist should counsel employees regarding work practices and personal habits that could affect employees' respiratory health.
1.3. Accelerated Silicosis.
Accelerated silicosis generally occurs within 5-10 years of exposure and results from high levels of exposure to respirable crystalline silica. The clinical presentation of accelerated silicosis is:
1.3.1. Symptoms—shortness of breath, cough, and sometimes sputum production. Employees with exposure to respirable crystalline silica, and especially those with accelerated silicosis, are at high risk for activation of TB infections, atypical mycobacterial infections, and fungal superinfections. Constitutional symptoms, such as fever, weight loss, hemoptysis (coughing up blood), and fatigue may herald one of these infections or the onset of lung cancer.
1.3.2. Physical Examination—rales, rhonchi, or other abnormal lung findings in relation to illnesses present. Clubbing of the digits, signs of heart failure, and cor pulmonale may be present in severe lung disease.
1.3.3. Spirometry—restrictive or mixed restrictive/obstructive pattern.
1.3.4. Chest X-ray—small rounded and/or irregular opacities bilaterally. Large opacities and lung abscesses may indicate infections, lung cancer, or progression to complicated silicosis, also termed progressive massive fibrosis.
1.3.5. Clinical Course—accelerated silicosis has a rapid, severe course. Under the respirable crystalline silica standard, the PLHCP can recommend referral to a Board Certified Specialist in either Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine, as deemed appropriate, and referral to a Specialist is recommended whenever the diagnosis of accelerated silicosis is being considered.
1.4. Acute Silicosis.
Acute silicosis is a rare disease caused by inhalation of extremely high levels of respirable crystalline silica particles. The pathology is similar to alveolar proteinosis with lipoproteinaceous material accumulating in the alveoli. Acute silicosis develops rapidly, often, within a few months to less than 2 years of exposure, and is almost always fatal. The clinical presentation of acute silicosis is as follows:
1.4.1. Symptoms—sudden, progressive, and severe shortness of breath. Constitutional symptoms are frequently present and include fever, weight loss, fatigue, productive cough, hemoptysis (coughing up blood), and pleuritic chest pain.
1.4.2. Physical Examination—dyspnea at rest, cyanosis, decreased breath sounds, inspiratory rales, clubbing of the digits, and fever.
1.4.3. Spirometry—restrictive or mixed restrictive/obstructive pattern.
1.4.4. Chest X-ray—diffuse haziness of the lungs bilaterally early in the disease. As the disease progresses, the “ground glass” appearance of interstitial fibrosis will appear.
1.4.5. Clinical Course—employees with acute silicosis are at especially high risk of TB activation, nontuberculous mycobacterial infections, and fungal superinfections. Acute silicosis is immediately life-threatening. The employee should be urgently referred to a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine for evaluation and treatment. Although any case of silicosis indicates a breakdown in prevention, a case of acute or accelerated silicosis implies a profoundly high level of silica exposure and may mean that other employees are currently exposed to dangerous levels of silica.
1.5. COPD.
COPD, including chronic bronchitis and emphysema, has been documented in silica-exposed employees, including those who do not develop silicosis. Periodic spirometry tests are performed to evaluate each employee for progressive changes consistent with the development of COPD. In addition to evaluating spirometry results of individual employees over time, PLHCPs may want to be aware of general trends in spirometry results for groups of employees from the same workplace to identify possible problems that might exist at that workplace. (
See
Section 2 of this Appendix on Medical Surveillance for further discussion.) Heart disease may develop secondary to lung diseases such as COPD. A recent study by Liu
et al.
2014 noted a significant exposure-response trend between cumulative silica exposure and heart disease deaths, primarily due to pulmonary heart disease, such as cor pulmonale.
1.6. Renal and Immune System.
Silica exposure has been associated with several types of kidney disease, including glomerulonephritis, nephrotic syndrome, and end stage renal disease requiring dialysis. Silica exposure has also been associated with other autoimmune conditions, including progressive systemic sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and rheumatoid arthritis. Studies note an association between employees with silicosis and serologic markers for autoimmune diseases, including antinuclear antibodies, rheumatoid factor, and immune complexes (Jalloul and Banks 2007; Shtraichman
et al.
2015).
1.7. TB and Other Infections.
Silica-exposed employees with latent TB are 3 to 30 times more likely to develop active pulmonary TB infection (ATS 1997; Rees and Murray 2007).
Although respirable crystalline silica exposure does not cause TB infection, individuals with latent TB infection are at increased risk for activation of disease if they have higher levels of respirable crystalline silica exposure, greater profusion of radiographic abnormalities, or a diagnosis of silicosis. Demographic characteristics, such as immigration from some countries, are associated with increased rates of latent TB infection. PLHCPs can review the latest Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) information on TB incidence rates and high risk populations online (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix). Additionally, silica-exposed employees are at increased risk for contracting nontuberculous mycobacterial infections, including
Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare
and
Mycobacterium kansaii.
1.8. Lung Cancer.
The National Toxicology Program has listed respirable crystalline silica as a known human carcinogen since 2000 (NTP 2014). The International Agency for Research on Cancer (2012) has also classified silica as Group 1 (carcinogenic to humans). Several studies have indicated that the risk of lung cancer from exposure to respirable crystalline silica and smoking is greater than additive (Brown 2009; Liu
et al.
2013). Employees should be counseled on smoking cessation.

# 2. Medical Surveillance
PLHCPs who manage silica medical surveillance programs should have a thorough understanding of the many silica-related diseases and health effects outlined in Section 1 of this Appendix. At each clinical encounter, the PLHCP should consider silica-related health outcomes, with particular vigilance for acute and accelerated silicosis. In this Section, the required components of medical surveillance under the respirable crystalline silica standard are reviewed, along with additional guidance and recommendations for PLHCPs performing medical surveillance examinations for silica-exposed employees.
2.1. History.
2.1.1. The respirable crystalline silica standard requires the following: A medical and work history, with emphasis on: Past, present, and anticipated exposure to respirable crystalline silica, dust, and other agents affecting the respiratory system; any history of respiratory system dysfunction, including signs and symptoms of respiratory disease (
e.g.
, shortness of breath, cough, wheezing); history of TB; and smoking status and history.
2.1.2. Further, the employer must provide the PLHCP with the following information:
2.1.2.1. A description of the employee's former, current, and anticipated duties as they relate to the employee's occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
2.1.2.2. The employee's former, current, and anticipated levels of occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
2.1.2.3. A description of any personal protective equipment used or to be used by the employee, including when and for how long the employee has used or will use that equipment; and
2.1.2.4. Information from records of employment-related medical examinations previously provided to the employee and currently within the control of the employer.
2.1.3. Additional guidance and recommendations: A history is particularly important both in the initial evaluation and in periodic examinations. Information on past and current medical conditions (particularly a history of kidney disease, cardiac disease, connective tissue disease, and other immune diseases), medications, hospitalizations and surgeries may uncover health risks, such as immune suppression, that could put an employee at increased health risk from exposure to silica. This information is important when counseling the employee on risks and safe work practices related to silica exposure.
2.2.
Physical Examination.
2.2.1. The respirable crystalline silica standard requires the following: A physical examination, with special emphasis on the respiratory system. The physical examination must be performed at the initial examination and every three years thereafter.
2.2.2. Additional guidance and recommendations: Elements of the physical examination that can assist the PHLCP include: An examination of the cardiac system, an extremity examination (for clubbing, cyanosis, edema, or joint abnormalities), and an examination of other pertinent organ systems identified during the history.
2.3. TB Testing.
2.3.1. The respirable crystalline silica standard requires the following: Baseline testing for TB on initial examination.
2.3.2. Additional guidance and recommendations:
2.3.2.1. Current CDC guidelines (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix) should be followed for the application and interpretation of Tuberculin skin tests (TST). The interpretation and documentation of TST reactions should be performed within 48 to 72 hours of administration by trained PLHCPs.
2.3.2.2. PLHCPs may use alternative TB tests, such as interferon-γ release assays (IGRAs), if sensitivity and specificity are comparable to TST (Mazurek
et al.
2010; Slater
et al.
2013). PLHCPs can consult the current CDC guidelines for acceptable tests for latent TB infection.
2.3.2.3. The silica standard allows the PLHCP to order additional tests or test at a greater frequency than required by the standard, if deemed appropriate. Therefore,
PLHCPs might perform periodic (
e.g.
, annual) TB testing as appropriate, based on employees' risk factors. For example, according to the American Thoracic Society (ATS), the diagnosis of silicosis or exposure to silica for 25 years or more are indications for annual TB testing (ATS 1997). PLHCPs should consult the current CDC guidance on risk factors for TB (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix).
2.3.2.4. Employees with positive TB tests and those with indeterminate test results should be referred to the appropriate agency or specialist, depending on the test results and clinical picture. Agencies, such as local public health departments, or specialists, such as a pulmonary or infectious disease specialist, may be the appropriate referral. Active TB is a nationally notifiable disease. PLHCPs should be aware of the reporting requirements for their region. All States have TB Control Offices that can be contacted for further information. (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix for links to CDC's TB resources and State TB Control Offices.)
2.3.2.5. The following public health principles are key to TB control in the U.S. (ATS-CDC-IDSA 2005):
(1)
Prompt detection and reporting of persons who have contracted active TB;
(2)
Prevention of TB spread to close contacts of active TB cases;
(3)
Prevention of active TB in people with latent TB through targeted testing and treatment; and
(4)
Identification of settings at high risk for TB transmission so that appropriate infection-control measures can be implemented.
2.4. Pulmonary Function Testing.
2.4.1. The respirable crystalline silica standard requires the following: Pulmonary function testing must be performed on the initial examination and every three years thereafter. The required pulmonary function test is spirometry and must include forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV
1
), and FEV
1
/FVC ratio. Testing must be administered by a spirometry technician with a current certificate from a National Institute for Occupational Health and Safety (NIOSH)-approved spirometry course.
2.4.2. Additional guidance and recommendations: Spirometry provides information about individual respiratory status and can be used to track an employee's respiratory status over time or as a surveillance tool to follow individual and group respiratory function. For quality results, the ATS and the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine (ACOEM) recommend use of the third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III) values, and ATS publishes recommendations for spirometry equipment (Miller
et al.
2005; Townsend 2011; Redlich
et al.
2014). OSHA's publication,
Spirometry Testing in Occupational Health Programs: Best Practices for Healthcare Professionals
, provides helpful guidance (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix). Abnormal spirometry results may warrant further clinical evaluation and possible recommendations for limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
2.5. Chest X-ray.
2.5.1. The respirable crystalline silica standard requires the following: A single posteroanterior (PA) radiographic projection or radiograph of the chest at full inspiration recorded on either film (no less than 14 x 17 inches and no more than 16 x 17 inches) or digital radiography systems. A chest X-ray must be performed on the initial examination and every three years thereafter. The chest X-ray must be interpreted and classified according to the International Labour Office (ILO) International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses by a NIOSH-certified B Reader.
Chest radiography is necessary to diagnose silicosis, monitor the progression of silicosis, and identify associated conditions such as TB. If the B reading indicates small opacities in a profusion of 1/0 or higher, the employee is to receive a recommendation for referral to a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine.
2.5.2. Additional guidance and recommendations: Medical imaging has largely transitioned from conventional film-based radiography to digital radiography systems. The ILO Guidelines for the Classification of Pneumoconioses has historically provided film-based chest radiography as a referent standard for comparison to individual exams. However, in 2011, the ILO revised the guidelines to include a digital set of referent standards that were derived from the prior film-based standards. To assist in assuring that digitally-acquired radiographs are at least as safe and effective as film radiographs, NIOSH has prepared guidelines, based upon accepted contemporary professional recommendations (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix). Current research from Laney
et al.
2011 and Halldin
et al.
2014 validate the use of the ILO digital referent images. Both studies conclude that the results of pneumoconiosis classification using digital references are comparable to film-based ILO classifications. Current ILO guidance on radiography for pneumoconioses and B-reading should be reviewed by the PLHCP periodically, as needed, on the ILO or NIOSH Web sites (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix).
2.6. Other Testing.
Under the respirable crystalline silica standards, the PLHCP has the option of ordering additional testing he or she deems appropriate. Additional tests can be ordered on a case-by-case basis depending on individual signs or symptoms and
clinical judgment. For example, if an employee reports a history of abnormal kidney function tests, the PLHCP may want to order a baseline renal function tests (
e.g.
, serum creatinine and urinalysis). As indicated above, the PLHCP may order annual TB testing for silica-exposed employees who are at high risk of developing active TB infections. Additional tests that PLHCPs may order based on findings of medical examinations include, but is not limited to, chest computerized tomography (CT) scan for lung cancer or COPD, testing for immunologic diseases, and cardiac testing for pulmonary-related heart disease, such as cor pulmonale.

# 3. Roles and Responsibilities
3.1. PLHCP.
The PLHCP designation refers to “an individual whose legally permitted scope of practice (
i.e.
, license, registration, or certification) allows him or her to independently provide or be delegated the responsibility to provide some or all of the particular health care services required” by the respirable crystalline silica standard. The legally permitted scope of practice for the PLHCP is determined by each State. PLHCPs who perform clinical services for a silica medical surveillance program should have a thorough knowledge of respirable crystalline silica-related diseases and symptoms. Suspected cases of silicosis, advanced COPD, or other respiratory conditions causing impairment should be promptly referred to a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine.
Once the medical surveillance examination is completed, the employer must ensure that the PLHCP explains to the employee the results of the medical examination and provides the employee with a written medical report within 30 days of the examination. The written medical report must contain a statement indicating the results of the medical examination, including any medical condition(s) that would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from exposure to respirable crystalline silica and any medical conditions that require further evaluation or treatment. In addition, the PLHCP's written medical report must include any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators, any recommended limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica, and a statement that the employee should be examined by a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational medicine if the chest X-ray is classified as 1/0 or higher by the B Reader, or if referral to a Specialist is otherwise deemed appropriate by the PLHCP.
The PLHCP should discuss all findings and test results and any recommendations regarding the employee's health, worksite safety and health practices, and medical referrals for further evaluation, if indicated. In addition, it is suggested that the PLHCP offer to provide the employee with a complete copy of their examination and test results, as some employees may want this information for their own records or to provide to their personal physician or a future PLHCP. Employees are entitled to access their medical records.
Under the respirable crystalline silica standard, the employer must ensure that the PLHCP provides the employer with a written medical opinion within 30 days of the employee examination, and that the employee also gets a copy of the written medical opinion for the employer within 30 days. The PLHCP may choose to directly provide the employee a copy of the written medical opinion. This can be particularly helpful to employees, such as construction employees, who may change employers frequently. The written medical opinion can be used by the employee as proof of up-to-date medical surveillance. The following lists the elements of the written medical report for the employee and written medical opinion for the employer. (Sample forms for the written medical report for the employee, the written medical opinion for the employer, and the written authorization are provided in Section 7 of this Appendix.)
3.1.1. The written medical report for the employee must include the following information:
3.1.1.1. A statement indicating the results of the medical examination, including any medical condition(s) that would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from exposure to respirable crystalline silica and any medical conditions that require further evaluation or treatment;
3.1.1.2. Any recommended limitations upon the employee's use of a respirator;
3.1.1.3. Any recommended limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica; and
3.1.1.4. A statement that the employee should be examined by a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine, where the standard requires or where the PLHCP has determined such a referral is necessary. The standard requires referral to a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine for a chest X-ray B reading indicating small opacities in a profusion of 1/0 or higher, or if the PHLCP determines that referral to a Specialist is necessary for other silica-related findings.
3.1.2. The PLHCP's written medical opinion for the employer must include only the following information:
3.1.2.1. The date of the examination;
3.1.2.2. A statement that the examination has met the requirements of this section; and
3.1.2.3. Any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators.
3.1.2.4. If the employee provides the PLHCP with written authorization, the written opinion for the employer shall also contain either or both of the following:
(1)
Any recommended limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica; and
(2)
A statement that the employee should be examined by a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine if the chest X-ray provided in accordance with this section is classified as 1/0 or higher by the B Reader, or if referral to a Specialist is otherwise deemed appropriate.
3.1.2.5. In addition to the above referral for abnormal chest X-ray, the PLHCP may refer an employee to a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine for other findings of concern during the medical surveillance examination if these findings are potentially related to silica exposure.
3.1.2.6. Although the respirable crystalline silica standard requires the employer to ensure that the PLHCP explains the results of the medical examination to the employee, the standard does not mandate how this should be done. The written medical opinion for the employer could contain a statement that the PLHCP has explained the results of the medical examination to the employee.
3.2. Medical Specialists.
The silica standard requires that all employees with chest X-ray B readings of 1/0 or higher be referred to a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine. If the employee has given written authorization for the employer to be informed, then the employer shall make available a medical examination by a Specialist within 30 days after receiving the PLHCP's written medical opinion.
3.2.1. The employer must provide the following information to the Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine:
3.2.1.1. A description of the employee's former, current, and anticipated duties as they relate to the employee's occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
3.2.1.2. The employee's former, current, and anticipated levels of occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
3.2.1.3. A description of any personal protective equipment used or to be used by the employee, including when and for how long the employee has used or will use that equipment; and
3.2.1.4. Information from records of employment-related medical examinations previously provided to the employee and currently within the control of the employer.
3.2.2. The PLHCP should make certain that, with written authorization from the employee, the Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine has any other pertinent medical and occupational information necessary for the specialist's evaluation of the employee's condition.
3.2.3. Once the Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine has evaluated the employee, the employer must ensure that the Specialist explains to the employee the results of the medical examination and provides the employee with a written medical report within 30 days of the examination. The employer must also ensure that the Specialist provides the employer with a written medical opinion within 30 days of the employee examination. (Sample forms for the written medical report for the employee, the written medical opinion for the employer and the written authorization are provided in Section 7 of this Appendix.)
3.2.4. The Specialist's written medical report for the employee must include the following information:
3.2.4.1. A statement indicating the results of the medical examination, including any medical condition(s) that would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from exposure to respirable crystalline silica and any medical conditions that require further evaluation or treatment;
3.2.4.2. Any recommended limitations upon the employee's use of a respirator; and
3.2.4.3. Any recommended limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
3.2.5. The Specialist's written medical opinion for the employer must include the following information:
3.2.5.1. The date of the examination; and
3.2.5.2. Any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators.
3.2.5.3. If the employee provides the Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine with written authorization, the written medical opinion for the employer shall also contain any recommended limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
3.2.5.4. Although the respirable crystalline silica standard requires the employer to ensure that the Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine explains the results of the medical examination to the employee, the standard does not mandate how this should be done. The written medical opinion for the employer could contain a statement that the Specialist has explained the results of the medical examination to the employee.
3.2.6. After evaluating the employee, the Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine should provide feedback to the PLHCP as appropriate, depending on the reason for the referral. OSHA believes that because the PLHCP has
the primary relationship with the employer and employee, the Specialist may want to communicate his or her findings to the PLHCP and have the PLHCP simply update the original medical report for the employee and medical opinion for the employer. This is permitted under the standard, so long as all requirements and time deadlines are met.
3.3. Public Health Professionals.
PLHCPs might refer employees or consult with public health professionals as a result of silica medical surveillance. For instance, if individual cases of active TB are identified, public health professionals from state or local health departments may assist in diagnosis and treatment of individual cases and may evaluate other potentially affected persons, including coworkers. Because silica-exposed employees are at increased risk of progression from latent to active TB, treatment of latent infection is recommended. The diagnosis of active TB, acute or accelerated silicosis, or other silica-related diseases and infections should serve as sentinel events suggesting high levels of exposure to silica and may require consultation with the appropriate public health agencies to investigate potentially similarly exposed coworkers to assess for disease clusters. These agencies include local or state health departments or OSHA. In addition, NIOSH can provide assistance upon request through their Health Hazard Evaluation program. (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix)

# 4. Confidentiality and Other Considerations
The information that is provided from the PLHCP to the employee and employer under the medical surveillance section of OSHA's respirable crystalline silica standard differs from that of medical surveillance requirements in previous OSHA standards. The standard requires two separate written communications, a written medical report for the employee and a written medical opinion for the employer. The confidentiality requirements for the written medical opinion are more stringent than in past standards. For example, the information the PLHCP can (and must) include in his or her written medical opinion for the employer is limited to: The date of the examination, a statement that the examination has met the requirements of this section, and any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators. If the employee provides written authorization for the disclosure of any limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica, then the PLHCP can (and must) include that information in the written medical opinion for the employer as well. Likewise, with the employee's written authorization, the PLHCP can (and must) disclose the PLHCP's referral recommendation (if any) as part of the written medical opinion for the employer. However, the opinion to the employer must not include information regarding recommended limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica or any referral recommendations without the employee's written authorization.
The standard also places limitations on the information that the Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine can provide to the employer without the employee's written authorization. The Specialist's written medical opinion for the employer, like the PLHCP's opinion, is limited to (and must contain): The date of the examination and any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators. If the employee provides written authorization, the written medical opinion can (and must) also contain any limitations on the employee's exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
The PLHCP should discuss the implication of signing or not signing the authorization with the employee (in a manner and language that he or she understands) so that the employee can make an informed decision regarding the written authorization and its consequences. The discussion should include the risk of ongoing silica exposure, personal risk factors, risk of disease progression, and possible health and economic consequences. For instance, written authorization is required for a PLHCP to advise an employer that an employee should be referred to a Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine for evaluation of an abnormal chest X-ray (B-reading 1/0 or greater). If an employee does not sign an authorization, then the employer will not know and cannot facilitate the referral to a Specialist and is not required to pay for the Specialist's examination. In the rare case where an employee is diagnosed with acute or accelerated silicosis, co-workers are likely to be at significant risk of developing those diseases as a result of inadequate controls in the workplace. In this case, the PLHCP and/or Specialist should explain this concern to the affected employee and make a determined effort to obtain written authorization from the employee so that the PLHCP and/or Specialist can contact the employer.
Finally, without written authorization from the employee, the PLHCP and/or Board Certified Specialist in Pulmonary Disease or Occupational Medicine cannot provide feedback to an employer regarding control of workplace silica exposure, at least in relation to an individual employee. However, the regulation does not prohibit a PLHCP and/or Specialist from providing an employer with general recommendations regarding exposure controls and prevention programs in relation to silica exposure and silica-related illnesses, based on the information that the PLHCP receives from the employer such as
employees' duties and exposure levels. Recommendations may include increased frequency of medical surveillance examinations, additional medical surveillance components, engineering and work practice controls, exposure monitoring and personal protective equipment. For instance, more frequent medical surveillance examinations may be a recommendation to employers for employees who do abrasive blasting with silica because of the high exposures associated with that operation.
ACOEM's Code of Ethics and discussion is a good resource to guide PLHCPs regarding the issues discussed in this section (
See
Section 5 of this Appendix).

# 5. Resources
5.1. American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine (ACOEM):
ACOEM Code of Ethics. Accessed at:
http://www.acoem.org/codeofconduct.aspx
Raymond, L.W. and Wintermeyer, S. (2006) ACOEM evidenced-based statement on medical surveillance of silica-exposed workers: Medical surveillance of workers exposed to crystalline silica.
J Occup Environ Med
, 48, 95-101.
5.2. Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
Tuberculosis Web page:
http://www.cdc.gov/tb/default.htm
State TB Control Offices Web page:
http://www.cdc.gov/tb/links/tboffices.htm
Tuberculosis Laws and Policies Web page:
http://www.cdc.gov/tb/programs/laws/default.htm
CDC. (2013). Latent Tuberculosis Infection: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers. Accessed at:
http://www.cdc.gov/tb/publications/ltbi/pdf/targetedltbi.pdf
5.3. International Labour Organization
International Labour Office (ILO). (2011) Guidelines for the use of the ILO International Classification of Radiographs of Pneumoconioses, Revised edition 2011. Occupational Safety and Health Series No. 22:
http://www.ilo.org/safework/info/publications/WCMS_168260/lang-en/index.htm
5.4. National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
NIOSH B Reader Program Web page. (Information on interpretation of X-rays for silicosis and a list of certified B-readers). Accessed at:
http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/chestradiography/breader-info.html
NIOSH Guideline (2011). Application of Digital Radiography for the Detection and Classification of Pneumoconiosis. NIOSH publication number 2011-198. Accessed at:
http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2011-198/
NIOSH Hazard Review (2002), Health Effects of Occupational Exposure to Respirable Crystalline Silica. NIOSH publication number 2002-129: Accessed at
http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2002-129/
NIOSH Health Hazard Evaluations Programs. (Information on the NIOSH Health Hazard Evaluation (HHE) program, how to request an HHE and how to look up an HHE report). Accessed at:
http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/hhe/
5.5. National Industrial Sand Association:
Occupational Health Program for Exposure to Crystalline Silica in the Industrial Sand Industry. National Industrial Sand Association, 2nd ed. 2010. Can be ordered at:
http://www.sand.org/silica-occupational-health-program
5.6. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
Contacting OSHA:
http://www.osha.gov/html/Feed_Back.html
OSHA's Clinicians Web page. (OSHA resources, regulations and links to help clinicians navigate OSHA's Web site and aid clinicians in caring for workers.) Accessed at:
http://www.osha.gov/dts/oom/clinicians/index.html
OSHA's Safety and Health Topics Web page on Silica. Accessed at:
http://www.osha.gov/dsg/topics/silicacrystalline/index.html
OSHA (2013). Spirometry Testing in Occupational Health Programs: Best Practices for Healthcare Professionals. (OSHA 3637-03 2013). Accessed at:
http://www.osha.gov/Publications/OSHA3637.pdf
OSHA/NIOSH (2011). Spirometry: OSHA/NIOSH Spirometry InfoSheet (OSHA 3415-1-11). (Provides guidance to employers). Accessed at
http://www.osha.gov/Publications/osha3415.pdf
OSHA/NIOSH (2011) Spirometry: OSHA/NIOSH Spirometry Worker Info. (OSHA 3418-3-11). Accessed at
http://www.osha.gov/Publications/osha3418.pdf
5.7. Other
Steenland, K. and Ward E. (2014). Silica: A lung carcinogen.
CA Cancer J Clin
, 64, 63-69. (This article reviews not only silica and lung cancer but also all the known silica-related health effects. Further, the authors provide guidance to clinicians on medical surveillance of silica-exposed workers and worker counselling on safety practices to minimize silica exposure.)

# 6. References
American Thoracic Society (ATS). Medical Section of the American Lung Association (1997). Adverse effects of crystalline silica exposure.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med
, 155, 761-765.
American Thoracic Society (ATS), Centers for Disease Control (CDC), Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) (2005). Controlling Tuberculosis in the United States.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report (MMWR)
, 54(RR12), 1-81. Accessed at:
http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr5412a1.htm
Brown, T. (2009). Silica exposure, smoking, silicosis and lung cancer—complex interactions.
Occupational Medicine
, 59, 89-95.
Halldin, C.N., Petsonk, E.L., and Laney, A.S. (2014). Validation of the International Labour Office digitized standard images for recognition and classification of radiographs of pneumoconiosis.
Acad Radiol
, 21, 305-311.
International Agency for Research on Cancer. (2012). Monographs on the evaluation of carcinogenic risks to humans: Arsenic, Metals, Fibers, and Dusts Silica Dust, Crystalline, in the Form of Quartz or Cristobalite. A Review of Human Carcinogens. Volume 100 C. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization.
Jalloul, A.S. and Banks D.E. (2007). Chapter 23. The health effects of silica exposure. In: Rom, W.N. and Markowitz, S.B. (Eds). Environmental and Occupational Medicine, 4th edition. Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins, Philadelphia, 365-387.
Kramer, M.R., Blanc, P.D., Fireman, E., Amital, A., Guber, A., Rahman, N.A., and Shitrit, D. (2012). Artifical stone silicosis: Disease resurgence among artificial stone workers.
Chest
, 142, 419-424.
Laney, A.S., Petsonk, E.L., and Attfield, M.D. (2011). Intramodality and intermodality comparisons of storage phosphor computed radiography and conventional film-screen radiography in the recognition of small pneumonconiotic opacities.
Chest
, 140, 1574-1580.
Liu, Y., Steenland, K., Rong, Y., Hnizdo, E., Huang, X., Zhang, H., Shi, T., Sun, Y., Wu, T., and Chen, W. (2013). Exposure-response analysis and risk assessment for lung cancer in relationship to silica exposure: A 44-year cohort study of 34,018 workers.
Am J Epi
, 178, 1424-1433.
Liu, Y., Rong, Y., Steenland, K., Christiani, D.C., Huang, X., Wu, T., and Chen, W. (2014). Long-term exposure to crystalline silica and risk of heart disease mortality.
Epidemiology
, 25, 689-696.
Mazurek, G.H., Jereb, J., Vernon, A., LoBue, P., Goldberg, S., Castro, K. (2010). Updated guidelines for using interferon gamma release assays to detect Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection—United States.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR)
, 59(RR05), 1-25.
Miller, M.R., Hankinson, J., Brusasco, V., Burgos, F., Casaburi, R., Coates, A., Crapo, R., Enright, P., van der Grinten, C.P., Gustafsson, P., Jensen, R., Johnson, D.C., MacIntyre, N., McKay, R., Navajas, D., Pedersen, O.F., Pellegrino, R., Viegi, G., and Wanger, J. (2005). American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society (ATS/ERS) Task Force: Standardisation of Spirometry.
Eur Respir J
, 26, 319-338.
National Toxicology Program (NTP) (2014). Report on Carcinogens, Thirteenth Edition. Silica, Crystalline (respirable Size). Research Triangle Park, NC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service.
http://ntp.niehs.nih.gov/ntp/roc/content/profiles/silica.pdf
Occupational Safety and Health Administration/National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA/NIOSH) (2012). Hazard Alert. Worker exposure to silica during hydraulic fracturing.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration/National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA/NIOSH) (2015). Hazard alert. Worker exposure to silica during countertop manufacturing, finishing, and installation. (OSHA-HA-3768-2015).
Redlich, C.A., Tarlo, S.M., Hankinson, J.L., Townsend, M.C, Eschenbacher, W.L., Von Essen, S.G., Sigsgaard, T., Weissman, D.N. (2014). Official American Thoracic Society technical standards: Spirometry in the occupational setting.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med
; 189, 984-994.
Rees, D. and Murray, J. (2007). Silica, silicosis and tuberculosis.
Int J Tuberc Lung Dis
, 11(5), 474-484.
Shtraichman, O., Blanc, P.D., Ollech, J.E., Fridel, L., Fuks, L., Fireman, E., and Kramer, M.R. (2015). Outbreak of autoimmune disease in silicosis linked to artificial stone.
Occup Med
, 65, 444-450.
Slater, M.L., Welland, G., Pai, M., Parsonnet, J., and Banaei, N. (2013). Challenges with QuantiFERON-TB gold assay for large-scale, routine screening of U.S. healthcare workers.
Am J Respir Crit Care Med,
188,1005-1010.
Steenland, K., Mannetje, A., Boffetta, P., Stayner, L., Attfield, M., Chen, J., Dosemeci, M., DeKlerk, N., Hnizdo, E., Koskela, R., and Checkoway, H. (2001). International Agency for Research on Cancer. Pooled exposure-response analyses and risk assessment for lung cancer in 10 cohorts of silica-exposed workers: An IARC multicentre study.
Cancer Causes Control,
12(9): 773-84.
Steenland, K. and Ward E. (2014). Silica: A lung carcinogen.
CA Cancer J Clin,
64, 63-69.
Townsend, M.C. ACOEM Guidance Statement. (2011). Spirometry in the occupational health setting—2011 Update.
J Occup Environ Med,
53, 569-584.

# 7. Sample Forms
Three sample forms are provided. The first is a sample written medical report for the employee. The second is a sample written medical opinion for the employer. And the third is a sample written authorization form
that employees sign to clarify what information the employee is authorizing to be released to the employer.
ER25MR16.175
ER25MR16.176
ER25MR16.177
[81 FR 16876, Mar. 25, 2016]

# Subpart AA—Confined Spaces in Construction

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.;
29 U.S.C. 653, 655, 657; Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1-2012 (77 FR 3912); and 29 CFR part 1911.

# Source:
80 FR 25518, May 4, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1926.1200
[Reserved]
§ 1926.1201
Scope.
(a) This standard sets forth requirements for practices and procedures to
protect employees engaged in construction activities at a worksite with one or more confined spaces, subject to the exceptions in paragraph (b) of this section.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ).
Examples of locations where confined spaces may occur include, but are not limited to, the following: Bins; boilers; pits (such as elevator, escalator, pump, valve or other equipment); manholes (such as sewer, storm drain, electrical, communication, or other utility); tanks (such as fuel, chemical, water, or other liquid, solid or gas); incinerators; scrubbers; concrete pier columns; sewers; transformer vaults; heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) ducts; storm drains; water mains; precast concrete and other pre-formed manhole units; drilled shafts; enclosed beams; vessels; digesters; lift stations; cesspools; silos; air receivers; sludge gates; air preheaters; step up transformers; turbines; chillers; bag houses; and/or mixers/reactors.
(b)
Exceptions.
This standard does not apply to:
(1) Construction work regulated by subpart P of this part (Excavations).
(2) Construction work regulated by subpart S of this part (Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air).
(3) Construction work regulated by subpart Y of this part (Diving).
(c) Where this standard applies and there is a provision that addresses a confined space hazard in another applicable OSHA standard, the employer must comply with both that requirement and the applicable provisions of this standard.
§ 1926.1202
Definitions.
The following terms are defined for the purposes of this subpart only:
Acceptable entry conditions
means the conditions that must exist in a permit space, before an employee may enter that space, to ensure that employees can safely enter into, and safely work within, the space.
Attendant
means an individual stationed outside one or more permit spaces who assesses the status of authorized entrants and who must perform the duties specified in § 1926.1209.
Authorized entrant
means an employee who is authorized by the entry supervisor to enter a permit space.
Barrier
means a physical obstruction that blocks or limits access.
Blanking
or
blinding
means the absolute closure of a pipe, line, or duct by the fastening of a solid plate (such as a spectacle blind or a skillet blind) that completely covers the bore and that is capable of withstanding the maximum pressure of the pipe, line, or duct with no leakage beyond the plate.
Competent person
means one who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings or working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to employees, and who has the authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them.
Confined space
means a space that:
(1) Is large enough and so configured that an employee can bodily enter it;
(2) Has limited or restricted means for entry and exit; and
(3) Is not designed for continuous employee occupancy.
Control
means the action taken to reduce the level of any hazard inside a confined space using engineering methods (for example, by ventilation), and then using these methods to maintain the reduced hazard level. Control also refers to the engineering methods used for this purpose. Personal protective equipment is not a control.
Controlling Contractor
is the employer that has overall responsibility for construction at the worksite.

# Note to the definition of “Controlling Contractor”.
If the controlling contractor owns or manages the property, then it is both a controlling employer and a host employer.
Double block and bleed
means the closure of a line, duct, or pipe by closing and locking or tagging two in-line valves and by opening and locking or tagging a drain or vent valve in the line between the two closed valves.
Early-warning system
means the method used to alert authorized entrants and attendants that an engulfment hazard may be developing. Examples of early-warning systems include, but are not limited to: Alarms activated by remote sensors; and lookouts with equipment for immediately communicating with the authorized entrants and attendants.
Emergency
means any occurrence (including any failure of power, hazard control or monitoring equipment) or event, internal or external, to the permit space that could endanger entrants.
Engulfment
means the surrounding and effective capture of a person by a liquid or finely divided (flowable) solid substance that can be aspirated to cause death by filling or plugging the respiratory system or that can exert enough force on the body to cause death by strangulation, constriction, crushing, or suffocation.
Entry
means the action by which any part of a person passes through an opening into a permit-required confined space. Entry includes ensuing work activities in that space and is considered to have occurred as soon as any part of the entrant's body breaks the plane of an opening into the space, whether or not such action is intentional or any work activities are actually performed in the space.
Entry Employer
means any employer who decides that an employee it directs will enter a permit space.

# Note to the definition of “Entry Employer”.
An employer cannot avoid the duties of the standard merely by refusing to decide whether its employees will enter a permit space, and OSHA will consider the failure to so decide to be an implicit decision to allow employees to enter those spaces if they are working in the proximity of the space.
Entry permit
(permit) means the written or printed document that is provided by the employer who designated the space a permit space to allow and control entry into a permit space and that contains the information specified in § 1926.1206.
Entry rescue
occurs when a rescue service enters a permit space to rescue one or more employees.
Entry supervisor
means the qualified person (such as the employer, foreman, or crew chief) responsible for determining if acceptable entry conditions are present at a permit space where entry is planned, for authorizing entry and overseeing entry operations, and for terminating entry as required by this standard.

# Note to the definition of “Entry supervisor”
An entry supervisor also may serve as an attendant or as an authorized entrant, as long as that person is trained and equipped as required by this standard for each role he or she fills. Also, the duties of entry supervisor may be passed from one individual to another during the course of an entry operation.
Hazard
means a physical hazard or hazardous atmosphere. See definitions below.
Hazardous atmosphere
means an atmosphere that may expose employees to the risk of death, incapacitation, impairment of ability to self-rescue (that is, escape unaided from a permit space), injury, or acute illness from one or more of the following causes:
(1) Flammable gas, vapor, or mist in excess of 10 percent of its lower flammable limit (LFL);
(2) Airborne combustible dust at a concentration that meets or exceeds its LFL;

# Note to paragraph (2) of the definition of “Hazardous atmosphere”.
This concentration may be approximated as a condition in which the combustible dust obscures vision at a distance of 5 feet (1.52 meters) or less.
(3) Atmospheric oxygen concentration below 19.5 percent or above 23.5 percent;
(4) Atmospheric concentration of any substance for which a dose or a permissible exposure limit is published in subpart D of this part (Occupational Health and Environmental Control), or in subpart Z of this part (Toxic and Hazardous Substances), and which could result in employee exposure in excess of its dose or permissible exposure limit;

# Note to paragraph (4) of the definition of “Hazardous atmosphere”.
An atmospheric concentration of any substance that is not capable of causing death, incapacitation, impairment of ability to self-rescue, injury, or acute illness due to its health effects is not covered by this definition.
(5) Any other atmospheric condition that is immediately dangerous to life or health.

# Note to paragraph (5) of the definition of “Hazardous atmosphere”.
For air contaminants for which OSHA has not determined a dose or permissible exposure limit, other sources of information, such as Safety Data Sheets that comply with the Hazard Communication Standard, § 1926.59, published information, and internal documents can
provide guidance in establishing acceptable atmospheric conditions.
Host employer
means the employer that owns or manages the property where the construction work is taking place.

# Note to the definition of “Host employer”.
If the owner of the property on which the construction activity occurs has contracted with an entity for the general management of that property, and has transferred to that entity the information specified in § 1926.1203(h)(1), OSHA will treat the contracted management entity as the host employer for as long as that entity manages the property. Otherwise, OSHA will treat the owner of the property as the host employer. In no case will there be more than one host employer.
Hot work
means operations capable of providing a source of ignition (for example, riveting, welding, cutting, burning, and heating).
Immediately dangerous to life or health (IDLH)
means any condition that would interfere with an individual's ability to escape unaided from a permit space and that poses a threat to life or that would cause irreversible adverse health effects.

# Note to the definition of “Immediately dangerous to life or health”.
Some materials—hydrogen fluoride gas and cadmium vapor, for example—may produce immediate transient effects that, even if severe, may pass without medical attention, but are followed by sudden, possibly fatal collapse 12-72 hours after exposure. The victim “feels normal” after recovery from transient effects until collapse. Such materials in hazardous quantities are considered to be “immediately” dangerous to life or health.
Inerting
means displacing the atmosphere in a permit space by a noncombustible gas (such as nitrogen) to such an extent that the resulting atmosphere is noncombustible.

# Note to the definition of “Intering”.
This procedure produces an IDLH oxygen-deficient atmosphere.
Isolate or isolation
means the process by which employees in a confined space are completely protected against the release of energy and material into the space, and contact with a physical hazard, by such means as: Blanking or blinding; misaligning or removing sections of lines, pipes, or ducts; a double block and bleed system; lockout or tagout of all sources of energy; blocking or disconnecting all mechanical linkages; or placement of barriers to eliminate the potential for employee contact with a physical hazard.
Limited or restricted means for entry or exit
means a condition that has a potential to impede an employee's movement into or out of a confined space. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, trip hazards, poor illumination, slippery floors, inclining surfaces and ladders.
Line breaking
means the intentional opening of a pipe, line, or duct that is or has been carrying flammable, corrosive, or toxic material, an inert gas, or any fluid at a volume, pressure, or temperature capable of causing injury.
Lockout
means the placement of a lockout device on an energy isolating device, in accordance with an established procedure, ensuring that the energy isolating device and the equipment being controlled cannot be operated until the lockout device is removed.
Lower flammable limit or lower explosive limit
means the minimum concentration of a substance in air needed for an ignition source to cause a flame or explosion.
Monitor
or
monitoring
means the process used to identify and evaluate the hazards after an authorized entrant enters the space. This is a process of checking for changes that is performed in a periodic or continuous manner after the completion of the initial testing or evaluation of that space.
Non-entry rescue
occurs when a rescue service, usually the attendant, retrieves employees in a permit space without entering the permit space.
Non-permit confined space
means a confined space that meets the definition of a confined space but does not meet the requirements for a permit-required confined space, as defined in this subpart.
Oxygen deficient atmosphere
means an atmosphere containing less than 19.5 percent oxygen by volume.
Oxygen enriched atmosphere
means an atmosphere containing more than 23.5 percent oxygen by volume.
Permit-required confined space
(permit space) means a confined space that has
one or more of the following characteristics:
(1) Contains or has a potential to contain a hazardous atmosphere;
(2) Contains a material that has the potential for engulfing an entrant;
(3) Has an internal configuration such that an entrant could be trapped or asphyxiated by inwardly converging walls or by a floor which slopes downward and tapers to a smaller cross-section; or
(4) Contains any other recognized serious safety or health hazard.
Permit-required confined space program
(permit space program) means the employer's overall program for controlling, and, where appropriate, for protecting employees from, permit space hazards and for regulating employee entry into permit spaces.
Physical hazard
means an existing or potential hazard that can cause death or serious physical damage. Examples include, but are not limited to: Explosives (as defined by paragraph (n) of § 1926.914, definition of “explosive”); mechanical, electrical, hydraulic and pneumatic energy; radiation; temperature extremes; engulfment; noise; and inwardly converging surfaces. Physical hazard also includes chemicals that can cause death or serious physical damage through skin or eye contact (rather than through inhalation).
Prohibited condition
means any condition in a permit space that is not allowed by the permit during the period when entry is authorized. A hazardous atmosphere is a prohibited condition unless the employer can demonstrate that personal protective equipment (PPE) will provide effective protection for each employee in the permit space and provides the appropriate PPE to each employee.
Qualified person
means one who, by possession of a recognized degree, certificate, or professional standing, or who by extensive knowledge, training, and experience, has successfully demonstrated his ability to solve or resolve problems relating to the subject matter, the work, or the project.
Representative permit space
means a mock-up of a confined space that has entrance openings that are similar to, and is of similar size, configuration, and accessibility to, the permit space that authorized entrants enter.
Rescue
means retrieving, and providing medical assistance to, one or more employees who are in a permit space.
Rescue service
means the personnel designated to rescue employees from permit spaces.
Retrieval system
means the equipment (including a retrieval line, chest or full body harness, wristlets or anklets, if appropriate, and a lifting device or anchor) used for non-entry rescue of persons from permit spaces.
Serious physical damage
means an impairment or illness in which a body part is made functionally useless or is substantially reduced in efficiency. Such impairment or illness may be permanent or temporary and includes, but is not limited to, loss of consciousness, disorientation, or other immediate and substantial reduction in mental efficiency. Injuries involving such impairment would usually require treatment by a physician or other licensed health-care professional.
Tagout
means:
(1) Placement of a tagout device on a circuit or equipment that has been deenergized, in accordance with an established procedure, to indicate that the circuit or equipment being controlled may not be operated until the tagout device is removed; and
(2) The employer ensures that:
(i) Tagout provides equivalent protection to lockout; or
(ii) That lockout is infeasible and the employer has relieved, disconnected, restrained and otherwise rendered safe stored (residual) energy.
Test or testing
means the process by which the hazards that may confront entrants of a permit space are identified and evaluated. Testing includes specifying the tests that are to be performed in the permit space.

# Note to the definition of “Test or testing”.
Testing enables employers both to devise and implement adequate control measures for the protection of authorized entrants and to determine if acceptable entry conditions are present immediately prior to, and during, entry.
Ventilate
or
ventilation
means controlling a hazardous atmosphere using continuous forced-air mechanical systems
that meet the requirements of § 1926.57 (Ventilation).
§ 1926.1203
General requirements.
(a) Before it begins work at a worksite, each employer must ensure that a competent person identifies all confined spaces in which one or more of the employees it directs may work, and identifies each space that is a permit space, through consideration and evaluation of the elements of that space, including testing as necessary.
(b) If the workplace contains one or more permit spaces, the employer who identifies, or who receives notice of, a permit space must:
(1) Inform exposed employees by posting danger signs or by any other equally effective means, of the existence and location of, and the danger posed by, each permit space; and

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(1).
A sign reading “DANGER—PERMIT-REQUIRED CONFINED SPACE, DO NOT ENTER” or using other similar language would satisfy the requirement for a sign.
(2) Inform, in a timely manner and in a manner other than posting, its employees' authorized representatives and the controlling contractor of the existence and location of, and the danger posed by, each permit space.
(c) Each employer who identifies, or receives notice of, a permit space and has not authorized employees it directs to work in that space must take effective measures to prevent those employees from entering that permit space, in addition to complying with all other applicable requirements of this standard.
(d) If any employer decides that employees it directs will enter a permit space, that employer must have a written permit space program that complies with § 1926.1204 implemented at the construction site. The written program must be made available prior to and during entry operations for inspection by employees and their authorized representatives.
(e) An employer may use the alternate procedures specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section for entering a permit space only under the conditions set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(1) An employer whose employees enter a permit space need not comply with §§ 1926.1204 through 1206 and §§ 1926.1208 through 1211, provided that all of the following conditions are met:
(i) The employer can demonstrate that all physical hazards in the space are eliminated or isolated through engineering controls so that the only hazard posed by the permit space is an actual or potential hazardous atmosphere;
(ii) The employer can demonstrate that continuous forced air ventilation alone is sufficient to maintain that permit space safe for entry, and that, in the event the ventilation system stops working, entrants can exit the space safely;
(iii) The employer develops monitoring and inspection data that supports the demonstrations required by paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(iv) If an initial entry of the permit space is necessary to obtain the data required by paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, the entry is performed in compliance with §§ 1926.1204 through 1926.1211;
(v) The determinations and supporting data required by paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section are documented by the employer and are made available to each employee who enters the permit space under the terms of paragraph (e) of this section or to that employee's authorized representative; and
(vi) Entry into the permit space under the terms of paragraph (e)(1) of this section is performed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

# Note to paragraph (
e

# )(1).
See paragraph (g) of this section for reclassification of a permit space after all hazards within the space have been eliminated.
(2) The following requirements apply to entry into permit spaces that meet the conditions set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section:
(i) Any conditions making it unsafe to remove an entrance cover must be eliminated before the cover is removed.
(ii) When entrance covers are removed, the opening must be immediately guarded by a railing, temporary cover, or other temporary barrier that will prevent an accidental fall through the opening and that will protect each
employee working in the space from foreign objects entering the space.
(iii) Before an employee enters the space, the internal atmosphere must be tested, with a calibrated direct-reading instrument, for oxygen content, for flammable gases and vapors, and for potential toxic air contaminants, in that order. Any employee who enters the space, or that employee's authorized representative, must be provided an opportunity to observe the pre-entry testing required by this paragraph.
(iv) No hazardous atmosphere is permitted within the space whenever any employee is inside the space.
(v) Continuous forced air ventilation must be used, as follows:
(A) An employee must not enter the space until the forced air ventilation has eliminated any hazardous atmosphere;
(B) The forced air ventilation must be so directed as to ventilate the immediate areas where an employee is or will be present within the space and must continue until all employees have left the space;
(C) The air supply for the forced air ventilation must be from a clean source and must not increase the hazards in the space.
(vi) The atmosphere within the space must be continuously monitored unless the entry employer can demonstrate that equipment for continuous monitoring is not commercially available or periodic monitoring is sufficient. If continuous monitoring is used, the employer must ensure that the monitoring equipment has an alarm that will notify all entrants if a specified atmospheric threshold is achieved, or that an employee will check the monitor with sufficient frequency to ensure that entrants have adequate time to escape. If continuous monitoring is not used, periodic monitoring is required. All monitoring must ensure that the continuous forced air ventilation is preventing the accumulation of a hazardous atmosphere. Any employee who enters the space, or that employee's authorized representative, must be provided with an opportunity to observe the testing required by this paragraph (e)(2)(vi).
(vii) If a hazard is detected during entry:
(A) Each employee must leave the space immediately;
(B) The space must be evaluated to determine how the hazard developed; and
(C) The employer must implement measures to protect employees from the hazard before any subsequent entry takes place.
(viii) The employer must ensure a safe method of entering and exiting the space. If a hoisting system is used, it must be designed and manufactured for personnel hoisting; however, a job-made hoisting system is permissible if it is approved for personnel hoisting by a registered professional engineer, in writing, prior to use.
(ix) The employer must verify that the space is safe for entry and that the pre-entry measures required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section have been taken, through a written certification that contains the date, the location of the space, and the signature of the person providing the certification. The certification must be made before entry and must be made available to each employee entering the space or to that employee's authorized representative.
(f) When there are changes in the use or configuration of a non-permit confined space that might increase the hazards to entrants, or some indication that the initial evaluation of the space may not have been adequate, each entry employer must have a competent person reevaluate that space and, if necessary, reclassify it as a permit-required confined space.
(g) A space classified by an employer as a permit-required confined space may only be reclassified as a non-permit confined space when a competent person determines that all of the applicable requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section have been met:
(1) If the permit space poses no actual or potential atmospheric hazards and if all hazards within the space are eliminated or isolated without entry into the space (unless the employer can demonstrate that doing so without entry is infeasible), the permit space may be reclassified as a non-permit
confined space for as long as the non-atmospheric hazards remain eliminated or isolated;
(2) The entry employer must eliminate or isolate the hazards without entering the space, unless it can demonstrate that this is infeasible. If it is necessary to enter the permit space to eliminate or isolate hazards, such entry must be performed under §§ 1926.1204 through 1926.1211. If testing and inspection during that entry demonstrate that the hazards within the permit space have been eliminated or isolated, the permit space may be reclassified as a non-permit confined space for as long as the hazards remain eliminated or isolated;

# Note to paragraph (
g

# )(2).
Control of atmospheric hazards through forced air ventilation does not constitute elimination or isolation of the hazards. Paragraph (e) of this section covers permit space entry where the employer can demonstrate that forced air ventilation alone will control all hazards in the space.
(3) The entry employer must document the basis for determining that all hazards in a permit space have been eliminated or isolated, through a certification that contains the date, the location of the space, and the signature of the person making the determination. The certification must be made available to each employee entering the space or to that employee's authorized representative; and
(4) If hazards arise within a permit space that has been reclassified as a non-permit space under paragraph (g) of this section, each employee in the space must exit the space. The entry employer must then reevaluate the space and reclassify it as a permit space as appropriate in accordance with all other applicable provisions of this standard.
(h)
Permit space entry communication and coordination.
(1) Before entry operations begin, the host employer must provide the following information, if it has it, to the controlling contractor:
(i) The location of each known permit space;
(ii) The hazards or potential hazards in each space or the reason it is a permit space; and
(iii) Any precautions that the host employer or any previous controlling contractor or entry employer implemented for the protection of employees in the permit space.
(2) Before entry operations begin, the controlling contractor must:
(i) Obtain the host employer's information about the permit space hazards and previous entry operations; and
(ii) Provide the following information to each entity entering a permit space and any other entity at the worksite whose activities could foreseeably result in a hazard in the permit space:
(A) The information received from the host employer;
(B) Any additional information the controlling contractor has about the subjects listed in paragraph (h)(1) of this section; and
(C) The precautions that the host employer, controlling contractor, or other entry employers implemented for the protection of employees in the permit spaces.
(3) Before entry operations begin, each entry employer must:
(i) Obtain all of the controlling contractor's information regarding permit space hazards and entry operations; and
(ii) Inform the controlling contractor of the permit space program that the entry employer will follow, including any hazards likely to be confronted or created in each permit space.
(4) The controlling contractor and entry employer(s) must coordinate entry operations when:
(i) More than one entity performs permit space entry at the same time; or
(ii) Permit space entry is performed at the same time that any activities that could foreseeably result in a hazard in the permit space are performed.
(5) After entry operations:
(i) The controlling contractor must debrief each entity that entered a permit space regarding the permit space program followed and any hazards confronted or created in the permit space(s) during entry operations;
(ii) The entry employer must inform the controlling contractor in a timely manner of the permit space program followed and of any hazards confronted or created in the permit space(s) during entry operations; and
(iii) The controlling contractor must apprise the host employer of the information exchanged with the entry entities pursuant to this subparagraph.

# Note to paragraph (
h

# ).
Unless a host employer or controlling contractor has or will have employees in a confined space, it is not required to enter any confined space to collect the information specified in this paragraph (h).
(i) If there is no controlling contractor present at the worksite, the requirements for, and role of, controlling contactors in this section must be fulfilled by the host employer or other employer who arranges to have employees of another employer perform work that involves permit space entry.
§ 1926.1204
Permit-required confined space program.
Each entry employer must:
(a) Implement the measures necessary to prevent unauthorized entry;
(b) Identify and evaluate the hazards of permit spaces before employees enter them;
(c) Develop and implement the means, procedures, and practices necessary for safe permit space entry operations, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Specifying acceptable entry conditions;
(2) Providing each authorized entrant or that employee's authorized representative with the opportunity to observe any monitoring or testing of permit spaces;
(3) Isolating the permit space and physical hazard(s) within the space;
(4) Purging, inerting, flushing, or ventilating the permit space as necessary to eliminate or control atmospheric hazards;

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(4).
When an employer is unable to reduce the atmosphere below 10 percent LFL, the employer may only enter if the employer inerts the space so as to render the entire atmosphere in the space non-combustible, and the employees use PPE to address any other atmospheric hazards (such as oxygen deficiency), and the employer eliminates or isolates all physical hazards in the space.
(5) Determining that, in the event the ventilation system stops working, the monitoring procedures will detect an increase in atmospheric hazard levels in sufficient time for the entrants to safely exit the permit space;
(6) Providing pedestrian, vehicle, or other barriers as necessary to protect entrants from external hazards;
(7) Verifying that conditions in the permit space are acceptable for entry throughout the duration of an authorized entry, and ensuring that employees are not allowed to enter into, or remain in, a permit space with a hazardous atmosphere unless the employer can demonstrate that personal protective equipment (PPE) will provide effective protection for each employee in the permit space and provides the appropriate PPE to each employee; and
(8) Eliminating any conditions (for example, high pressure) that could make it unsafe to remove an entrance cover.
(d) Provide the following equipment (specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section) at no cost to each employee, maintain that equipment properly, and ensure that each employee uses that equipment properly:
(1) Testing and monitoring equipment needed to comply with paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) Ventilating equipment needed to obtain acceptable entry conditions;
(3) Communications equipment necessary for compliance with §§ 1926.1208(c) and 1926.1209(e), including any necessary electronic communication equipment for attendants assessing entrants' status in multiple spaces;
(4) Personal protective equipment insofar as feasible engineering and work-practice controls do not adequately protect employees;

# Note to paragraph (
d

# )(4).
The requirements of subpart E of this part and other PPE requirements continue to apply to the use of PPE in a permit space. For example, if employees use respirators, then the respirator requirements in § 1926.103 (Respiratory protection) must be met.
(5) Lighting equipment that meets the minimum illumination requirements in § 1926.56, that is approved for the ignitable or combustible properties of the specific gas, vapor, dust, or fiber that will be present, and that is sufficient to enable employees to see well enough to work safely and to exit the space quickly in an emergency;
(6) Barriers and shields as required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section;
(7) Equipment, such as ladders, needed for safe ingress and egress by authorized entrants;
(8) Rescue and emergency equipment needed to comply with paragraph (i) of this section, except to the extent that the equipment is provided by rescue services; and
(9) Any other equipment necessary for safe entry into, safe exit from, and rescue from, permit spaces.
(e) Evaluate permit space conditions in accordance with the following paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section when entry operations are conducted:
(1) Test conditions in the permit space to determine if acceptable entry conditions exist before changes to the space's natural ventilation are made, and before entry is authorized to begin, except that, if an employer demonstrates that isolation of the space is infeasible because the space is large or is part of a continuous system (such as a sewer), the employer must:
(i) Perform pre-entry testing to the extent feasible before entry is authorized; and,
(ii) If entry is authorized, continuously monitor entry conditions in the areas where authorized entrants are working, except that employers may use periodic monitoring in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section for monitoring an atmospheric hazard if they can demonstrate that equipment for continuously monitoring that hazard is not commercially available;
(iii) Provide an early-warning system that continuously monitors for non-isolated engulfment hazards. The system must alert authorized entrants and attendants in sufficient time for the authorized entrants to safely exit the space.
(2) Continuously monitor atmospheric hazards unless the employer can demonstrate that the equipment for continuously monitoring a hazard is not commercially available or that periodic monitoring is of sufficient frequency to ensure that the atmospheric hazard is being controlled at safe levels. If continuous monitoring is not used, periodic monitoring is required with sufficient frequency to ensure that acceptable entry conditions are being maintained during the course of entry operations;
(3) When testing for atmospheric hazards, test first for oxygen, then for combustible gases and vapors, and then for toxic gases and vapors;
(4) Provide each authorized entrant or that employee's authorized representative an opportunity to observe the pre-entry and any subsequent testing or monitoring of permit spaces;
(5) Reevaluate the permit space in the presence of any authorized entrant or that employee's authorized representative who requests that the employer conduct such reevaluation because there is some indication that the evaluation of that space may not have been adequate; and
(6) Immediately provide each authorized entrant or that employee's authorized representative with the results of any testing conducted in accordance with this section.
(f) Provide at least one attendant outside the permit space into which entry is authorized for the duration of entry operations:
(1) Attendants may be assigned to more than one permit space provided the duties described in § 1926.1209 can be effectively performed for each permit space.
(2) Attendants may be stationed at any location outside the permit space as long as the duties described in § 1926.1209 can be effectively performed for each permit space to which the attendant is assigned.
(g) If multiple spaces are to be assigned to a single attendant, include in the permit program the means and procedures to enable the attendant to respond to an emergency affecting one or more of those permit spaces without distraction from the attendant's responsibilities under § 1926.1209;
(h) Designate each person who is to have an active role (as, for example, authorized entrants, attendants, entry supervisors, or persons who test or monitor the atmosphere in a permit space) in entry operations, identify the duties of each such employee, and provide each such employee with the training required by § 1926.1207;
(i) Develop and implement procedures for summoning rescue and emergency services (including procedures
for summoning emergency assistance in the event of a failed non-entry rescue), for rescuing entrants from permit spaces, for providing necessary emergency services to rescued employees, and for preventing unauthorized personnel from attempting a rescue;
(j) Develop and implement a system for the preparation, issuance, use, and cancellation of entry permits as required by this standard, including the safe termination of entry operations under both planned and emergency conditions;
(k) Develop and implement procedures to coordinate entry operations, in consultation with the controlling contractor, when employees of more than one employer are working simultaneously in a permit space or elsewhere on the worksite where their activities could, either alone or in conjunction with the activities within a permit space, foreseeably result in a hazard within the confined space, so that employees of one employer do not endanger the employees of any other employer;
(l) Develop and implement procedures (such as closing off a permit space and canceling the permit) necessary for concluding the entry after entry operations have been completed;
(m) Review entry operations when the measures taken under the permit space program may not protect employees and revise the program to correct deficiencies found to exist before subsequent entries are authorized; and

# Note to paragraph (
m

# ).
Examples of circumstances requiring the review of the permit space program include, but are not limited to: Any unauthorized entry of a permit space, the detection of a permit space hazard not covered by the permit, the detection of a condition prohibited by the permit, the occurrence of an injury or near-miss during entry, a change in the use or configuration of a permit space, and employee complaints about the effectiveness of the program.
(n) Review the permit space program, using the canceled permits retained under § 1926.1205(f), within 1 year after each entry and revise the program as necessary to ensure that employees participating in entry operations are protected from permit space hazards.

# Note to paragraph (
n

# ).
Employers may perform a single annual review covering all entries performed during a 12-month period. If no entry is performed during a 12-month period, no review is necessary.
§ 1926.1205
Permitting process.
(a) Before entry is authorized, each entry employer must document the completion of measures required by § 1926.1204(c) by preparing an entry permit.
(b) Before entry begins, the entry supervisor identified on the permit must sign the entry permit to authorize entry.
(c) The completed permit must be made available at the time of entry to all authorized entrants or their authorized representatives, by posting it at the entry portal or by any other equally effective means, so that the entrants can confirm that pre-entry preparations have been completed.
(d) The duration of the permit may not exceed the time required to complete the assigned task or job identified on the permit in accordance with § 1926.1206(b).
(e) The entry supervisor must terminate entry and take the following action when any of the following apply:
(1) Cancel the entry permit when the entry operations covered by the entry permit have been completed; or
(2) Suspend or cancel the entry permit and fully reassess the space before allowing reentry when a condition that is not allowed under the entry permit arises in or near the permit space and that condition is temporary in nature and does not change the configuration of the space or create any new hazards within it; and
(3) Cancel the entry permit when a condition that is not allowed under the entry permit arises in or near the permit space and that condition is not covered by paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(f) The entry employer must retain each canceled entry permit for at least 1 year to facilitate the review of the permit-required confined space program required by § 1926.1204(n). Any problems encountered during an entry operation must be noted on the pertinent permit so that appropriate revisions to the permit space program can be made.
§ 1926.1206
Entry permit.
The entry permit that documents compliance with this section and authorizes entry to a permit space must identify:
(a) The permit space to be entered;
(b) The purpose of the entry;
(c) The date and the authorized duration of the entry permit;
(d) The authorized entrants within the permit space, by name or by such other means (for example, through the use of rosters or tracking systems) as will enable the attendant to determine quickly and accurately, for the duration of the permit, which authorized entrants are inside the permit space;

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ).
This requirement may be met by inserting a reference on the entry permit as to the means used, such as a roster or tracking system, to keep track of the authorized entrants within the permit space.
(e) Means of detecting an increase in atmospheric hazard levels in the event the ventilation system stops working;
(f) Each person, by name, currently serving as an attendant;
(g) The individual, by name, currently serving as entry supervisor, and the signature or initials of each entry supervisor who authorizes entry;
(h) The hazards of the permit space to be entered;
(i) The measures used to isolate the permit space and to eliminate or control permit space hazards before entry;

# Note to paragraph (
i

# ).
Those measures can include, but are not limited to, the lockout or tagging of equipment and procedures for purging, inerting, ventilating, and flushing permit spaces.
(j) The acceptable entry conditions;
(k) The results of tests and monitoring performed under § 1926.1204(e), accompanied by the names or initials of the testers and by an indication of when the tests were performed;
(l) The rescue and emergency services that can be summoned and the means (such as the equipment to use and the numbers to call) for summoning those services;
(m) The communication procedures used by authorized entrants and attendants to maintain contact during the entry;
(n) Equipment, such as personal protective equipment, testing equipment, communications equipment, alarm systems, and rescue equipment, to be provided for compliance with this standard;
(o) Any other information necessary, given the circumstances of the particular confined space, to ensure employee safety; and
(p) Any additional permits, such as for hot work, that have been issued to authorize work in the permit space.
§ 1926.1207
Training.
(a) The employer must provide training to each employee whose work is regulated by this standard, at no cost to the employee, and ensure that the employee possesses the understanding, knowledge, and skills necessary for the safe performance of the duties assigned under this standard. This training must result in an understanding of the hazards in the permit space and the methods used to isolate, control or in other ways protect employees from these hazards, and for those employees not authorized to perform entry rescues, in the dangers of attempting such rescues.
(b) Training required by this section must be provided to each affected employee:
(1) In both a language and vocabulary that the employee can understand;
(2) Before the employee is first assigned duties under this standard;
(3) Before there is a change in assigned duties;
(4) Whenever there is a change in permit space entry operations that presents a hazard about which an employee has not previously been trained; and
(5) Whenever there is any evidence of a deviation from the permit space entry procedures required by § 1926.1204(c) or there are inadequacies in the employee's knowledge or use of these procedures.
(c) The training must establish employee proficiency in the duties required by this standard and must introduce new or revised procedures, as necessary, for compliance with this standard.
(d) The employer must maintain training records to show that the
training required by paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section has been accomplished. The training records must contain each employee's name, the name of the trainers, and the dates of training. The documentation must be available for inspection by employees and their authorized representatives, for the period of time the employee is employed by that employer.
§ 1926.1208
Duties of authorized entrants.
The entry employer must ensure that all authorized entrants:
(a) Are familiar with and understand the hazards that may be faced during entry, including information on the mode, signs or symptoms, and consequences of the exposure;
(b) Properly use equipment as required by § 1926.1204(d);
(c) Communicate with the attendant as necessary to enable the attendant to assess entrant status and to enable the attendant to alert entrants of the need to evacuate the space as required by § 1926.1209(f);
(d) Alert the attendant whenever:
(1) There is any warning sign or symptom of exposure to a dangerous situation; or
(2) The entrant detects a prohibited condition; and
(e) Exit from the permit space as quickly as possible whenever:
(1) An order to evacuate is given by the attendant or the entry supervisor;
(2) There is any warning sign or symptom of exposure to a dangerous situation;
(3) The entrant detects a prohibited condition; or
(4) An evacuation alarm is activated.
§ 1926.1209
Duties of attendants.
The entry employer must ensure that each attendant:
(a) Is familiar with and understands the hazards that may be faced during entry, including information on the mode, signs or symptoms, and consequences of the exposure;
(b) Is aware of possible behavioral effects of hazard exposure in authorized entrants;
(c) Continuously maintains an accurate count of authorized entrants in the permit space and ensures that the means used to identify authorized entrants under § 1926.1206(d) accurately identifies who is in the permit space;
(d) Remains outside the permit space during entry operations until relieved by another attendant;

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ).
Once an attendant has been relieved by another attendant, the relieved attendant may enter a permit space to attempt a rescue when the employer's permit space program allows attendant entry for rescue and the attendant has been trained and equipped for rescue operations as required by § 1926.1211(a).
(e) Communicates with authorized entrants as necessary to assess entrant status and to alert entrants of the need to evacuate the space under § 1926.1208(e);
(f) Assesses activities and conditions inside and outside the space to determine if it is safe for entrants to remain in the space and orders the authorized entrants to evacuate the permit space immediately under any of the following conditions:
(1) If there is a prohibited condition;
(2) If the behavioral effects of hazard exposure are apparent in an authorized entrant;
(3) If there is a situation outside the space that could endanger the authorized entrants; or
(4) If the attendant cannot effectively and safely perform all the duties required under this section;
(g) Summons rescue and other emergency services as soon as the attendant determines that authorized entrants may need assistance to escape from permit space hazards;
(h) Takes the following actions when unauthorized persons approach or enter a permit space while entry is underway:
(1) Warns the unauthorized persons that they must stay away from the permit space;
(2) Advises the unauthorized persons that they must exit immediately if they have entered the permit space; and
(3) Informs the authorized entrants and the entry supervisor if unauthorized persons have entered the permit space;
(i) Performs non-entry rescues as specified by the employer's rescue procedure; and
(j) Performs no duties that might interfere with the attendant's primary duty to assess and protect the authorized entrants.
§ 1926.1210
Duties of entry supervisors.
The entry employer must ensure that each entry supervisor:
(a) Is familiar with and understands the hazards that may be faced during entry, including information on the mode, signs or symptoms, and consequences of the exposure;
(b) Verifies, by checking that the appropriate entries have been made on the permit, that all tests specified by the permit have been conducted and that all procedures and equipment specified by the permit are in place before endorsing the permit and allowing entry to begin;
(c) Terminates the entry and cancels or suspends the permit as required by § 1926.1205(e);
(d) Verifies that rescue services are available and that the means for summoning them are operable, and that the employer will be notified as soon as the services become unavailable;
(e) Removes unauthorized individuals who enter or who attempt to enter the permit space during entry operations; and
(f) Determines, whenever responsibility for a permit space entry operation is transferred, and at intervals dictated by the hazards and operations performed within the space, that entry operations remain consistent with terms of the entry permit and that acceptable entry conditions are maintained.
§ 1926.1211
Rescue and emergency services.
(a) An employer who designates rescue and emergency services, pursuant to § 1926.1204(i), must:
(1) Evaluate a prospective rescuer's ability to respond to a rescue summons in a timely manner, considering the hazard(s) identified;

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(1).
What will be considered timely will vary according to the specific hazards involved in each entry. For example, § 1926.103 (Respiratory protection) requires that employers provide a standby person or persons capable of immediate action to rescue employee(s) wearing respiratory protection while in work areas defined as IDLH atmospheres.
(2) Evaluate a prospective rescue service's ability, in terms of proficiency with rescue-related tasks and equipment, to function appropriately while rescuing entrants from the particular permit space or types of permit spaces identified;
(3) Select a rescue team or service from those evaluated that:
(i) Has the capability to reach the victim(s) within a time frame that is appropriate for the permit space hazard(s) identified;
(ii) Is equipped for, and proficient in, performing the needed rescue services;
(iii) Agrees to notify the employer immediately in the event that the rescue service becomes unavailable;
(4) Inform each rescue team or service of the hazards they may confront when called on to perform rescue at the site; and
(5) Provide the rescue team or service selected with access to all permit spaces from which rescue may be necessary so that the rescue team or service can develop appropriate rescue plans and practice rescue operations.
(b) An employer whose employees have been designated to provide permit space rescue and/or emergency services must take the following measures and provide all equipment and training at no cost to those employees:
(1) Provide each affected employee with the personal protective equipment (PPE) needed to conduct permit space rescues safely and train each affected employee so the employee is proficient in the use of that PPE;
(2) Train each affected employee to perform assigned rescue duties. The employer must ensure that such employees successfully complete the training required and establish proficiency as authorized entrants, as provided by §§ 1926.1207 and 1926.1208;
(3) Train each affected employee in basic first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). The employer must ensure that at least one member of the rescue team or service holding a current certification in basic first aid and CPR is available; and
(4) Ensure that affected employees practice making permit space rescues
before attempting an actual rescue, and at least once every 12 months, by means of simulated rescue operations in which they remove dummies, manikins, or actual persons from the actual permit spaces or from representative permit spaces, except practice rescue is not required where the affected employees properly performed a rescue operation during the last 12 months in the same permit space the authorized entrant will enter, or in a similar permit space. Representative permit spaces must, with respect to opening size, configuration, and accessibility, simulate the types of permit spaces from which rescue is to be performed.
(c) Non-entry rescue is required unless the retrieval equipment would increase the overall risk of entry or would not contribute to the rescue of the entrant. The employer must designate an entry rescue service whenever non-entry rescue is not selected. Whenever non-entry rescue is selected, the entry employer must ensure that retrieval systems or methods are used whenever an authorized entrant enters a permit space, and must confirm, prior to entry, that emergency assistance would be available in the event that non-entry rescue fails. Retrieval systems must meet the following requirements:
(1) Each authorized entrant must use a chest or full body harness, with a retrieval line attached at the center of the entrant's back near shoulder level, above the entrant's head, or at another point which the employer can establish presents a profile small enough for the successful removal of the entrant. Wristlets or anklets may be used in lieu of the chest or full body harness if the employer can demonstrate that the use of a chest or full body harness is infeasible or creates a greater hazard and that the use of wristlets or anklets is the safest and most effective alternative.
(2) The other end of the retrieval line must be attached to a mechanical device or fixed point outside the permit space in such a manner that rescue can begin as soon as the rescuer becomes aware that rescue is necessary. A mechanical device must be available to retrieve personnel from vertical type permit spaces more than 5 feet (1.52 meters) deep.
(3) Equipment that is unsuitable for retrieval must not be used, including, but not limited to, retrieval lines that have a reasonable probability of becoming entangled with the retrieval lines used by other authorized entrants, or retrieval lines that will not work due to the internal configuration of the permit space.
(d) If an injured entrant is exposed to a substance for which a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) or other similar written information is required to be kept at the worksite, that SDS or written information must be made available to the medical facility treating the exposed entrant.
§ 1926.1212
Employee participation.
(a) Employers must consult with affected employees and their authorized representatives on the development and implementation of all aspects of the permit space program required by § 1926.1203.
(b) Employers must make available to each affected employee and his/her authorized representatives all information required to be developed by this standard.
§ 1926.1213
Provision of documents to Secretary.
For each document required to be retained in this standard, the retaining employer must make the document available on request to the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's designee.
Subpart BB [Reserved]

# Subpart CC—Cranes and Derricks in Construction

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.;
29 U.S.C. 653, 655, 657; Secretary of Labor's Order No. 5-2007 (72 FR 31159) or 1-2012 (77 FR 3912), as applicable; and 29 CFR Part 1911.

# Source:
75 FR 48135, Aug. 9, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1926.1400
Scope.
(a) This standard applies to power-operated equipment, when used in construction, that can hoist, lower and horizontally move a suspended load.
Such equipment includes, but is not limited to: Articulating cranes (such as knuckle-boom cranes); crawler cranes; floating cranes; cranes on barges; locomotive cranes; mobile cranes (such as wheel-mounted, rough-terrain, all-terrain, commercial truck-mounted, and boom truck cranes); multi-purpose machines when configured to hoist and lower (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended load; industrial cranes (such as carry-deck cranes); dedicated pile drivers; service/mechanic trucks with a hoisting device; a crane on a monorail; tower cranes (such as a fixed jib,
i.e.,
“hammerhead boom”), luffing boom and self-erecting); pedestal cranes; portal cranes; overhead and gantry cranes; straddle cranes; sideboom cranes; derricks; and variations of such equipment. However, items listed in paragraph (c) of this section are excluded from the scope of this standard.
(b)
Attachments.
This standard applies to equipment included in paragraph (a) of this section when used with attachments. Such attachments, whether crane-attached or suspended include, but are not limited to: Hooks, magnets, grapples, clamshell buckets, orange peel buckets, concrete buckets, drag lines, personnel platforms, augers or drills and pile driving equipment.
(c)
Exclusions.
This subpart does not cover:
(1) Machinery included in paragraph (a) of this section while it has been converted or adapted for a non-hoisting/lifting use. Such conversions/adaptations include, but are not limited to, power shovels, excavators and concrete pumps.
(2) Power shovels, excavators, wheel loaders, backhoes, loader backhoes, track loaders. This machinery is also excluded when used with chains, slings or other rigging to lift suspended loads.
(3) Automotive wreckers and tow trucks when used to clear wrecks and haul vehicles.
(4) Digger derricks when used for augering holes for poles carrying electric or telecommunication lines, placing and removing the poles, and for handling associated materials for installation on, or removal from, the poles, or when used for any other work subject to subpart V of this part. To be eligible for this exclusion, digger-derrick use in work subject to subpart V of this part must comply with all of the provisions of that subpart, and digger-derrick use in construction work for telecommunication service (as defined at § 1910.268(s)(40)) must comply with all of the provisions of § 1910.268.
(5) Machinery originally designed as vehicle-mounted aerial devices (for lifting personnel) and self-propelled elevating work platforms.
(6) Telescopic/hydraulic gantry systems.
(7) Stacker cranes.
(8) Powered industrial trucks (forklifts), except when configured to hoist and lower (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended load.
(9) Mechanic's truck with a hoisting device when used in activities related to equipment maintenance and repair.
(10) Machinery that hoists by using a come-a-long or chainfall.
(11) Dedicated drilling rigs.
(12) Gin poles when used for the erection of communication towers.
(13) Tree trimming and tree removal work.
(14) Anchor handling or dredge-related operations with a vessel or barge using an affixed A-frame.
(15) Roustabouts.
(16) Helicopter cranes.
(17) Material delivery. (i) Articulating/knuckle-boom truck cranes that deliver material to a construction site when used to transfer materials from the truck crane to the ground, without arranging the materials in a particular sequence for hoisting.
(ii) Articulating/knuckle-boom truck cranes that deliver material to a construction site when the crane is used to transfer building supply sheet goods or building supply packaged materials from the truck crane onto a structure, using a fork/cradle at the end of the boom, but only when the truck crane is equipped with a properly functioning automatic overload prevention device. Such sheet goods or packaged materials include, but are not limited to: Sheets of sheet rock, sheets of plywood, bags of cement, sheets or packages of roofing shingles, and rolls of roofing felt.
(iii) This exclusion does not apply when:
(A) The articulating/knuckle-boom crane is used to hold, support or stabilize the material to facilitate a construction activity, such as holding material in place while it is attached to the structure;
(B) The material being handled by the articulating/knuckle-boom crane is a prefabricated component. Such prefabricated components include, but are not limited to: Precast concrete members or panels, roof trusses (wooden, cold-formed metal, steel, or other material), prefabricated building sections such as, but not limited to: Floor panels, wall panels, roof panels, roof structures, or similar items;
(C) The material being handled by the crane is a structural steel member (for example, steel joists, beams, columns, steel decking (bundled or unbundled) or a component of a systems-engineered metal building (as defined in 29 CFR 1926 subpart R).
(D) The activity is not specifically excluded under § 1400(c)(17)(i) and (ii).
(18)
Flash-butt welding trucks.
Flash-butt welding trucks or other roadway maintenance machines not equipped with any hoisting device other than that used to suspend and move a welding device or workhead assembly. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(18), the terms
flash-butt welding truck
and
roadway maintenance machine
refer to railroad equipment that meets the definition of “roadway maintenance machine” in 49 CFR 214.7 and is used only for railroad track work.
(d) All sections of this subpart CC apply to the equipment covered by this standard unless specified otherwise.
(e) The duties of controlling entities under this subpart include, but are not limited to, the duties specified in §§ 1926.1402(c), 1926.1402(e) and 1926.1424(b).
(f) Where provisions of this standard direct an operator, crewmember, or other employee to take certain actions, the employer must establish, effectively communicate to the relevant persons, and enforce, work rules to ensure compliance with such provisions.
(g) For work covered by subpart V of this part, compliance with § 1926.959 is deemed compliance with §§ 1926.1407 through 1926.1411.
(h) Section 1926.1402 does not apply to cranes designed for use on railroad tracks, when used on railroad tracks that are part of the general railroad system of transportation that is regulated pursuant to the Federal Railroad Administration under 49 CFR part 213, and that comply with applicable Federal Railroad Administration requirements.
See
§ 1926.1402(f).
[75 FR 48135, Aug. 9, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 32116, May 29, 2013; 79 FR 20743, Apr. 11, 2014; 85 FR 57122, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 1926.1401
Definitions.
A/D director (Assembly/Disassembly director)
means an individual who meets this subpart's requirements for an A/D director, irrespective of the person's formal job title or whether the person is non-management or management personnel.
Articulating crane
means a crane whose boom consists of a series of folding, pin connected structural members, typically manipulated to extend or retract by power from hydraulic cylinders.
Assembly/Disassembly
means the assembly and/or disassembly of equipment covered under this standard. With regard to tower cranes, “erecting and climbing” replaces the term “assembly,” and “dismantling” replaces the term “disassembly.” Regardless of whether the crane is initially erected to its full height or is climbed in stages, the process of increasing the height of the crane is an erection process.
Assist crane
means a crane used to assist in assembling or disassembling a crane.
Attachments
means any device that expands the range of tasks that can be done by the equipment. Examples include, but are not limited to: An auger, drill, magnet, pile-driver, and boom-attached personnel platform.
Audible signal
means a signal made by a distinct sound or series of sounds. Examples include, but are not limited to, sounds made by a bell, horn, or whistle.
Blocking
(also referred to as “cribbing”) is wood or other material used to support equipment or a component and distribute loads to the ground. It is
typically used to support lattice boom sections during assembly/disassembly and under outrigger and stabilizer floats.
Boatswain's chair
means a single-point adjustable suspension scaffold consisting of a seat or sling (which may be incorporated into a full body harness) designed to support one employee in a sitting position.
Bogie
means “travel bogie,” which is defined below.
Boom (equipment other than tower crane)
means an inclined spar, strut, or other long structural member which supports the upper hoisting tackle on a crane or derrick. Typically, the length and vertical angle of the boom can be varied to achieve increased height or height and reach when lifting loads. Booms can usually be grouped into general categories of hydraulically extendible, cantilevered type, latticed section, cable supported type or articulating type.
Boom (tower cranes):
On tower cranes, if the “boom” (
i.e.,
principal horizontal structure) is fixed, it is referred to as a jib; if it is moveable up and down, it is referred to as a boom.
Boom angle indicator
means a device which measures the angle of the boom relative to horizontal.
Boom hoist limiting device
includes boom hoist disengaging device, boom hoist shut-off, boom hoist disconnect, boom hoist hydraulic relief, boom hoist kick-outs, automatic boom stop device, or derricking limiter. This type of device disengages boom hoist power when the boom reaches a predetermined operating angle. It also sets brakes or closes valves to prevent the boom from lowering after power is disengaged.
Boom length indicator
indicates the length of the permanent part of the boom (such as ruled markings on the boom) or, as in some computerized systems, the length of the boom with extensions/attachments.
Boom stop
includes boom stops, (belly straps with struts/standoff), telescoping boom stops, attachment boom stops, and backstops. These devices restrict the boom from moving above a certain maximum angle and toppling over backward.
Boom suspension system
means a system of pendants, running ropes, sheaves, and other hardware which supports the boom tip and controls the boom angle.
Builder
means the builder/constructor of equipment.
Center of gravity:
The center of gravity of any object is the point in the object around which its weight is evenly distributed. If you could put a support under that point, you could balance the object on the support.
Certified welder
means a welder who meets nationally recognized certification requirements applicable to the task being performed.
Climbing
means the process in which a tower crane is raised to a new working height, either by adding additional tower sections to the top of the crane (top climbing), or by a system in which the entire crane is raised inside the structure (inside climbing).
Come-a-long
means a mechanical device typically consisting of a chain or cable attached at each end that is used to facilitate movement of materials through leverage.
Competent person
means one who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings or working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to employees, and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them.
Controlled load lowering
means lowering a load by means of a mechanical hoist drum device that allows a hoisted load to be lowered with maximum control using the gear train or hydraulic components of the hoist mechanism. Controlled load lowering requires the use of the hoist drive motor, rather than the load hoist brake, to lower the load.
Controlling entity
means an employer that is a prime contractor, general contractor, construction manager or any other legal entity which has the overall responsibility for the construction of the project—its planning, quality and completion.
Counterweight
means a weight used to supplement the weight of equipment in providing stability for lifting loads by counterbalancing those loads.
Crane/derrick
includes all equipment covered by this subpart.
Crawler crane
means equipment that has a type of base mounting which incorporates a continuous belt of sprocket driven track.
Crossover points
means locations on a wire rope which is spooled on a drum where one layer of rope climbs up on and crosses over the previous layer. This takes place at each flange of the drum as the rope is spooled onto the drum, reaches the flange, and begins to wrap back in the opposite direction.
Dedicated channel
means a line of communication assigned by the employer who controls the communication system to only one signal person and crane/derrick or to a coordinated group of cranes/derricks/signal person(s).
Dedicated pile-driver
is a machine that is designed to function exclusively as a pile-driver. These machines typically have the ability to both hoist the material that will be pile-driven and to pile-drive that material.
Dedicated spotter (power lines):
To be considered a dedicated spotter, the requirements of § 1926.1428 (Signal person qualifications) must be met and his/her sole responsibility is to watch the separation between the power line and the equipment, load line and load (including rigging and lifting accessories), and ensure through communication with the operator that the applicable minimum approach distance is not breached.
Directly under the load
means a part or all of an employee is directly beneath the load.
Dismantling
includes partial dismantling (such as dismantling to shorten a boom or substitute a different component).
Drum rotation indicator
means a device on a crane or hoist which indicates in which direction and at what relative speed a particular hoist drum is turning.
Electrical contact
occurs when a person, object, or equipment makes contact or comes in close proximity with an energized conductor or equipment that allows the passage of current.
Employer-made equipment
means floating cranes/derricks designed and built by an employer for the employer's own use.
Encroachment
is where any part of the crane, load line or load (including rigging and lifting accessories) breaches a minimum clearance distance that this subpart requires to be maintained from a power line.
Equipment
means equipment covered by this subpart.
Equipment criteria
means instructions, recommendations, limitations and specifications.
Fall protection equipment
means guardrail systems, safety net systems, personal fall arrest systems, positioning device systems or fall restraint systems.
Fall restraint system
means a fall protection system that prevents the user from falling any distance. The system is comprised of either a body belt or body harness, along with an anchorage, connectors and other necessary equipment. The other components typically include a lanyard, and may also include a lifeline and other devices.
Fall zone
means the area (including but not limited to the area directly beneath the load) in which it is reasonably foreseeable that partially or completely suspended materials could fall in the event of an accident.
Flange points
are points of contact between rope and drum flange where the rope changes layers.
Floating cranes/derricks
means equipment designed by the manufacturer (or employer) for marine use by permanent attachment to a barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation.
For example
means “one example, although there are others.”
Free fall (of the load line)
means that only the brake is used to regulate the descent of the load line (the drive mechanism is not used to drive the load down faster or retard its lowering).
Free surface effect
is the uncontrolled transverse movement of liquids in compartments which reduce a vessel's transverse stability.
Hoist
means a mechanical device for lifting and lowering loads by winding a line onto or off a drum.
Hoisting
is the act of raising, lowering or otherwise moving a load in the air with equipment covered by this standard. As used in this standard,
“hoisting” can be done by means other than wire rope/hoist drum equipment.
Include/including
means “including, but not limited to.”
Insulating link/device
means an insulating device listed, labeled, or accepted by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.7.
Jib stop
(also referred to as a jib backstop), is the same type of device as a boom stop but is for a fixed or luffing jib.
Land crane/derrick
is equipment not originally designed by the manufacturer for marine use by permanent attachment to barges, pontoons, vessels, or other means of floatation.
List
means the angle of inclination about the longitudinal axis of a barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of floatation.
Load
refers to the object(s) being hoisted and/or the weight of the object(s); both uses refer to the object(s) and the load-attaching equipment, such as, the load block, ropes, slings, shackles, and any other ancillary attachment.
Load moment (or rated capacity) indicator
means a system which aids the equipment operator by sensing (directly or indirectly) the overturning moment on the equipment,
i.e.,
load multiplied by radius. It compares this lifting condition to the equipment's rated capacity, and indicates to the operator the percentage of capacity at which the equipment is working. Lights, bells, or buzzers may be incorporated as a warning of an approaching overload condition.
Load moment (or rated capacity) limiter
means a system which aids the equipment operator by sensing (directly or indirectly) the overturning moment on the equipment,
i.e.,
load multiplied by radius. It compares this lifting condition to the equipment's rated capacity, and when the rated capacity is reached, it shuts off power to those equipment functions which can increase the severity of loading on the equipment,
e.g.,
hoisting, telescoping out, or luffing out. Typically, those functions which decrease the severity of loading on the equipment remain operational,
e.g.,
lowering, telescoping in, or luffing in.
Locomotive crane
means a crane mounted on a base or car equipped for travel on a railroad track.
Luffing jib limiting device
is similar to a boom hoist limiting device, except that it limits the movement of the luffing jib.
Marine hoisted personnel transfer device
means a device, such as a “transfer net,” that is designed to protect the employees being hoisted during a marine transfer and to facilitate rapid entry into and exit from the device. Such devices do not include boatswain's chairs when hoisted by equipment covered by this standard.
Marine worksite
means a construction worksite located in, on or above the water.
Mobile crane
means a lifting device incorporating a cable suspended latticed boom or hydraulic telescopic boom designed to be moved between operating locations by transport over the road.
Moving point-to-point
means the times during which an employee is in the process of going to or from a work station.
Multi-purpose machine
means a machine that is designed to be configured in various ways, at least one of which allows it to hoist (by means of a winch or hook) and horizontally move a suspended load. For example, a machine that can rotate and can be configured with removable forks/tongs (for use as a forklift) or with a winch pack, jib (with a hook at the end) or jib used in conjunction with a winch. When configured with the forks/tongs, it is not covered by this subpart. When configured with a winch pack, jib (with a hook at the end) or jib used in conjunction with a winch, it is covered by this subpart.
Nationally recognized accrediting agency
is an organization that, due to its independence and expertise, is widely recognized as competent to accredit testing organizations. Examples of such accrediting agencies include, but are not limited to, the National Commission for Certifying Agencies and the American National Standards Institute.
Nonconductive
means that, because of the nature and condition of the materials used, and the conditions of use (including environmental conditions
and condition of the material), the object in question has the property of not becoming energized (that is, it has high dielectric properties offering a high resistance to the passage of current under the conditions of use).
Operational aids
are devices that assist the operator in the safe operation of the crane by providing information or automatically taking control of a crane function. These include, but are not limited to, the devices listed in § 1926.1416 (“listed operational aids”).
Operational controls
means levers, switches, pedals and other devices for controlling equipment operation.
Operator
means a person who is operating the equipment.
Overhead and gantry cranes
includes overhead/bridge cranes, semigantry, cantilever gantry, wall cranes, storage bridge cranes, launching gantry cranes, and similar equipment, irrespective of whether it travels on tracks, wheels, or other means.
Paragraph
refers to a paragraph in the same section of this subpart that the word “paragraph” is used, unless otherwise specified.
Pendants
includes both wire and bar types. Wire type: A fixed length of wire rope with mechanical fittings at both ends for pinning segments of wire rope together. Bar type: Instead of wire rope, a bar is used. Pendants are typically used in a latticed boom crane system to easily change the length of the boom suspension system without completely changing the rope on the drum when the boom length is increased or decreased.
Personal fall arrest system
means a system used to arrest an employee in a fall from a working level. It consists of an anchorage, connectors, a body harness and may include a lanyard, deceleration device, lifeline, or suitable combination of these.
Portal crane
is a type of crane consisting of a rotating upperstructure, hoist machinery, and boom mounted on top of a structural gantry which may be fixed in one location or have travel capability. The gantry legs or columns usually have portal openings in between to allow passage of traffic beneath the gantry.
Power lines
means electric transmission and distribution lines.
Procedures
include, but are not limited to: Instructions, diagrams, recommendations, warnings, specifications, protocols and limitations.
Proximity alarm
is a device that provides a warning of proximity to a power line and that has been listed, labeled, or accepted by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.7.
Qualified evaluator (not a third party)
means a person employed by the signal person's employer who has demonstrated that he/she is competent in accurately assessing whether individuals meet the Qualification Requirements in this subpart for a signal person.
Qualified evaluator (third party)
means an entity that, due to its independence and expertise, has demonstrated that it is competent in accurately assessing whether individuals meet the Qualification Requirements in this subpart for a signal person.
Qualified person
means a person who, by possession of a recognized degree, certificate, or professional standing, or who by extensive knowledge, training and experience, successfully demonstrated the ability to solve/resolve problems relating to the subject matter, the work, or the project.
Qualified rigger
is a rigger who meets the criteria for a qualified person.
Range control limit device
is a device that can be set by an equipment operator to limit movement of the boom or jib tip to a plane or multiple planes.
Range control warning device
is a device that can be set by an equipment operator to warn that the boom or jib tip is at a plane or multiple planes.
Rated capacity
means the maximum working load permitted by the manufacturer under specified working conditions. Such working conditions typically include a specific combination of factors such as equipment configuration, radii, boom length, and other parameters of use.
Rated capacity indicator: See
load moment indicator.
Rated capacity limiter: See
load moment limiter.
Repetitive pickup points
refer to, when operating on a short cycle operation, the rope being used on a single layer
and being spooled repetitively over a short portion of the drum.
Running wire rope
means a wire rope that moves over sheaves or drums.
Runway
means a firm, level surface designed, prepared and designated as a path of travel for the weight and configuration of the crane being used to lift and travel with the crane suspended platform. An existing surface may be used as long as it meets these criteria.
Section
means a section of this subpart, unless otherwise specified.
Sideboom crane
means a track-type or wheel-type tractor having a boom mounted on the side of the tractor, used for lifting, lowering or transporting a load suspended on the load hook. The boom or hook can be lifted or lowered in a vertical direction only.
Special hazard warnings
means warnings of site-specific hazards (for example, proximity of power lines).
Stability (flotation device)
means the tendency of a barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation to return to an upright position after having been inclined by an external force.
Standard Method
means the protocol in appendix A of this subpart for hand signals.
Such as
means “such as, but not limited to.”
Superstructure: See
Upperworks.
Tagline
means a rope (usually fiber) attached to a lifted load for purposes of controlling load spinning and pendular motions or used to stabilize a bucket or magnet during material handling operations.
Tender
means an individual responsible for monitoring and communicating with a diver.
Tilt up or tilt down operation
means raising/lowering a load from the horizontal to vertical or vertical to horizontal.
Tower crane
is a type of lifting structure which utilizes a vertical mast or tower to support a working boom (jib) in an elevated position. Loads are suspended from the working boom. While the working boom may be of the fixed type (horizontal or angled) or have luffing capability, it can always rotate to swing loads, either by rotating on the top of the tower (top slewing) or by the rotation of the tower (bottom slewing). The tower base may be fixed in one location or ballasted and moveable between locations. Mobile cranes that are configured with luffing jib and/or tower attachments are not considered tower cranes under this section.
Travel bogie (tower cranes)
is an assembly of two or more axles arranged to permit vertical wheel displacement and equalize the loading on the wheels.
Trim
means angle of inclination about the transverse axis of a barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of floatation.
Two blocking
means a condition in which a component that is uppermost on the hoist line such as the load block, hook block, overhaul ball, or similar component, comes in contact with the boom tip, fixed upper block or similar component. This binds the system and continued application of power can cause failure of the hoist rope or other component.
Unavailable procedures
means procedures that are no longer available from the manufacturer, or have never been available, from the manufacturer.
Upperstructure: See
Upperworks.
Upperworks
means the revolving frame of equipment on which the operating machinery (and many cases the engine) are mounted along with the operator's cab. The counterweight is typically supported on the rear of the upperstructure and the boom or other front end attachment is mounted on the front.
Up to
means “up to and including.”
Wire rope
means a flexible rope constructed by laying steel wires into various patterns of multi-wired strands around a core system to produce a helically wound rope.
§ 1926.1402
Ground conditions.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) “Ground conditions” means the ability of the ground to support the equipment (including slope, compaction, and firmness).
(2) “Supporting materials” means blocking, mats, cribbing, marsh buggies (in marshes/wetlands), or similar supporting materials or devices.
(b) The equipment must not be assembled or used unless ground conditions are firm, drained, and graded to a
sufficient extent so that, in conjunction (if necessary) with the use of supporting materials, the equipment manufacturer's specifications for adequate support and degree of level of the equipment are met. The requirement for the ground to be drained does not apply to marshes/wetlands.
(c) The controlling entity must:
(1) Ensure that ground preparations necessary to meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section are provided.
(2) Inform the user of the equipment and the operator of the location of hazards beneath the equipment set-up area (such as voids, tanks, utilities) if those hazards are identified in documents (such as site drawings, as-built drawings, and soil analyses) that are in the possession of the controlling entity (whether at the site or off-site) or the hazards are otherwise known to that controlling entity.
(d) If there is no controlling entity for the project, the requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be met by the employer that has authority at the site to make or arrange for ground preparations needed to meet paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) If the A/D director or the operator determines that ground conditions do not meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, that person's employer must have a discussion with the controlling entity regarding the ground preparations that are needed so that, with the use of suitable supporting materials/devices (if necessary), the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section can be met.
(f) This section does not apply to cranes designed for use on railroad tracks when used on railroad tracks that are part of the general railroad system of transportation that is regulated pursuant to the Federal Railroad Administration under 49 CFR part 213 and that comply with applicable Federal Railroad Administration requirements.
§ 1926.1403
Assembly/Disassembly—selection of manufacturer or employer procedures.
When assembling or disassembling equipment (or attachments), the employer must comply with all applicable manufacturer prohibitions and must comply with either:
(a) Manufacturer procedures applicable to assembly and disassembly, or
(b) Employer procedures for assembly and disassembly. Employer procedures may be used only where the employer can demonstrate that the procedures used meet the requirements in § 1926.1406.

# Note:
The employer must follow manufacturer procedures when an employer uses synthetic slings during assembly or disassembly rigging. (
See
§ 1926.1404(r).)
§ 1926.1404
Assembly/Disassembly—general requirements (applies to all assembly and disassembly operations).
(a)
Supervision—competent-qualified person.
(1) Assembly/disassembly must be directed by a person who meets the criteria for both a competent person and a qualified person, or by a competent person who is assisted by one or more qualified persons (“A/D director”).
(2) Where the assembly/disassembly is being performed by only one person, that person must meet the criteria for both a competent person and a qualified person. For purposes of this standard, that person is considered the A/D director.
(b)
Knowledge of procedures.
The A/D director must understand the applicable assembly/disassembly procedures.
(c)
Review of procedures.
The A/D director must review the applicable assembly/disassembly procedures immediately prior to the commencement of assembly/disassembly unless the A/D director understands the procedures and has applied them to the same type and configuration of equipment (including accessories, if any).
(d)
Crew instructions.
(1) Before commencing assembly/disassembly operations, the A/D director must ensure that the crew members understand all of the following:
(i) Their tasks.
(ii) The hazards associated with their tasks.
(iii) The hazardous positions/locations that they need to avoid.
(2) During assembly/disassembly operations, before a crew member takes on a different task, or when adding new
personnel during the operations, the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iii) of this section must be met.
(e)
Protecting assembly/disassembly crew members out of operator view.
(1) Before a crew member goes to a location that is out of view of the operator and is either in, on, or under the equipment, or near the equipment (or load) where the crew member could be injured by movement of the equipment (or load), the crew member must inform the operator that he/she is going to that location.
(2) Where the operator knows that a crew member went to a location covered by paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the operator must not move any part of the equipment (or load) until the operator is informed in accordance with a pre-arranged system of communication that the crew member is in a safe position.
(f)
Working under the boom, jib or other components.
(1) When pins (or similar devices) are being removed, employees must not be under the boom, jib, or other components, except where the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section are met.
(2)
Exception.
Where the employer demonstrates that site constraints require one or more employees to be under the boom, jib, or other components when pins (or similar devices) are being removed, the A/D director must implement procedures that minimize the risk of unintended dangerous movement and minimize the duration and extent of exposure under the boom. (
See
Non-mandatory appendix B of this subpart for an example.)
(g)
Capacity limits.
During all phases of assembly/disassembly, rated capacity limits for loads imposed on the equipment, equipment components (including rigging), lifting lugs and equipment accessories, must not be exceeded for the equipment being assembled/disassembled.
(h)
Addressing specific hazards.
The A/D director supervising the assembly/disassembly operation must address the hazards associated with the operation, which include:
(1)
Site and ground bearing conditions.
Site and ground conditions must be adequate for safe assembly/disassembly operations and to support the equipment during assembly/disassembly (
see
§ 1926.1402 for ground condition requirements).
(2)
Blocking material.
The size, amount, condition and method of stacking the blocking must be sufficient to sustain the loads and maintain stability.
(3)
Proper location of blocking.
When used to support lattice booms or components, blocking must be appropriately placed to:
(i) Protect the structural integrity of the equipment, and
(ii) Prevent dangerous movement and collapse.
(4)
Verifying assist crane loads.
When using an assist crane, the loads that will be imposed on the assist crane at each phase of assembly/disassembly must be verified in accordance with § 1926.1417(o)(3) before assembly/disassembly begins.
(5)
Boom and jib pick points.
The point(s) of attachment of rigging to a boom (or boom sections or jib or jib sections) must be suitable for preventing structural damage and facilitating safe handling of these components.
(6)
Center of gravity.
(i) The center of gravity of the load must be identified if that is necessary for the method used for maintaining stability.
(ii) Where there is insufficient information to accurately identify the center of gravity, measures designed to prevent unintended dangerous movement resulting from an inaccurate identification of the center of gravity must be used. (
See
Non-mandatory appendix B of this subpart for an example.)
(7)
Stability upon pin removal.
The boom sections, boom suspension systems (such as gantry A-frames and jib struts), and components must be rigged or supported to maintain stability upon the removal of the pins.
(8)
Snagging.
Suspension ropes and pendants must not be allowed to catch on the boom or jib connection pins or cotter pins (including keepers and locking pins).
(9)
Struck by counterweights.
The potential for unintended movement from inadequately supported counterweights and from hoisting counterweights.
(10)
Boom hoist brake failure.
Each time reliance is to be placed on the boom hoist brake to prevent boom movement during assembly/disassembly, the brake must be tested prior to such reliance to determine if it is sufficient to prevent boom movement. If it is not sufficient, a boom hoist pawl, other locking device/back-up braking device, or another method of preventing dangerous movement of the boom (such as blocking or using an assist crane) from a boom hoist brake failure must be used.
(11)
Loss of backward stability.
Backward stability before swinging the upperworks, travel, and when attaching or removing equipment components.
(12)
Wind speed and weather.
The effect of wind speed and weather on the equipment.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Cantilevered boom sections.
Manufacturer limitations on the maximum amount of boom supported only by cantilevering must not be exceeded. Where these are unavailable, a registered professional engineer familiar with the type of equipment involved must determine in writing this limitation, which must not be exceeded.
(k)
Weight of components.
The weight of each of the components must be readily available.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Components and configuration.
(1) The selection of components, and configuration of the equipment, that affect the capacity or safe operation of the equipment must be in accordance with:
(i) Manufacturer instructions, prohibitions, limitations, and specifications. Where these are unavailable, a registered professional engineer familiar with the type of equipment involved must approve, in writing, the selection and configuration of components; or
(ii) Approved modifications that meet the requirements of § 1926.1434 (Equipment modifications).
(2)
Post-assembly inspection.
Upon completion of assembly, the equipment must be inspected to ensure compliance with paragraph (m)(1) of this section (
see
§ 1926.1412(c) for post-assembly inspection requirements).
(n) [Reserved]
(o)
Shipping pins.
Reusable shipping pins, straps, links, and similar equipment must be removed. Once they are removed they must either be stowed or otherwise stored so that they do not present a falling object hazard.
(p)
Pile driving.
Equipment used for pile driving must not have a jib attached during pile driving operations.
(q)
Outriggers and stabilizers.
When the load to be handled and the operating radius require the use of outriggers or stabilizers, or at any time when outriggers or stabilizers are used, all of the following requirements must be met (except as otherwise indicated):
(1) The outriggers or stabilizers must be either fully extended or, if manufacturer procedures permit, deployed as specified in the load chart.
(2) The outriggers must be set to remove the equipment weight from the wheels, except for locomotive cranes (
see
paragraph (q)(6) of this section for use of outriggers on locomotive cranes). This provision does not apply to stabilizers.
(3) When outrigger floats are used, they must be attached to the outriggers. When stabilizer floats are used, they must be attached to the stabilizers.
(4) Each outrigger or stabilizer must be visible to the operator or to a signal person during extension and setting.
(5) Outrigger and stabilizer blocking must:
(i) Meet the requirements in paragraphs (h)(2) and (h)(3) of this section.
(ii) Be placed only under the outrigger or stabilizer float/pad of the jack or, where the outrigger or stabilizer is designed without a jack, under the outer bearing surface of the extended outrigger or stabilizer beam.
(6) For locomotive cranes, when using outriggers or stabilizers to handle loads, the manufacturer's procedures must be followed. When lifting loads without using outriggers or stabilizers, the manufacturer's procedures must be met regarding truck wedges or screws.
(r)
Rigging.
In addition to following the requirements in 29 CFR 1926.251 and other requirements in this and other standards applicable to rigging, when
rigging is used for assembly/disassembly, the employer must ensure that:
(1) The rigging work is done by a qualified rigger.
(2) Synthetic slings are protected from: Abrasive, sharp or acute edges, and configurations that could cause a reduction of the sling's rated capacity, such as distortion or localized compression.

# Note:
Requirements for the protection of wire rope slings are contained in 29 CFR 1926.251(c)(9).
(3) When synthetic slings are used, the synthetic sling manufacturer's instructions, limitations, specifications and recommendations must be followed.
§ 1926.1405
Disassembly—additional requirements for dismantling of booms and jibs (applies to both the use of manufacturer procedures and employer procedures).
Dismantling (including dismantling for changing the length of) booms and jibs.
(a) None of the pins in the pendants are to be removed (partly or completely) when the pendants are in tension.
(b) None of the pins (top or bottom) on boom sections located between the pendant attachment points and the crane/derrick body are to be removed (partly or completely) when the pendants are in tension.
(c) None of the pins (top or bottom) on boom sections located between the uppermost boom section and the crane/derrick body are to be removed (partly or completely) when the boom is being supported by the uppermost boom section resting on the ground (or other support).
(d) None of the top pins on boom sections located on the cantilevered portion of the boom being removed (the portion being removed ahead of the pendant attachment points) are to be removed (partly or completely) until the cantilevered section to be removed is fully supported.
§ 1926.1406
Assembly/Disassembly—employer procedures—general requirements.
(a) When using employer procedures instead of manufacturer procedures for assembly/disassembly, the employer must ensure that the procedures:
(1) Prevent unintended dangerous movement, and prevent collapse, of any part of the equipment.
(2) Provide adequate support and stability of all parts of the equipment.
(3) Position employees involved in the assembly/disassembly operation so that their exposure to unintended movement or collapse of part or all of the equipment is minimized.
(b)
Qualified person.
Employer procedures must be developed by a qualified person.
§ 1926.1407
Power line safety (up to 350 kV)—assembly and disassembly.
(a) Before assembling or disassembling equipment, the employer must determine if any part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories) could get, in the direction or area of assembly/disassembly, closer than 20 feet to a power line during the assembly/disassembly process. If so, the employer must meet the requirements in Option (1), Option (2), or Option (3) of this section, as follows:
(1)
Option (1)—Deenergize and ground.
Confirm from the utility owner/operator that the power line has been deenergized and visibly grounded at the worksite.
(2)
Option (2)
—
20 foot clearance.
Ensure that no part of the equipment, load line or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), gets closer than 20 feet to the power line by implementing the measures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3)
Option (3)
—
Table A clearance.
(i) Determine the line's voltage and the minimum clearance distance permitted under Table A (
see
§ 1926.1408).
(ii) Determine if any part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), could get closer than the minimum clearance distance to the power line permitted under Table A (
see
§ 1926.1408). If so, then the employer must follow the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section to ensure that no part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), gets closer to the line than the minimum clearance distance.
(b)
Preventing encroachment/electrocution.
Where encroachment precautions are required under Option (2), or Option (3) of this section, all of the following requirements must be met:
(1) Conduct a planning meeting with the Assembly/Disassembly director (A/D director), operator, assembly/disassembly crew and the other workers who will be in the assembly/disassembly area to review the location of the power line(s) and the steps that will be implemented to prevent encroachment/electrocution.
(2) If tag lines are used, they must be nonconductive.
(3) At least one of the following additional measures must be in place. The measure selected from this list must be effective in preventing encroachment.
The additional measures are:
(i) Use a dedicated spotter who is in continuous contact with the equipment operator. The dedicated spotter must:
(A) Be equipped with a visual aid to assist in identifying the minimum clearance distance. Examples of a visual aid include, but are not limited to: A clearly visible line painted on the ground; a clearly visible line of stanchions; a set of clearly visible line-of-sight landmarks (such as a fence post behind the dedicated spotter and a building corner ahead of the dedicated spotter).
(B) Be positioned to effectively gauge the clearance distance.
(C) Where necessary, use equipment that enables the dedicated spotter to communicate directly with the operator.
(D) Give timely information to the operator so that the required clearance distance can be maintained.
(ii) A proximity alarm set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.
(iii) A device that automatically warns the operator when to stop movement, such as a range control warning device. Such a device must be set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.
(iv) A device that automatically limits range of movement, set to prevent encroachment.
(v) An elevated warning line, barricade, or line of signs, in view of the operator, equipped with flags or similar high-visibility markings.
(c)
Assembly/disassembly below power lines prohibited.
No part of a crane/derrick, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), whether partially or fully assembled, is allowed below a power line unless the employer has confirmed that the utility owner/operator has deenergized and (at the worksite) visibly grounded the power line.
(d)
Assembly/disassembly inside Table A clearance prohibited.
No part of a crane/derrick, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), whether partially or fully assembled, is allowed closer than the minimum approach distance under Table A (
see
§ 1926.1408) to a power line unless the employer has confirmed that the utility owner/operator has deenergized and (at the worksite) visibly grounded the power line.
(e)
Voltage information.
Where Option (3) of this section is used, the utility owner/operator of the power lines must provide the requested voltage information within two working days of the employer's request.
(f)
Power lines presumed energized.
The employer must assume that all power lines are energized unless the utility owner/operator confirms that the power line has been and continues to be deenergized and visibly grounded at the worksite.
(g)
Posting of electrocution warnings.
There must be at least one electrocution hazard warning conspicuously posted in the cab so that it is in view of the operator and (except for overhead gantry and tower cranes) at least two on the outside of the equipment.
§ 1926.1408
Power line safety (up to 350 kV)—equipment operations.
(a)
Hazard assessments and precautions inside the work zone.
Before beginning equipment operations, the employer must:
(1)
Identify the work zone by either:
(i) Demarcating boundaries (such as with flags, or a device such as a range limit device or range control warning device) and prohibiting the operator from operating the equipment past those boundaries, or
(ii) Defining the work zone as the area 360 degrees around the equipment, up to the equipment's maximum working radius.
(2) Determine if any part of the equipment, load line or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), if operated up to the equipment's maximum working radius in the work zone, could get closer than 20 feet to a power line. If so, the employer must meet the requirements in Option (1), Option (2), or Option (3) of this section, as follows:
(i)
Option (1)—Deenergize and ground.
Confirm from the utility owner/operator that the power line has been deenergized and visibly grounded at the worksite.
(ii)
Option (2)
—
20 foot clearance.
Ensure that no part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), gets closer than 20 feet to the power line by implementing the measures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(iii)
Option (3)
—
Table A clearance.
(A) Determine the line's voltage and the minimum approach distance permitted under Table A (
see
§ 1926.1408).
(B) Determine if any part of the equipment, load line or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), while operating up to the equipment's maximum working radius in the work zone, could get closer than the minimum approach distance of the power line permitted under Table A (
see
§ 1926.1408). If so, then the employer must follow the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section to ensure that no part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), gets closer to the line than the minimum approach distance.
(b)
Preventing encroachment/electrocution.
Where encroachment precautions are required under Option (2) or Option (3) of this section, all of the following requirements must be met:
(1) Conduct a planning meeting with the operator and the other workers who will be in the area of the equipment or load to review the location of the power line(s), and the steps that will be implemented to prevent encroachment/electrocution.
(2) If tag lines are used, they must be non-conductive.
(3) Erect and maintain an elevated warning line, barricade, or line of signs, in view of the operator, equipped with flags or similar high-visibility markings, at 20 feet from the power line (if using Option (2) of this section) or at the minimum approach distance under Table A (
see
§ 1926.1408) (if using Option (3) of this section). If the operator is unable to see the elevated warning line, a dedicated spotter must be used as described in § 1926.1408(b)(4)(ii) in addition to implementing one of the measures described in §§ 1926.1408(b)(4)(i), (iii), (iv) and (v).
(4) Implement at least one of the following measures:
(i) A proximity alarm set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.
(ii) A dedicated spotter who is in continuous contact with the operator. Where this measure is selected, the dedicated spotter must:
(A) Be equipped with a visual aid to assist in identifying the minimum clearance distance. Examples of a visual aid include, but are not limited to: A clearly visible line painted on the ground; a clearly visible line of stanchions; a set of clearly visible line-of-sight landmarks (such as a fence post behind the dedicated spotter and a building corner ahead of the dedicated spotter).
(B) Be positioned to effectively gauge the clearance distance.
(C) Where necessary, use equipment that enables the dedicated spotter to communicate directly with the operator.
(D) Give timely information to the operator so that the required clearance distance can be maintained.
(iii) A device that automatically warns the operator when to stop movement, such as a range control warning device. Such a device must be set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.
(iv) A device that automatically limits range of movement, set to prevent encroachment.
(v) An insulating link/device, as defined in § 1926.1401, installed at a point between the end of the load line (or below) and the load.
(5) The requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section do not apply to work covered by subpart V of this part.
(c)
Voltage information.
Where Option (3) of this section is used, the utility owner/operator of the power lines must provide the requested voltage information within two working days of the employer's request.
(d)
Operations below power lines.
(1) No part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories) is allowed below a power line unless the employer has confirmed that the utility owner/operator has deenergized and (at the worksite) visibly grounded the power line, except where one of the exceptions in paragraph (d)(2) of this section applies.
(2)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (d)(1) of this section is inapplicable where the employer demonstrates that one of the following applies:
(i) The work is covered by subpart V of this part.
(ii) For equipment with non-extensible booms: The uppermost part of the equipment, with the boom at true vertical, would be more than 20 feet below the plane of the power line or more than the Table A of this section minimum clearance distance below the plane of the power line.
(iii) For equipment with articulating or extensible booms: The uppermost part of the equipment, with the boom in the fully extended position, at true vertical, would be more than 20 feet below the plane of the power line or more than the Table A of this section minimum clearance distance below the plane of the power line.
(iv) The employer demonstrates that compliance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section is infeasible and meets the requirements of § 1926.1410.
(e)
Power lines presumed energized.
The employer must assume that all power lines are energized unless the utility owner/operator confirms that the power line has been and continues to be deenergized and visibly grounded at the worksite.
(f) When working near transmitter/communication towers where the equipment is close enough for an electrical charge to be induced in the equipment or materials being handled, the transmitter must be deenergized or the following precautions must be taken:
(1) The equipment must be provided with an electrical ground.
(2) If tag lines are used, they must be non-conductive.
(g)
Training.
(1) The employer must train each operator and crew member assigned to work with the equipment on all of the following:
(i) The procedures to be followed in the event of electrical contact with a power line. Such training must include:
(A) Information regarding the danger of electrocution from the operator simultaneously touching the equipment and the ground.
(B) The importance to the operator's safety of remaining inside the cab except where there is an imminent danger of fire, explosion, or other emergency that necessitates leaving the cab.
(C) The safest means of evacuating from equipment that may be energized.
(D) The danger of the potentially energized zone around the equipment (step potential).
(E) The need for crew in the area to avoid approaching or touching the equipment and the load.
(F) Safe clearance distance from power lines.
(ii) Power lines are presumed to be energized unless the utility owner/operator confirms that the power line has been and continues to be deenergized and visibly grounded at the worksite.
(iii) Power lines are presumed to be uninsulated unless the utility owner/operator or a registered engineer who is a qualified person with respect to electrical power transmission and distribution confirms that a line is insulated.
(iv) The limitations of an insulating link/device, proximity alarm, and range control (and similar) device, if used.
(v) The procedures to be followed to properly ground equipment and the limitations of grounding.
(2) Employees working as dedicated spotters must be trained to enable them to effectively perform their task, including training on the applicable requirements of this section.
(3) Training under this section must be administered in accordance with § 1926.1430(g).
(h) Devices originally designed by the manufacturer for use as: A safety device (
see
§ 1926.1415), operational aid, or a means to prevent power line contact or electrocution, when used to comply with this section, must meet the manufacturer's procedures for use and conditions of use.
Table A—Minimum Clearance Distances
Voltage
(nominal, kV, alternating current)
Minimum clearance distance
(feet)
up to 50
10
over 50 to 200
15
over 200 to 350
20
over 350 to 500
25
over 500 to 750
35
over 750 to 1,000
45
over 1,000
(as established by the utility owner/operator or registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to electrical power transmission and distribution).
Note:
The value that follows “to” is up to and includes that value. For example, over 50 to 200 means up to and including 200kV.
§ 1926.1409
Power line safety (over 350 kV).
The requirements of §§ 1926.1407 and 1926.1408 apply to power lines over 350 kV except:
(a) For power lines at or below 1000 kV, wherever the distance “20 feet” is specified, the distance “50 feet” must be substituted; and
(b) For power lines over 1000 kV, the minimum clearance distance must be established by the utility owner/operator or registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to electrical power transmission and distribution.
§ 1926.1410
Power line safety (all voltages)—equipment operations closer than the Table A zone.
Equipment operations in which any part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories) is closer than the minimum approach distance under Table A of § 1926.1408 to an energized power line is prohibited, except where the employer demonstrates that all of the following requirements are met:
(a) The employer determines that it is infeasible to do the work without breaching the minimum approach distance under Table A of § 1926.1408.
(b) The employer determines that, after consultation with the utility owner/operator, it is infeasible to deenergize and ground the power line or relocate the power line.
(c)
Minimum clearance distance.
(1) The power line owner/operator or registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to electrical power transmission and distribution determines the minimum clearance distance that must be maintained to prevent electrical contact in light of the on-site conditions. The factors that must be considered in making this determination include, but are not limited to: Conditions affecting atmospheric conductivity; time necessary to bring the equipment, load line, and load (including rigging and lifting accessories) to a complete stop; wind conditions; degree of sway in the power line; lighting conditions, and other conditions affecting the ability to prevent electrical contact.
(2) Paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply to work covered by subpart V of this part; instead, for such work, the minimum approach distances established by the employer under § 1926.960(c)(1)(i) apply.
(d) A planning meeting with the employer and utility owner/operator (or registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to electrical power transmission and distribution) is held to determine the procedures that will be followed to prevent electrical contact and electrocution. At a minimum these procedures must include:
(1) If the power line is equipped with a device that automatically reenergizes the circuit in the event of a power line contact, before the work begins, the automatic reclosing feature of the circuit interrupting device must be made inoperative if the design of the device permits.
(2) A dedicated spotter who is in continuous contact with the operator. The dedicated spotter must:
(i) Be equipped with a visual aid to assist in identifying the minimum clearance distance. Examples of a visual aid include, but are not limited to: A line painted on the ground; a clearly visible line of stanchions; a set of clearly visible line-of-sight landmarks (such as a fence post behind the dedicated spotter and a building corner ahead of the dedicated spotter).
(ii) Be positioned to effectively gauge the clearance distance.
(iii) Where necessary, use equipment that enables the dedicated spotter to communicate directly with the operator.
(iv) Give timely information to the operator so that the required clearance distance can be maintained.
(3) An elevated warning line, or barricade (not attached to the crane), in view of the operator (either directly or through video equipment), equipped with flags or similar high-visibility markings, to prevent electrical contact. However, this provision does not apply to work covered by subpart V of this part.
(4)
Insulating link/device.
(i) An insulating link/device installed at a point between the end of the load line (or below) and the load.
(ii) Paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section does not apply to work covered by subpart V of this part.
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) Until November 8, 2011, the following procedure may be substituted for the requirement in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section: All employees, excluding equipment operators located on the equipment, who may come in contact with the equipment, the load line, or the load must be insulated or guarded from the equipment, the load line, and the load. Insulating gloves rated for the voltage involved are adequate insulation for the purposes of this paragraph.
(v) Until November 8, 2013, the following procedure may be substituted for the requirement in (d)(4)(i) of this section:
(A) The employer must use a link/device manufactured on or before November 8, 2011, that meets the definition of an insulating link/device, except that it has not been approved by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory, and that is maintained and used in accordance with manufacturer requirements and recommendations, and is installed at a point between the end of the load line (or below) and the load; and
(B) All employees, excluding equipment operators located on the equipment, who may come in contact with the equipment, the load line, or the load must be insulated or guarded from the equipment, the load line, and the load through an additional means other than the device described in paragraph (d)(4)(v)(A) of this section. Insulating gloves rated for the voltage involved are adequate additional means of protection for the purposes of this paragraph.
(5) Nonconductive rigging if the rigging may be within the Table A of § 1926.1408 distance during the operation.
(6) If the equipment is equipped with a device that automatically limits range of movement, it must be used and set to prevent any part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories) from breaching the minimum approach distance established under paragraph (c) of this section.
(7) If a tag line is used, it must be of the nonconductive type.
(8) Barricades forming a perimeter at least 10 feet away from the equipment to prevent unauthorized personnel from entering the work area. In areas where obstacles prevent the barricade from being at least 10 feet away, the barricade must be as far from the equipment as feasible.
(9) Workers other than the operator must be prohibited from touching the load line above the insulating link/device and crane. Operators remotely operating the equipment from the ground
must use either wireless controls that isolate the operator from the equipment or insulating mats that insulate the operator from the ground.
(10) Only personnel essential to the operation are permitted to be in the area of the crane and load.
(11) The equipment must be properly grounded.
(12) Insulating line hose or cover-up must be installed by the utility owner/operator except where such devices are unavailable for the line voltages involved.
(e) The procedures developed to comply with paragraph (d) of this section are documented and immediately available on-site.
(f) The equipment user and utility owner/operator (or registered professional engineer) meet with the equipment operator and the other workers who will be in the area of the equipment or load to review the procedures that will be implemented to prevent breaching the minimum approach distance established in paragraph (c) of this section and prevent electrocution.
(g) The procedures developed to comply with paragraph (d) of this section are implemented.
(h) The utility owner/operator (or registered professional engineer) and all employers of employees involved in the work must identify one person who will direct the implementation of the procedures. The person identified in accordance with this paragraph must direct the implementation of the procedures and must have the authority to stop work at any time to ensure safety.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) If a problem occurs implementing the procedures being used to comply with paragraph (d) of this section, or indicating that those procedures are inadequate to prevent electrocution, the employer must safely stop operations and either develop new procedures to comply with paragraph (d) of this section or have the utility owner/operator deenergize and visibly ground or relocate the power line before resuming work.
(k) Devices originally designed by the manufacturer for use as a safety device (
see
§ 1926.1415), operational aid, or a means to prevent power line contact or electrocution, when used to comply with this section, must comply with the manufacturer's procedures for use and conditions of use.
(l) [Reserved]
(m) The employer must train each operator and crew member assigned to work with the equipment in accordance with § 1926.1408(g).
[75 FR 48135, Aug. 9, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 20743, Apr. 11, 2014]
§ 1926.1411
Power line safety—while traveling under or near power lines with no load.
(a) This section establishes procedures and criteria that must be met for equipment traveling under or near a power line on a construction site with no load. Equipment traveling on a construction site with a load is governed by § 1926.1408, § 1926.1409 or § 1926.1410, whichever is appropriate, and § 1926.1417(u).
(b) The employer must ensure that:
(1) The boom/mast and boom/mast support system are lowered sufficiently to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(2) The clearances specified in Table T of this section are maintained.
(3) The effects of speed and terrain on equipment movement (including movement of the boom/mast) are considered so that those effects do not cause the minimum clearance distances specified in Table T of this section to be breached.
(4)
Dedicated spotter.
If any part of the equipment while traveling will get closer than 20 feet to the power line, the employer must ensure that a dedicated spotter who is in continuous contact with the driver/operator is used. The dedicated spotter must:
(i) Be positioned to effectively gauge the clearance distance.
(ii) Where necessary, use equipment that enables the dedicated spotter to communicate directly with the operator.
(iii) Give timely information to the operator so that the required clearance distance can be maintained.
(5)
Additional precautions for traveling in poor visibility.
When traveling at night, or in conditions of poor visibility, in addition to the measures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through
(4) of this section, the employer must ensure that:
(i) The power lines are illuminated or another means of identifying the location of the lines is used.
(ii) A safe path of travel is identified and used.
Table T—Minimum Clearance Distances While Traveling With No Load
Voltage
(nominal, kV, alternating current)
While traveling—minimum clearance distance
(feet)
up to 0.75
4
over .75 to 50
6
over 50 to 345
10
over 345 to 750
16
Over 750 to 1,000
20
Over 1,000
(as established by the utility owner/operator or registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to electrical power transmission and distribution).
§ 1926.1412
Inspections.
(a)
Modified equipment.
(1) Equipment that has had modifications or additions which affect the safe operation of the equipment (such as modifications or additions involving a safety device or operational aid, critical part of a control system, power plant, braking system, load-sustaining structural components, load hook, or in-use operating mechanism) or capacity must be inspected by a qualified person after such modifications/additions have been completed, prior to initial use. The inspection must meet all of the following requirements:
(i) The inspection must assure that the modifications or additions have been done in accordance with the approval obtained pursuant to § 1926.1434 (Equipment modifications).
(ii) The inspection must include functional testing of the equipment.
(2) Equipment must not be used until an inspection under this paragraph demonstrates that the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section have been met.
(b)
Repaired/adjusted equipment.
(1) Equipment that has had a repair or adjustment that relates to safe operation (such as: A repair or adjustment to a safety device or operator aid, or to a critical part of a control system, power plant, braking system, load-sustaining structural components, load hook, or in-use operating mechanism), must be inspected by a qualified person after such a repair or adjustment has been completed, prior to initial use. The inspection must meet all of the following requirements:
(i) The qualified person must determine if the repair/adjustment meets manufacturer equipment criteria (where applicable and available).
(ii) Where manufacturer equipment criteria are unavailable or inapplicable, the qualified person must:
(A) Determine if a registered professional engineer (RPE) is needed to develop criteria for the repair/adjustment. If an RPE is not needed, the employer must ensure that the criteria are developed by the qualified person. If an RPE is needed, the employer must ensure that they are developed by an RPE.
(B) Determine if the repair/adjustment meets the criteria developed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(iii) The inspection must include functional testing of the repaired/adjusted parts and other components that may be affected by the repair/adjustment.
(4) Equipment must not be used until an inspection under this paragraph demonstrates that the repair/adjustment meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section (or, where applicable, paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section).
(c)
Post-assembly.
(1) Upon completion of assembly, the equipment must be inspected by a qualified person to assure that it is configured in accordance with manufacturer equipment criteria.
(2) Where manufacturer equipment criteria are unavailable, a qualified person must:
(i) Determine if a registered professional engineer (RPE) familiar with the type of equipment involved is needed to develop criteria for the equipment configuration. If an RPE is not needed, the employer must ensure that the criteria are developed by the qualified person. If an RPE is needed, the employer must ensure that they are developed by an RPE.
(ii) Determine if the equipment meets the criteria developed in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) Equipment must not be used until an inspection under this paragraph demonstrates that the equipment is configured in accordance with the applicable criteria.
(d)
Each shift.
(1) A competent person must begin a visual inspection prior to each shift the equipment will be used, which must be completed before or during that shift. The inspection must consist of observation for apparent deficiencies. Taking apart equipment components and booming down is not required as part of this inspection unless the results of the visual inspection or trial operation indicate that further investigation necessitating taking apart equipment components or booming down is needed. Determinations made in conducting the inspection must be reassessed in light of observations made during operation. At a minimum the inspection must include all of the following:
(i) Control mechanisms for maladjustments interfering with proper operation.
(ii) Control and drive mechanisms for apparent excessive wear of components and contamination by lubricants, water or other foreign matter.
(iii) Air, hydraulic, and other pressurized lines for deterioration or leakage, particularly those which flex in normal operation.
(iv) Hydraulic system for proper fluid level.
(v) Hooks and latches for deformation, cracks, excessive wear, or damage such as from chemicals or heat.
(vi) Wire rope reeving for compliance with the manufacturer's specifications.
(vii) Wire rope, in accordance with § 1926.1413(a).
(viii) Electrical apparatus for malfunctioning, signs of apparent excessive deterioration, dirt or moisture accumulation.
(ix) Tires (when in use) for proper inflation and condition.
(x) Ground conditions around the equipment for proper support, including ground settling under and around outriggers/stabilizers and supporting foundations, ground water accumulation, or similar conditions. This paragraph does not apply to the inspection of ground conditions for railroad tracks and their underlying support when the railroad tracks are part of the general railroad system of transportation that is regulated pursuant to the Federal Railroad Administration under 49 CFR part 213.
(xi) The equipment for level position within the tolerances specified by the equipment manufacturer's recommendations, both before each shift and after each move and setup.
(xii) Operator cab windows for significant cracks, breaks, or other deficiencies that would hamper the operator's view.
(xiii) Rails, rail stops, rail clamps and supporting surfaces when the equipment has rail traveling. This paragraph does not apply to the inspection of rails, rail stops, rail clamps and supporting surfaces when the railroad tracks are part of the general railroad system of transportation that is regulated pursuant to the Federal Railroad Administration under 49 CFR part 213.
(xiv) Safety devices and operational aids for proper operation.
(2) If any deficiency in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (xiii) of this section (or in additional inspection items required to be checked for specific types of equipment in accordance with other sections of this standard) is identified, an immediate determination must be made by the competent person as to whether the deficiency constitutes a safety hazard. If the deficiency is determined to constitute a safety hazard, the equipment must be taken out of service until it has been corrected.
See
§ 1926.1417.
(3) If any deficiency in paragraph (d)(1)(xiv) of this section (safety devices/operational aids) is identified, the action specified in §§ 1926.1415 and 1926.1416 must be taken prior to using the equipment.
(e)
Monthly.
(1) Each month the equipment is in service it must be inspected in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section (each shift).
(2) Equipment must not be used until an inspection under this paragraph demonstrates that no corrective action under paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section is required.
(3)
Documentation.
(i) The following information must be documented and maintained by the employer that conducts the inspection:
(A) The items checked and the results of the inspection.
(B) The name and signature of the person who conducted the inspection and the date.
(ii) This document must be retained for a minimum of three months.
(f)
Annual/comprehensive.
(1) At least every 12 months the equipment must be inspected by a qualified person in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section (each shift) except that the corrective action set forth in paragraphs (f)(4), (f)(5), and (f)(6) of this section must apply in place of the corrective action required by paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section.
(2) In addition, at least every 12 months, the equipment must be inspected by a qualified person. Disassembly is required, as necessary, to complete the inspection. The equipment must be inspected for all of the following:
(i) Equipment structure (including the boom and, if equipped, the jib):
(A) Structural members: Deformed, cracked, or significantly corroded.
(B) Bolts, rivets and other fasteners: loose, failed or significantly corroded.
(C) Welds for cracks.
(ii) Sheaves and drums for cracks or significant wear.
(iii) Parts such as pins, bearings, shafts, gears, rollers and locking devices for distortion, cracks or significant wear.
(iv) Brake and clutch system parts, linings, pawls and ratchets for excessive wear.
(v) Safety devices and operational aids for proper operation (including significant inaccuracies).
(vi) Gasoline, diesel, electric, or other power plants for safety-related problems (such as leaking exhaust and emergency shut-down feature) and conditions, and proper operation.
(vii) Chains and chain drive sprockets for excessive wear of sprockets and excessive chain stretch.
(viii) Travel steering, brakes, and locking devices, for proper operation.
(ix) Tires for damage or excessive wear.
(x) Hydraulic, pneumatic and other pressurized hoses, fittings and tubing, as follows:
(A) Flexible hose or its junction with the fittings for indications of leaks.
(B) Threaded or clamped joints for leaks.
(C) Outer covering of the hose for blistering, abnormal deformation or other signs of failure/impending failure.
(D) Outer surface of a hose, rigid tube, or fitting for indications of excessive abrasion or scrubbing.
(xi) Hydraulic and pneumatic pumps and motors, as follows:
(A) Performance indicators: Unusual noises or vibration, low operating speed, excessive heating of the fluid, low pressure.
(B) Loose bolts or fasteners.
(C) Shaft seals and joints between pump sections for leaks.
(xii) Hydraulic and pneumatic valves, as follows:
(A) Spools: Sticking, improper return to neutral, and leaks.
(B) Leaks.
(C) Valve housing cracks.
(D) Relief valves: Failure to reach correct pressure (if there is a manufacturer procedure for checking pressure, it must be followed).
(xiii) Hydraulic and pneumatic cylinders, as follows:
(A) Drifting caused by fluid leaking across the piston.
(B) Rod seals and welded joints for leaks.
(C) Cylinder rods for scores, nicks, or dents.
(D) Case (barrel) for significant dents.
(E) Rod eyes and connecting joints: Loose or deformed.
(xiv) Outrigger or stabilizer pads/floats for excessive wear or cracks.
(xv) Slider pads for excessive wear or cracks.
(xvi) Electrical components and wiring for cracked or split insulation and loose or corroded terminations.
(xvii) Warning labels and decals originally supplied with the equipment by the manufacturer or otherwise required under this standard: Missing or unreadable.
(xviii) Originally equipped operator seat (or equivalent): Missing.
(xix) Operator seat: Unserviceable.
(xx) Originally equipped steps, ladders, handrails, guards: Missing.
(xxi) Steps, ladders, handrails, guards: In unusable/unsafe condition.
(3) This inspection must include functional testing to determine that the equipment as configured in the inspection is functioning properly.
(4) If any deficiency is identified, an immediate determination must be made by the qualified person as to whether the deficiency constitutes a safety hazard or, though not yet a safety hazard, needs to be monitored in the monthly inspections.
(5) If the qualified person determines that a deficiency is a safety hazard, the equipment must be taken out of service until it has been corrected, except when temporary alternative measures are implemented as specified in § 1926.1416(d) or § 1926.1435(e).
See
§ 1926.1417.
(6) If the qualified person determines that, though not presently a safety hazard, the deficiency needs to be monitored, the employer must ensure that the deficiency is checked in the monthly inspections.
(7)
Documentation of annual/comprehensive inspection.
The following information must be documented, maintained, and retained for a minimum of 12 months, by the employer that conducts the inspection:
(i) The items checked and the results of the inspection.
(ii) The name and signature of the person who conducted the inspection and the date.
(g)
Severe service.
Where the severity of use/conditions is such that there is a reasonable probability of damage or excessive wear (such as loading that may have exceeded rated capacity, shock loading that may have exceeded rated capacity, prolonged exposure to a corrosive atmosphere), the employer must stop using the equipment and a qualified person must:
(1) Inspect the equipment for structural damage to determine if the equipment can continue to be used safely.
(2) In light of the use/conditions determine whether any items/conditions listed in paragraph (f) of this section need to be inspected; if so, the qualified person must inspect those items/conditions.
(3) If a deficiency is found, the employer must follow the requirements in paragraphs (f)(4) through (6) of this section.
(h)
Equipment not in regular use.
Equipment that has been idle for 3 months or more must be inspected by a qualified person in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) (Monthly) of this section before initial use.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Any part of a manufacturer's procedures regarding inspections that relate to safe operation (such as to a safety device or operational aid, critical part of a control system, power plant, braking system, load-sustaining structural components, load hook, or in-use operating mechanism) that is more comprehensive or has a more frequent schedule of inspection than the requirements of this section must be followed.
(k) All documents produced under this section must be available, during the applicable document retention period, to all persons who conduct inspections under this section.
§ 1926.1413
Wire rope—inspection.
(a)
Shift inspection.
(1) A competent person must begin a visual inspection prior to each shift the equipment is used, which must be completed before or during that shift. The inspection must consist of observation of wire ropes (running and standing) that are likely to be in use during the shift for apparent deficiencies, including those listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Untwisting (opening) of wire rope
or booming down is not required as part of this inspection.
(2)
Apparent deficiencies
—(i)
Category I.
Apparent deficiencies in this category include the following:
(A) Significant distortion of the wire rope structure such as kinking, crushing, unstranding, birdcaging, signs of core failure or steel core protrusion between the outer strands.
(B) Significant corrosion.
(C) Electric arc damage (from a source other than power lines) or heat damage.
(D) Improperly applied end connections.
(E) Significantly corroded, cracked, bent, or worn end connections (such as from severe service).
(ii)
Category II.
Apparent deficiencies in this category are:
(A) Visible broken wires, as follows:
(
1
) In running wire ropes: Six randomly distributed broken wires in one rope lay or three broken wires in one strand in one rope lay, where a rope lay is the length along the rope in which one strand makes a complete revolution around the rope.
(
2
) In rotation resistant ropes: Two randomly distributed broken wires in six rope diameters or four randomly distributed broken wires in 30 rope diameters.
(
3
) In pendants or standing wire ropes: More than two broken wires in one rope lay located in rope beyond end connections and/or more than one broken wire in a rope lay located at an end connection.
(B) A diameter reduction of more than 5% from nominal diameter.
(iii)
Category III.
Apparent deficiencies in this category include the following:
(A) In rotation resistant wire rope, core protrusion or other distortion indicating core failure.
(B) Prior electrical contact with a power line.
(C) A broken strand.
(3)
Critical review items.
The competent person must give particular attention to all of the following:
(i) Rotation resistant wire rope in use.
(ii) Wire rope being used for boom hoists and luffing hoists, particularly at reverse bends.
(iii) Wire rope at flange points, crossover points and repetitive pickup points on drums.
(iv) Wire rope at or near terminal ends.
(v) Wire rope in contact with saddles, equalizer sheaves or other sheaves where rope travel is limited.
(4)
Removal from service.
(i) If a deficiency in Category I (
see
paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section) is identified, an immediate determination must be made by the competent person as to whether the deficiency constitutes a safety hazard. If the deficiency is determined to constitute a safety hazard, operations involving use of the wire rope in question must be prohibited until:
(A) The wire rope is replaced (
see
§ 1926.1417), or
(B) If the deficiency is localized, the problem is corrected by severing the wire rope in two; the undamaged portion may continue to be used. Joining lengths of wire rope by splicing is prohibited. If a rope is shortened under this paragraph, the employer must ensure that the drum will still have two wraps of wire when the load and/or boom is in its lowest position.
(ii) If a deficiency in Category II (
see
paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section) is identified, operations involving use of the wire rope in question must be prohibited until:
(A) The employer complies with the wire rope manufacturer's established criterion for removal from service or a different criterion that the wire rope manufacturer has approved in writing for that specific wire rope (
see
§ 1926.1417),
(B) The wire rope is replaced (
see
§ 1926.1417), or
(C) If the deficiency is localized, the problem is corrected by severing the wire rope in two; the undamaged portion may continue to be used. Joining lengths of wire rope by splicing is prohibited. If a rope is shortened under this paragraph, the employer must ensure that the drum will still have two wraps of wire when the load and/or boom is in its lowest position.
(iii) If a deficiency in Category III is identified, operations involving use of the wire rope in question must be prohibited until:
(A) The wire rope is replaced (
see
§ 1926.1417), or
(B) If the deficiency (other than power line contact) is localized, the problem is corrected by severing the wire rope in two; the undamaged portion may continue to be used. Joining lengths of wire rope by splicing is prohibited. Repair of wire rope that contacted an energized power line is also prohibited. If a rope is shortened under this paragraph, the employer must ensure that the drum will still have two wraps of wire when the load and/or boom is in its lowest position.
(iv) Where a wire rope is required to be removed from service under this section, either the equipment (as a whole) or the hoist with that wire rope must be tagged-out, in accordance with § 1926.1417(f)(1), until the wire rope is repaired or replaced.
(b)
Monthly inspection.
(1) Each month an inspection must be conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) (shift inspection) of this section.
(2) The inspection must include any deficiencies that the qualified person who conducts the annual inspection determines under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section must be monitored.
(3) Wire ropes on equipment must not be used until an inspection under this paragraph demonstrates that no corrective action under paragraph (a)(4) of this section is required.
(4) The inspection must be documented according to § 1926.1412(e)(3) (monthly inspection documentation).
(c)
Annual/comprehensive.
(1) At least every 12 months, wire ropes in use on equipment must be inspected by a qualified person in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section (shift inspection).
(2) In addition, at least every 12 months, the wire ropes in use on equipment must be inspected by a qualified person, as follows:
(i) The inspection must be for deficiencies of the types listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(ii) The inspection must be complete and thorough, covering the surface of the entire length of the wire ropes, with particular attention given to all of the following:
(A) Critical review items listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(B) Those sections that are normally hidden during shift and monthly inspections.
(C) Wire rope subject to reverse bends.
(D) Wire rope passing over sheaves.
(iii)
Exception:
In the event an inspection under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is not feasible due to existing set-up and configuration of the equipment (such as where an assist crane is needed) or due to site conditions (such as a dense urban setting), such inspections must be conducted as soon as it becomes feasible, but no longer than an additional 6 months for running ropes and, for standing ropes, at the time of disassembly.
(3) If a deficiency is identified, an immediate determination must be made by the qualified person as to whether the deficiency constitutes a safety hazard.
(i) If the deficiency is determined to constitute a safety hazard, operations involving use of the wire rope in question must be prohibited until:
(A) The wire rope is replaced (
see
§ 1926.1417), or
(B) If the deficiency is localized, the problem is corrected by severing the wire rope in two; the undamaged portion may continue to be used. Joining lengths of wire rope by splicing is prohibited. If a rope is shortened under this paragraph, the employer must ensure that the drum will still have two wraps of wire when the load and/or boom is in its lowest position.
(ii) If the qualified person determines that, though not presently a safety hazard, the deficiency needs to be monitored, the employer must ensure that the deficiency is checked in the monthly inspections.
(4) The inspection must be documented according to § 1926.1412(f)(7) (annual/comprehensive inspection documentation).
(d) Rope lubricants that are of the type that hinder inspection must not be used.
(e) All documents produced under this section must be available, during the applicable document retention period, to all persons who conduct inspections under this section.
§ 1926.1414
Wire rope—selection and installation criteria.
(a) Original equipment wire rope and replacement wire rope must be selected and installed in accordance with the requirements of this section. Selection of replacement wire rope must be in accordance with the recommendations of the wire rope manufacturer, the equipment manufacturer, or a qualified person.
(b)
Wire rope design criteria:
Wire rope (other than rotation resistant rope) must comply with either Option (1) or Option (2) of this section, as follows:
(1)
Option (1).
Wire rope must comply with section 5-1.7.1 of ASME B30.5-2004 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) except that section's paragraph (c) must not apply.
(2)
Option (2).
Wire rope must be designed to have, in relation to the equipment's rated capacity, a sufficient minimum breaking force and design factor so that compliance with the applicable inspection provisions in § 1926.1413 will be an effective means of preventing sudden rope failure.
(c) Wire rope must be compatible with the safe functioning of the equipment.
(d)
Boom hoist reeving.
(1) Fiber core ropes must not be used for boom hoist reeving, except for derricks.
(2) Rotation resistant ropes must be used for boom hoist reeving only where the requirements of paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section are met.
(e)
Rotation resistant ropes
—(1)
Definitions
—(i)
Type I rotation resistant wire rope (“Type I”).
Type I rotation resistant rope is stranded rope constructed to have little or no tendency to rotate or, if guided, transmits little or no torque. It has at least 15 outer strands and comprises an assembly of at least three layers of strands laid helically over a center in two operations. The direction of lay of the outer strands is opposite to that of the underlying layer.
(ii)
Type II rotation resistant wire rope (“Type II”).
Type II rotation resistant rope is stranded rope constructed to have significant resistance to rotation. It has at least 10 outer strands and comprises an assembly of two or more layers of strands laid helically over a center in two or three operations. The direction of lay of the outer strands is opposite to that of the underlying layer.
(iii)
Type III rotation resistant wire rope (“Type III”).
Type III rotation resistant rope is stranded rope constructed to have limited resistance to rotation. It has no more than nine outer strands, and comprises an assembly of two layers of strands laid helically over a center in two operations. The direction of lay of the outer strands is opposite to that of the underlying layer.
(2)
Requirements.
(i) Types II and III with an operating design factor of less than 5 must not be used for duty cycle or repetitive lifts.
(ii) Rotation resistant ropes (including Types I, II and III) must have an operating design factor of no less than 3.5.
(iii) Type I must have an operating design factor of no less than 5, except where the wire rope manufacturer and the equipment manufacturer approves the design factor, in writing.
(iv) Types II and III must have an operating design factor of no less than 5, except where the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section are met.
(3) When Types II and III with an operating design factor of less than 5 are used (for non-duty cycle, non-repetitive lifts), the following requirements must be met for each lifting operation:
(i) A qualified person must inspect the rope in accordance with § 1926.1413(a). The rope must be used only if the qualified person determines that there are no deficiencies constituting a hazard. In making this determination, more than one broken wire in any one rope lay must be considered a hazard.
(ii) Operations must be conducted in such a manner and at such speeds as to minimize dynamic effects.
(iii) Each lift made under § 1926.1414(e)(3) must be recorded in the monthly and annual inspection documents. Such prior uses must be considered by the qualified person in determining whether to use the rope again.
(4)
Additional requirements for rotation resistant ropes for boom hoist reeving.
(i) Rotation resistant ropes must not be used for boom hoist reeving, except
where the requirements of paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section are met.
(ii) Rotation resistant ropes may be used as boom hoist reeving when load hoists are used as boom hoists for attachments such as luffing attachments or boom and mast attachment systems. Under these conditions, all of the following requirements must be met:
(A) The drum must provide a first layer rope pitch diameter of not less than 18 times the nominal diameter of the rope used.
(B) The requirements in § 1926.1426(a) (irrespective of the date of manufacture of the equipment), and § 1926.1426(b).
(C) The requirements in ASME B30.5-2004 sections 5-1.3.2(a), (a)(2) through (a)(4), (b) and (d) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) except that the minimum pitch diameter for sheaves used in multiple rope reeving is 18 times the nominal diameter of the rope used (instead of the value of 16 specified in section 5-1.3.2(d)).
(D) All sheaves used in the boom hoist reeving system must have a rope pitch diameter of not less than 18 times the nominal diameter of the rope used.
(E) The operating design factor for the boom hoist reeving system must be not less than five.
(F) The operating design factor for these ropes must be the total minimum breaking force of all parts of rope in the system divided by the load imposed on the rope system when supporting the static weights of the structure and the load within the equipment's rated capacity.
(G) When provided, a power-controlled lowering system must be capable of handling rated capacities and speeds as specified by the manufacturer.
(f) Wire rope clips used in conjunction with wedge sockets must be attached to the unloaded dead end of the rope only, except that the use of devices specifically designed for dead-ending rope in a wedge socket is permitted.
(g) Socketing must be done in the manner specified by the manufacturer of the wire rope or fitting.
(h) Prior to cutting a wire rope, seizings must be placed on each side of the point to be cut. The length and number of seizings must be in accordance with the wire rope manufacturer's instructions.
§ 1926.1415
Safety devices.
(a)
Safety devices.
The following safety devices are required on all equipment covered by this subpart, unless otherwise specified:
(1)
Crane level indicator.
(i) The equipment must have a crane level indicator that is either built into the equipment or is available on the equipment.
(ii) If a built-in crane level indicator is not working properly, it must be tagged-out or removed. If a removable crane level indicator is not working properly, it must be removed.
(iii) This requirement does not apply to portal cranes, derricks, floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges, pontoons, vessels or other means of flotation.
(2) Boom stops, except for derricks and hydraulic booms.
(3) Jib stops (if a jib is attached), except for derricks.
(4) Equipment with foot pedal brakes must have locks.
(5) Hydraulic outrigger jacks and hydraulic stabilizer jacks must have an integral holding device/check valve.
(6) Equipment on rails must have rail clamps and rail stops, except for portal cranes.
(7)
Horn.
(i) The equipment must have a horn that is either built into the equipment or is on the equipment and immediately available to the operator.
(ii) If a built-in horn is not working properly, it must be tagged-out or removed. If a removable horn is not working properly, it must be removed.
(b)
Proper operation required.
Operations must not begin unless all of the devices listed in this section are in proper working order. If a device stops working properly during operations, the operator must safely stop operations. If any of the devices listed in this section are not in proper working order, the equipment must be taken out of service and operations must not resume until the device is again working properly.
See
§ 1926.1417 (Operation). Alternative measures are not permitted to be used.
§ 1926.1416
Operational aids.
(a) The devices listed in this section (“listed operational aids”) are required on all equipment covered by this subpart, unless otherwise specified.
(1) The requirements in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of this section do not apply to articulating cranes.
(2) The requirements in paragraphs (d)(3), (e)(1), and (e)(4) of this section apply only to those digger derricks manufactured after November 8, 2011.
(b) Operations must not begin unless the listed operational aids are in proper working order, except where an operational aid is being repaired the employer uses the specified temporary alternative measures. The time periods permitted for repairing defective operational aids are specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. More protective alternative measures specified by the crane/derrick manufacturer, if any, must be followed.
(c) If a listed operational aid stops working properly during operations, the operator must safely stop operations until the temporary alternative measures are implemented or the device is again working properly. If a replacement part is no longer available, the use of a substitute device that performs the same type of function is permitted and is not considered a modification under § 1926.1434.
(d)
Category I operational aids and alternative measures.
Operational aids listed in this paragraph that are not working properly must be repaired no later than 7 calendar days after the deficiency occurs.
Exception:
If the employer documents that it has ordered the necessary parts within 7 calendar days of the occurrence of the deficiency, the repair must be completed within 7 calendar days of receipt of the parts.
See
§ 1926.1417(j) for additional requirements.
(1)
Boom hoist limiting device.
(i) For equipment manufactured after December 16, 1969, a boom hoist limiting device is required.
Temporary alternative measures (use at least one).
One or more of the following methods must be used:
(A) Use a boom angle indicator.
(B) Clearly mark the boom hoist cable (so that it can easily be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to keep the boom within the minimum allowable radius. In addition, install mirrors or remote video cameras and displays if necessary for the operator to see the mark.
(C) Clearly mark the boom hoist cable (so that it can easily be seen by a spotter) at a point that will give the spotter sufficient time to signal the operator and have the operator stop the hoist to keep the boom within the minimum allowable radius.
(ii) If the equipment was manufactured on or before December 16, 1969, and is not equipped with a boom hoist limiting device, at least one of the measures in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section must be used.
(2)
Luffing jib limiting device.
Equipment with a luffing jib must have a luffing jib limiting device. Temporary alternative measures are the same as in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, except to limit the movement of the luffing jib rather than the boom hoist.
(3)
Anti two-blocking device.
(i) Telescopic boom cranes manufactured after February 28, 1992, must be equipped with a device which automatically prevents damage from contact between the load block, overhaul ball, or similar component, and the boom tip (or fixed upper block or similar component). The device(s) must prevent such damage at all points where two-blocking could occur.
Temporary alternative measures:
Clearly mark the cable (so that it can easily be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, and use a spotter when extending the boom.
(ii)
Lattice boom cranes.
(A) Lattice boom cranes manufactured after Feb 28, 1992, must be equipped with a device that either automatically prevents damage and load failure from contact between the load block, overhaul ball, or similar component, and the boom tip (or fixed upper block or similar component), or warns the operator in time for the operator to prevent two-blocking. The device must prevent such damage/failure or provide adequate warning for all points where two-blocking could occur.
(B) Lattice boom cranes and derricks manufactured after November 8, 2011 must be equipped with a device which automatically prevents damage and load failure from contact between the load block, overhaul ball, or similar component, and the boom tip (or fixed upper block or similar component). The device(s) must prevent such damage/failure at all points where two-blocking could occur.
(C)
Exception.
The requirements in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section do not apply to such lattice boom equipment when used for dragline, clamshell (grapple), magnet, drop ball, container handling, concrete bucket, marine operations that do not involve hoisting personnel, and pile driving work.
(D)
Temporary alternative measures.
Clearly mark the cable (so that it can easily be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, or use a spotter.
(iii) Articulating cranes manufactured after December 31, 1999, that are equipped with a load hoist must be equipped with a device that automatically prevents damage from contact between the load block, overhaul ball, or similar component, and the boom tip (or fixed upper block or similar component). The device must prevent such damage at all points where two-blocking could occur.
Temporary alternative measures:
When two-blocking could only occur with movement of the load hoist, clearly mark the cable (so that it can easily be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, or use a spotter. When two-blocking could occur without movement of the load hoist, clearly mark the cable (so that it can easily be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, and use a spotter when extending the boom.
(e)
Category II operational aids and alternative measures.
Operational aids listed in this paragraph that are not working properly must be repaired no later than 30 calendar days after the deficiency occurs.
Exception:
If the employer documents that it has ordered the necessary parts within 7 calendar days of the occurrence of the deficiency, and the part is not received in time to complete the repair in 30 calendar days, the repair must be completed within 7 calendar days of receipt of the parts.
See
§ 1926.1417(j) for additional requirements.
(1)
Boom angle or radius indicator.
The equipment must have a boom angle or radius indicator readable from the operator's station.
Temporary alternative measures:
Radii or boom angle must be determined by measuring the radii or boom angle with a measuring device.
(2) Jib angle indicator if the equipment has a luffing jib.
Temporary alternative measures:
Radii or jib angle must be determined by ascertaining the main boom angle and then measuring the radii or jib angle with a measuring device.
(3) Boom length indicator if the equipment has a telescopic boom, except where the rated capacity is independent of the boom length.
Temporary alternative measures.
One or more of the following methods must be used:
(i) Mark the boom with measured marks to calculate boom length,
(ii) Calculate boom length from boom angle and radius measurements,
(iii) Measure the boom with a measuring device.
(4)
Load weighing and similar devices.
(i) Equipment (other than derricks and articulating cranes) manufactured after March 29, 2003 with a rated capacity over 6,000 pounds must have at least one of the following: load weighing device, load moment (or rated capacity) indicator, or load moment (or rated capacity) limiter.
Temporary alternative measures:
The weight of the load must be determined from a source recognized by the industry (such as the load's manufacturer) or by a calculation method recognized by the industry (such as calculating a steel beam from measured dimensions and a known per foot weight). This information must be provided to the operator prior to the lift.
(ii) Articulating cranes manufactured after November 8, 2011 must have at least one of the following: automatic overload prevention device, load weighing device, load moment (or rated capacity) indicator, or load moment
(rated capacity) limiter.
Temporary alternative measures:
The weight of the load must be determined from a source recognized by the industry (such as the load's manufacturer) or by a calculation method recognized by the industry (such as calculating a steel beam from measured dimensions and a known per foot weight). This information must be provided to the operator prior to the lift.
(5) The following devices are required on equipment manufactured after November 8, 2011:
(i) Outrigger/stabilizer position (horizontal beam extension) sensor/monitor if the equipment has outriggers or stabilizers.
Temporary alternative measures:
The operator must verify that the position of the outriggers or stabilizers is correct (in accordance with manufacturer procedures) before beginning operations requiring outrigger or stabilizer deployment.
(ii) Hoist drum rotation indicator if the equipment has a hoist drum not visible from the operator's station.
Temporary alternative measures:
Mark the drum to indicate the rotation of the drum. In addition, install mirrors or remote video cameras and displays if necessary for the operator to see the mark.
§ 1926.1417
Operation.
(a) The employer must comply with all manufacturer procedures applicable to the operational functions of equipment, including its use with attachments.
(b)
Unavailable operation procedures.
(1) Where the manufacturer procedures are unavailable, the employer must develop and ensure compliance with all procedures necessary for the safe operation of the equipment and attachments.
(2) Procedures for the operational controls must be developed by a qualified person.
(3) Procedures related to the capacity of the equipment must be developed and signed by a registered professional engineer familiar with the equipment.
(c)
Accessibility of procedures.
(1) The procedures applicable to the operation of the equipment, including rated capacities (load charts), recommended operating speeds, special hazard warnings, instructions, and operator's manual, must be readily available in the cab at all times for use by the operator.
(2) Where rated capacities are available in the cab only in electronic form: In the event of a failure which makes the rated capacities inaccessible, the operator must immediately cease operations or follow safe shut-down procedures until the rated capacities (in electronic or other form) are available.
(d) The operator must not engage in any practice or activity that diverts his/her attention while actually engaged in operating the equipment, such as the use of cellular phones (other than when used for signal communications).
(e)
Leaving the equipment unattended.
(1) The operator must not leave the controls while the load is suspended, except where all of the following are met:
(i) The operator remains adjacent to the equipment and is not engaged in any other duties.
(ii) The load is to be held suspended for a period of time exceeding normal lifting operations.
(iii) The competent person determines that it is safe to do so and implements measures necessary to restrain the boom hoist and telescoping, load, swing, and outrigger or stabilizer functions.
(iv) Barricades or caution lines, and notices, are erected to prevent all employees from entering the fall zone. No employees, including those listed in §§ 1926.1425(b)(1) through (3), § 1926.1425(d) or § 1926.1425(e), are permitted in the fall zone.
(2) The provisions in § 1926.1417(e)(1) do not apply to working gear (such as slings, spreader bars, ladders, and welding machines) where the weight of the working gear is negligible relative to the lifting capacity of the equipment as positioned, and the working gear is suspended over an area other than an entrance or exit.
(f)
Tag-out
—(1)
Tagging out of service equipment/functions.
Where the employer has taken the equipment out of service, a tag must be placed in the cab stating that the equipment is out of service and is not to be used. Where the employer has taken a function(s) out of
service, a tag must be placed in a conspicuous position stating that the function is out of service and is not to be used.
(2)
Response to “do not operate”/tag-out signs.
(i) If there is a warning (tag-out or maintenance/do not operate) sign on the equipment or starting control, the operator must not activate the switch or start the equipment until the sign has been removed by a person authorized to remove it, or until the operator has verified that:
(A) No one is servicing, working on, or otherwise in a dangerous position on the machine.
(B) The equipment has been repaired and is working properly.
(ii) If there is a warning (tag-out or maintenance/do not operate) sign on any other switch or control, the operator must not activate that switch or control until the sign has been removed by a person authorized to remove it, or until the operator has verified that the requirements in paragraphs (f)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section have been met.
(g) Before starting the engine, the operator must verify that all controls are in the proper starting position and that all personnel are in the clear.
(h)
Storm warning.
When a local storm warning has been issued, the competent person must determine whether it is necessary to implement manufacturer recommendations for securing the equipment.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) If equipment adjustments or repairs are necessary:
(1) The operator must, in writing, promptly inform the person designated by the employer to receive such information and, where there are successive shifts, to the next operator; and
(2) The employer must notify all affected employees, at the beginning of each shift, of the necessary adjustments or repairs and all alternative measures.
(k) Safety devices and operational aids must not be used as a substitute for the exercise of professional judgment by the operator.
(l) [Reserved]
(m) If the competent person determines that there is a slack rope condition requiring re-spooling of the rope, it must be verified (before starting to lift) that the rope is seated on the drum and in the sheaves as the slack is removed.
(n) The competent person must adjust the equipment and/or operations to address the effect of wind, ice, and snow on equipment stability and rated capacity.
(o)
Compliance with rated capacity.
(1) The equipment must not be operated in excess of its rated capacity.
(2) The operator must not be required to operate the equipment in a manner that would violate paragraph (o)(1) of this section.
(3)
Load weight.
The operator must verify that the load is within the rated capacity of the equipment by at least one of the following methods:
(i) The weight of the load must be determined from a source recognized by the industry (such as the load's manufacturer), or by a calculation method recognized by the industry (such as calculating a steel beam from measured dimensions and a known per foot weight), or by other equally reliable means. In addition, when requested by the operator, this information must be provided to the operator prior to the lift; or
(ii) The operator must begin hoisting the load to determine, using a load weighing device, load moment indicator, rated capacity indicator, or rated capacity limiter, if it exceeds 75 percent of the maximum rated capacity at the longest radius that will be used during the lift operation. If it does, the operator must not proceed with the lift until he/she verifies the weight of the load in accordance with paragraph (o)(3)(i) of this section.
(p) The boom or other parts of the equipment must not contact any obstruction.
(q) The equipment must not be used to drag or pull loads sideways.
(r) On wheel-mounted equipment, no loads must be lifted over the front area, except as permitted by the manufacturer.
(s) The operator must test the brakes each time a load that is 90% or more of the maximum line pull is handled by lifting the load a few inches and applying the brakes. In duty cycle and repetitive lifts where each lift is 90% or
more of the maximum line pull, this requirement applies to the first lift but not to successive lifts.
(t) Neither the load nor the boom must be lowered below the point where less than two full wraps of rope remain on their respective drums.
(u)
Traveling with a load.
(1) Traveling with a load is prohibited if the practice is prohibited by the manufacturer.
(2) Where traveling with a load, the employer must ensure that:
(i) A competent person supervises the operation, determines if it is necessary to reduce rated capacity, and makes determinations regarding load position, boom location, ground support, travel route, overhead obstructions, and speed of movement necessary to ensure safety.
(ii) The determinations of the competent person required in paragraph (u)(2)(i) of this section are implemented.
(iii) For equipment with tires, tire pressure specified by the manufacturer is maintained.
(v) Rotational speed of the equipment must be such that the load does not swing out beyond the radius at which it can be controlled.
(w) A tag or restraint line must be used if necessary to prevent rotation of the load that would be hazardous.
(x) The brakes must be adjusted in accordance with manufacturer procedures to prevent unintended movement.
(y) The operator must obey a stop (or emergency stop) signal, irrespective of who gives it.
(z)
Swinging locomotive cranes.
A locomotive crane must not be swung into a position where railway cars on an adjacent track could strike it, until it is determined that cars are not being moved on the adjacent track and that proper flag protection has been established.
(aa)
Counterweight/ballast.
(1) The following applies to equipment other than tower cranes:
(i) Equipment must not be operated without the counterweight or ballast in place as specified by the manufacturer.
(ii) The maximum counterweight or ballast specified by the manufacturer for the equipment must not be exceeded.
(2) Counterweight/ballast requirements for tower cranes are specified in § 1926.1435(b)(8).
§ 1926.1418
Authority to stop operation.
Whenever there is a concern as to safety, the operator must have the authority to stop and refuse to handle loads until a qualified person has determined that safety has been assured.
§ 1926.1419
Signals—general requirements.
(a) A signal person must be provided in each of the following situations:
(1) The point of operation, meaning the load travel or the area near or at load placement, is not in full view of the operator.
(2) When the equipment is traveling, the view in the direction of travel is obstructed.
(3) Due to site specific safety concerns, either the operator or the person handling the load determines that it is necessary.
(b)
Types of signals.
Signals to operators must be by hand, voice, audible, or new signals.
(c)
Hand signals.
(1) When using hand signals, the Standard Method must be used (
see
appendix A of this subpart).
Exception:
Where use of the Standard Method for hand signals is infeasible, or where an operation or use of an attachment is not covered in the Standard Method, non-standard hand signals may be used in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Non-standard hand signals.
When using non-standard hand signals, the signal person, operator, and lift director (where there is one) must contact each other prior to the operation and agree on the non-standard hand signals that will be used.
(d)
New signals.
Signals other than hand, voice, or audible signals may be used where the employer demonstrates that:
(1) The new signals provide at least equally effective communication as voice, audible, or Standard Method hand signals, or
(2) The new signals comply with a national consensus standard that provides at least equally effective communication as voice, audible, or Standard Method hand signals.
(e)
Suitability.
The signals used (hand, voice, audible, or new), and means of transmitting the signals to the operator (such as direct line of sight, video, radio,
etc.
), must be appropriate for the site conditions.
(f) During operations requiring signals, the ability to transmit signals between the operator and signal person must be maintained. If that ability is interrupted at any time, the operator must safely stop operations requiring signals until it is reestablished and a proper signal is given and understood.
(g) If the operator becomes aware of a safety problem and needs to communicate with the signal person, the operator must safely stop operations. Operations must not resume until the operator and signal person agree that the problem has been resolved.
(h) Only one person may give signals to a crane/derrick at a time, except in circumstances covered by paragraph (j) of this section.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Anyone who becomes aware of a safety problem must alert the operator or signal person by giving the stop or emergency stop signal. (
Note:
§ 1926.1417(y) requires the operator to obey a stop or emergency stop signal).
(k) All directions given to the operator by the signal person must be given from the operator's direction perspective.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Communication with multiple cranes/derricks.
Where a signal person(s) is in communication with more than one crane/derrick, a system must be used for identifying the crane/derrick each signal is for, as follows:
(1) for each signal, prior to giving the function/direction, the signal person must identify the crane/derrick the signal is for, or
(2) must use an equally effective method of identifying which crane/derrick the signal is for.
§ 1926.1420
Signals—radio, telephone or other electronic transmission of signals.
(a) The device(s) used to transmit signals must be tested on site before beginning operations to ensure that the signal transmission is effective, clear, and reliable.
(b) Signal transmission must be through a dedicated channel, except:
(1) Multiple cranes/derricks and one or more signal persons may share a dedicated channel for the purpose of coordinating operations.
(2) Where a crane is being operated on or adjacent to railroad tracks, and the actions of the crane operator need to be coordinated with the movement of other equipment or trains on the same or adjacent tracks.
(c) The operator's reception of signals must be by a hands-free system.
§ 1926.1421
Signals—voice signals—additional requirements.
(a) Prior to beginning operations, the operator, signal person and lift director (if there is one), must contact each other and agree on the voice signals that will be used. Once the voice signals are agreed upon, these workers need not meet again to discuss voice signals unless another worker is added or substituted, there is confusion about the voice signals, or a voice signal is to be changed.
(b) Each voice signal must contain the following three elements, given in the following order: function (such as hoist, boom,
etc.
), direction; distance and/or speed; function, stop command.
(c) The operator, signal person and lift director (if there is one), must be able to effectively communicate in the language used.
§ 1926.1422
Signals—hand signal chart.
Hand signal charts must be either posted on the equipment or conspicuously posted in the vicinity of the hoisting operations.
§ 1926.1423
Fall protection.
(a)
Application.
(1) Paragraphs (b), (c)(3), (e) and (f) of this section apply to all equipment covered by this subpart except tower cranes.
(2) Paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), (d), (g), (j) and (k) of this section apply to all equipment covered by this subpart.
(3) Paragraphs (c)(4) and (h) of this section apply only to tower cranes.
(b)
Boom walkways.
(1) Equipment manufactured after November 8, 2011 with lattice booms must be equipped with walkways on the boom(s) if the vertical profile of the boom (from cord centerline to cord centerline) is 6 or more feet.
(2)
Boom walkway criteria.
(i) The walkways must be at least 12 inches wide.
(ii) Guardrails, railings and other permanent fall protection attachments along walkways are:
(A) Not required.
(B) Prohibited on booms supported by pendant ropes or bars if the guardrails/railings/attachments could be snagged by the ropes or bars.
(C) Prohibited if of the removable type (designed to be installed and removed each time the boom is assembled/disassembled).
(D) Where not prohibited, guardrails or railings may be of any height up to, but not more than, 45 inches.
(c)
Steps, handholds, ladders, grabrails, guardrails and railings.
(1) Section 1926.502(b) does not apply to equipment covered by this subpart.
(2) The employer must maintain in good condition originally-equipped steps, handholds, ladders and guardrails/railings/grabrails.
(3) Equipment manufactured after November 8, 2011 must be equipped so as to provide safe access and egress between the ground and the operator work station(s), including the forward and rear positions, by the provision of devices such as steps, handholds, ladders, and guardrails/railings/grabrails. These devices must meet the following criteria:
(i) Steps, handholds, ladders and guardrails/railings/grabrails must meet the criteria of SAE J185 (May 2003) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) or ISO 11660-2:1994(E) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) except where infeasible.
(ii) Walking/stepping surfaces, except for crawler treads, must have slip-resistant features/properties (such as diamond plate metal, strategically placed grip tape, expanded metal, or slip-resistant paint).
(4) Tower cranes manufactured after November 8, 2011 must be equipped so as to provide safe access and egress between the ground and the cab, machinery platforms, and tower (mast), by the provision of devices such as steps, handholds, ladders, and guardrails/railings/grabrails. These devices must meet the following criteria:
(i) Steps, handholds, ladders, and guardrails/railings/grabrails must meet the criteria of ISO 11660-1:2008(E) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) and ISO 11660-3:2008(E) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) or SAE J185 (May 2003) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) except where infeasible.
(ii) Walking/stepping surfaces must have slip-resistant features/properties (such as diamond plate metal, strategically placed grip tape, expanded metal, or slip-resistant paint).
(d)
Personal fall arrest and fall restraint systems.
Personal fall arrest system components must be used in personal fall arrest and fall restraint systems and must conform to the criteria in § 1926.502(d) except that § 1926.502(d)(15) does not apply to components used in personal fall arrest and fall restraint systems. Either body belts or body harnesses must be used in personal fall arrest and fall restraint systems.
(e) For non-assembly/disassembly work, the employer must provide and ensure the use of fall protection equipment for employees who are on a walking/working surface with an unprotected side or edge more than 6 feet above a lower level as follows:
(1) When moving point-to-point:
(i) On non-lattice booms (whether horizontal or not horizontal).
(ii) On lattice booms that are not horizontal.
(iii) On horizontal lattice booms where the fall distance is 15 feet or more.
(2) While at a work station on any part of the equipment (including the boom, of any type), except when the employee is at or near draw-works (when the equipment is running), in the cab, or on the deck.
(f) For assembly/disassembly work, the employer must provide and ensure
the use of fall protection equipment for employees who are on a walking/working surface with an unprotected side or edge more than 15 feet above a lower level, except when the employee is at or near draw-works (when the equipment is running), in the cab, or on the deck.
(g)
Anchorage criteria.
(1) Sections 1926.502(d)(15) and 1926.502(e)(2) apply to equipment covered by this subpart only to the extent delineated in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(2)
Anchorages for personal fall arrest and positioning device systems.
(i) Personal fall arrest systems must be anchored to any apparently substantial part of the equipment unless a competent person, from a visual inspection, without an engineering analysis, would conclude that the criteria in § 1926.502(d)(15) would not be met.
(ii) Positioning device systems must be anchored to any apparently substantial part of the equipment unless a competent person, from a visual inspection, without an engineering analysis, would conclude that the criteria in § 1926.502(e)(2) would not be met.
(iii) Attachable anchor devices (portable anchor devices that are attached to the equipment) must meet the anchorage criteria in § 1926.502(d)(15) for personal fall arrest systems and § 1926.502(e)(2) for positioning device systems.
(3)
Anchorages for fall restraint systems.
Fall restraint systems must be anchored to any part of the equipment that is capable of withstanding twice the maximum load that an employee may impose on it during reasonably anticipated conditions of use.
(h)
Tower cranes.
(1) For work other than erecting, climbing, and dismantling, the employer must provide and ensure the use of fall protection equipment for employees who are on a walking/working surface with an unprotected side or edge more than 6 feet above a lower level, except when the employee is at or near draw-works (when the equipment is running), in the cab, or on the deck.
(2) For erecting, climbing, and dismantling work, the employer must provide and ensure the use of fall protection equipment for employees who are on a walking/working surface with an unprotected side or edge more than 15 feet above a lower level.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Anchoring to the load line.
A personal fall arrest system is permitted to be anchored to the crane/derrick's hook (or other part of the load line) where all of the following requirements are met:
(1) A qualified person has determined that the set-up and rated capacity of the crane/derrick (including the hook, load line and rigging) meets or exceeds the requirements in § 1926.502(d)(15).
(2) The equipment operator must be at the work site and informed that the equipment is being used for this purpose.
(3) No load is suspended from the load line when the personal fall arrest system is anchored to the crane/derrick's hook (or other part of the load line).
(k)
Training.
The employer must train each employee who may be exposed to fall hazards while on, or hoisted by, equipment covered by this subpart on all of the following:
(1) the requirements in this subpart that address fall protection.
(2) the applicable requirements in §§ 1926.500 and 1926.502.
§ 1926.1424
Work area control.
(a)
Swing radius hazards.
(1) The requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section apply where there are accessible areas in which the equipment's rotating superstructure (whether permanently or temporarily mounted) poses a reasonably foreseeable risk of:
(i) Striking and injuring an employee; or
(ii) Pinching/crushing an employee against another part of the equipment or another object.
(2) To prevent employees from entering these hazard areas, the employer must:
(i) Train each employee assigned to work on or near the equipment (“authorized personnel”) in how to recognize struck-by and pinch/crush hazard areas posed by the rotating superstructure.
(ii) Erect and maintain control lines, warning lines, railings or similar barriers to mark the boundaries of the
hazard areas.
Exception:
When the employer can demonstrate that it is neither feasible to erect such barriers on the ground nor on the equipment, the hazard areas must be clearly marked by a combination of warning signs (such as “Danger—Swing/Crush Zone”) and high visibility markings on the equipment that identify the hazard areas. In addition, the employer must train each employee to understand what these markings signify.
(3)
Protecting employees in the hazard area.
(i) Before an employee goes to a location in the hazard area that is out of view of the operator, the employee (or someone instructed by the employee) must ensure that the operator is informed that he/she is going to that location.
(ii) Where the operator knows that an employee went to a location covered by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the operator must not rotate the superstructure until the operator is informed in accordance with a pre-arranged system of communication that the employee is in a safe position.
(b) Where any part of a crane/derrick is within the working radius of another crane/derrick, the controlling entity must institute a system to coordinate operations. If there is no controlling entity, the employer (if there is only one employer operating the multiple pieces of equipment), or employers, must institute such a system.
§ 1926.1425
Keeping clear of the load.
(a) Where available, hoisting routes that minimize the exposure of employees to hoisted loads must be used, to the extent consistent with public safety.
(b) While the operator is not moving a suspended load, no employee must be within the fall zone, except for employees:
(1) Engaged in hooking, unhooking or guiding a load;
(2) Engaged in the initial attachment of the load to a component or structure; or
(3) Operating a concrete hopper or concrete bucket.
(c) When employees are engaged in hooking, unhooking, or guiding the load, or in the initial connection of a load to a component or structure and are within the fall zone, all of the following criteria must be met:
(1) The materials being hoisted must be rigged to prevent unintentional displacement.
(2) Hooks with self-closing latches or their equivalent must be used.
Exception:
“J” hooks are permitted to be used for setting wooden trusses.
(3) The materials must be rigged by a qualified rigger.
(d)
Receiving a load.
Only employees needed to receive a load are permitted to be within the fall zone when a load is being landed.
(e) During a tilt-up or tilt-down operation:
(1) No employee must be directly under the load.
(2) Only employees essential to the operation are permitted in the fall zone (but not directly under the load). An employee is essential to the operation if the employee is conducting one of the following operations and the employer can demonstrate it is infeasible for the employee to perform that operation from outside the fall zone: (1) Physically guide the load; (2) closely monitor and give instructions regarding the load's movement; or (3) either detach it from or initially attach it to another component or structure (such as, but not limited to, making an initial connection or installing bracing).

# Note:
Boom free fall is prohibited when an employee is in the fall zone of the boom or load, and load line free fall is prohibited when an employee is directly under the load;
see
§ 1926.1426.
§ 1926.1426
Free fall and controlled load lowering.
(a)
Boom free fall prohibitions.
(1) The use of equipment in which the boom is designed to free fall (live boom) is prohibited in each of the following circumstances:
(i) An employee is in the fall zone of the boom or load.
(ii) An employee is being hoisted.
(iii) The load or boom is directly over a power line, or over any part of the area extending the Table A of § 1926.1408 clearance distance to each side of the power line; or any part of the area extending the Table A clearance distance to each side of the power line is within
the radius of vertical travel of the boom or the load.
(iv) The load is over a shaft, except where there are no employees in the shaft.
(v) The load is over a cofferdam, except where there are no employees in the fall zone of the boom or the load.
(vi) Lifting operations are taking place in a refinery or tank farm.
(2) The use of equipment in which the boom is designed to free fall (live boom) is permitted only where none of the circumstances listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are present and:
(i) The equipment was manufactured prior to October 31, 1984; or
(ii) The equipment is a floating crane/derrick or a land crane/derrick on a vessel/flotation device.
(b)
Preventing boom free fall.
Where the use of equipment with a boom that is designed to free fall (live boom) is prohibited, the boom hoist must have a secondary mechanism or device designed to prevent the boom from falling in the event the primary system used to hold or regulate the boom hoist fails, as follows:
(1) Friction drums must have:
(i) A friction clutch and, in addition, a braking device, to allow for controlled boom lowering.
(ii) A secondary braking or locking device, which is manually or automatically engaged, to back-up the primary brake while the boom is held (such as a secondary friction brake or a ratchet and pawl device).
(2) Hydraulic drums must have an integrally mounted holding device or internal static brake to prevent boom hoist movement in the event of hydraulic failure.
(3) Neither clutches nor hydraulic motors must be considered brake or locking devices for purposes of this subpart.
(4) Hydraulic boom cylinders must have an integrally mounted holding device.
(c)
Preventing uncontrolled retraction.
Hydraulic telescoping booms must have an integrally mounted holding device to prevent the boom from retracting in the event of hydraulic failure.
(d)
Load line free fall.
In each of the following circumstances, controlled load lowering is required and free fall of the load line hoist is prohibited:
(1) An employee is directly under the load.
(2) An employee is being hoisted.
(3) The load is directly over a power line, or over any part of the area extending the Table A of § 1926.1408 clearance distance to each side of the power line; or any part of the area extending the Table A of § 1926.1408 clearance distance to each side of the power line is within the radius of vertical travel of the load.
(4) The load is over a shaft.
(5) The load is over a cofferdam, except where there are no employees in the fall zone of the load.
§ 1926.1427
Operator training, certification, and evaluation.
(a)
General requirements for operators.
The employer must ensure that each operator is trained, certified/licensed, and evaluated in accordance with this section before operating any equipment covered under subpart CC, except for the equipment listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Operation during training.
An employee who has not been certified/licensed and evaluated to operate assigned equipment in accordance with this section may only operate the equipment as an operator-in-training under supervision in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Exceptions.
Operators of derricks (see § 1926.1436), sideboom cranes (see § 1926.1440), or equipment with a maximum manufacturer-rated hoisting/lifting capacity of 2,000 pounds or less (see § 1926.1441) are not required to comply with § 1926.1427. Note: The training requirements in those other sections continue to apply (for the training requirement for operators of sideboom cranes, follow section 1926.1430(c)).
(3)
Qualification by the U.S. military.
(i) For purposes of this section, an operator who is an employee of the U.S. military meets the requirements of this section if he/she has a current operator qualification issued by the U.S. military for operation of the equipment. An employee of the U.S. military is a Federal employee of the Department of Defense or Armed Forces and
does not include employees of private contractors.
(ii) A qualification under this paragraph is:
(A) Not portable: Such a qualification meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section only where the operator is employed by (and operating the equipment for) the employer that issued the qualification.
(B) Valid for the period of time stipulated by the issuing entity.
(b)
Operator training.
The employer must provide each operator-in-training with sufficient training, through a combination of formal and practical instruction, to ensure that the operator-in-training develops the skills, knowledge, and ability to recognize and avert risk necessary to operate the equipment safely for assigned work.
(1) The employer must provide instruction on the knowledge and skills listed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section to the operator-in-training.
(2) The operator-in-training must be continuously monitored on site by a trainer while operating equipment.
(3) The employer may only assign tasks within the operator-in-training's ability. However, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section, the operator-in-training shall not operate the equipment in any of the following circumstances unless certified in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section:
(i) If any part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), if operated up to the equipment's maximum working radius in the work zone (see § 1926.1408(a)(1)), could get within 20 feet of a power line that is up to 350 kV, or within 50 feet of a power line that is over 350 kV.
(ii) If the equipment is used to hoist personnel.
(iii) In multiple-equipment lifts.
(iv) If the equipment is used over a shaft, cofferdam, or in a tank farm.
(v) In multiple-lift rigging operations, except where the operator's trainer determines that the operator-in-training's skills are sufficient for this high-skill work.
(4) The employer must ensure that an operator-in-training is monitored as follows when operating equipment covered by this subpart:
(i) While operating the equipment, the operator-in-training must be continuously monitored by an individual (“operator's trainer”) who meets all of the following requirements:
(A) The operator's trainer is an employee or agent of the operator-in-training's employer.
(B) The operator's trainer has the knowledge, training, and experience necessary to direct the operator-in-training on the equipment in use.
(ii) While monitoring the operator-in-training, the operator's trainer performs no tasks that detract from the trainer's ability to monitor the operator-in-training.
(iii) For equipment other than tower cranes: The operator's trainer and the operator-in-training must be in direct line of sight of each other. In addition, they must communicate verbally or by hand signals. For tower cranes: The operator's trainer and the operator-in-training must be in direct communication with each other.
(iv) The operator-in-training must be monitored by the operator's trainer at all times, except for short breaks where all of the following are met:
(A) The break lasts no longer than 15 minutes and there is no more than one break per hour.
(B) Immediately prior to the break the operator's trainer informs the operator-in-training of the specific tasks that the operator-in-training is to perform and limitations to which he/she must adhere during the operator trainer's break.
(C) The specific tasks that the operator-in-training will perform during the operator trainer's break are within the operator-in-training's abilities.
(5)
Retraining.
The employer must provide retraining in relevant topics for each operator when, based on the performance of the operator or an evaluation of the operator's knowledge, there is an indication that retraining is necessary.
(c)
Operator certification and licensing.
The employer must ensure that each operator is certified or licensed to operate the equipment as follows:
(1)
Licensing.
When a state or local government issues operator licenses for equipment covered under subpart CC,
the equipment operator must be licensed by that government entity for operation of equipment within that entity's jurisdiction if that government licensing program meets the following requirements:
(i) The requirements for obtaining the license include an assessment, by written and practical tests, of the operator applicant regarding, at a minimum, the knowledge and skills listed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.
(ii) The testing meets industry-recognized criteria for written testing materials, practical examinations, test administration, grading, facilities/equipment, and personnel.
(iii) The government authority that oversees the licensing department/office has determined that the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section have been met.
(iv) The licensing department/office has testing procedures for re-licensing designed to ensure that the operator continues to meet the technical knowledge and skills requirements in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.
(v) For the purposes of compliance with this section, a license is valid for the period of time stipulated by the licensing department/office, but no longer than 5 years.
(2)
Certification.
When an operator is not required to be licensed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the operator must be certified in accordance with paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.
(3)
No cost to employees.
Whenever operator certification/licensure is required under this section, the employer must provide the certification/licensure at no cost to employees.
(4)
Provision of testing and training.
A testing entity is permitted to provide training as well as testing services as long as the criteria of the applicable governmental or accrediting agency (in the option selected) for an organization providing both services are met.
(d)
Certification by an accredited crane operator testing organization.
(1) For a certification to satisfy the requirements of this section, the crane operator testing organization providing the certification must:
(i) Be accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency based on that agency's determination that industry-recognized criteria for written testing materials, practical examinations, test administration, grading, facilities/equipment, and personnel have been met.
(ii) Administer written and practical tests that:
(A) Assess the operator applicant regarding, at a minimum, the knowledge and skills listed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.
(B) Provide certification based on equipment type, or type and capacity.
(iii) Have procedures for operators to re-apply and be re-tested in the event an operator applicant fails a test or is decertified.
(iv) Have testing procedures for re-certification designed to ensure that the operator continues to meet the technical knowledge and skills requirements in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.
(v) Have its accreditation reviewed by the nationally recognized accrediting agency at least every 3 years.
(2) If no accredited testing agency offers certification examinations for a particular type of equipment, an operator will be deemed to have complied with the certification requirements of this section for that equipment if the operator has been certified for the type that is most similar to that equipment and for which a certification examination is available. The operator's certificate must state the type of equipment for which the operator is certified.
(3) A certification issued under this option is portable among employers who are required to have operators certified under this option.
(4) A certification issued under this paragraph is valid for 5 years.
(e)
Audited employer program.
The employer's certification of its employee must meet the following requirements:
(1)
Testing.
The written and practical tests must be either:
(i) Developed by an accredited crane operator testing organization (see paragraph (d) of this section); or
(ii) Approved by an auditor in accordance with the following requirements:
(A) The auditor is certified to evaluate such tests by an accredited crane
operator testing organization (see paragraph (d) of this section).
(B) The auditor is not an employee of the employer.
(C) The approval must be based on the auditor's determination that the written and practical tests meet nationally recognized test development criteria and are valid and reliable in assessing the operator applicants regarding, at a minimum, the knowledge and skills listed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section.
(D) The audit must be conducted in accordance with nationally recognized auditing standards.
(2)
Administration of tests.
(i) The written and practical tests must be administered under circumstances approved by the auditor as meeting nationally recognized test administration standards.
(ii) The auditor must be certified to evaluate the administration of the written and practical tests by an accredited crane operator testing organization (see paragraph (d) of this section).
(iii) The auditor must not be an employee of the employer.
(iv) The audit must be conducted in accordance with nationally recognized auditing standards.
(3)
Timing of audit.
The employer program must be audited within 3 months of the beginning of the program and at least every 3 years thereafter.
(4)
Requalification.
The employer program must have testing procedures for re-qualification designed to ensure that the operator continues to meet the technical knowledge and skills requirements in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section. The re-qualification procedures must be audited in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(5)
Deficiencies.
If the auditor determines that there is a significant deficiency (“deficiency”) in the program, the employer must ensure that:
(i) No operator is qualified until the auditor confirms that the deficiency has been corrected.
(ii) The program is audited again within 180 days of the confirmation that the deficiency was corrected.
(iii) The auditor files a documented report of the deficiency to the appropriate Regional Office of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration within 15 days of the auditor's determination that there is a deficiency.
(iv) Records of the audits of the employer's program are maintained by the auditor for 3 years and are made available by the auditor to the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's designated representative upon request.
(6)
Audited-program certificates.
A certification under this paragraph is:
(i) Not portable: Such a certification meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section only where the operator is employed by (and operating the equipment for) the employer that issued the certification.
(ii) Valid for 5 years.
(f)
Evaluation.
(1) Through an evaluation, the employer must ensure that each operator is qualified by a demonstration of:
(i) The skills and knowledge, as well as the ability to recognize and avert risk, necessary to operate the equipment safely, including those specific to the safety devices, operational aids, software, and the size and configuration of the equipment. Size and configuration includes, but is not limited to, lifting capacity, boom length, attachments, luffing jib, and counterweight set-up.
(ii) The ability to perform the hoisting activities required for assigned work, including, if applicable, blind lifts, personnel hoisting, and multi-crane lifts.
(2) For operators employed prior to December 10, 2018, the employer may rely on its previous assessments of the operator in lieu of conducting a new evaluation of that operator's existing knowledge and skills.
(3) The definition of “qualified” in § 1926.32 does not apply to paragraph (f)(1) of this section: Possession of a certificate or degree cannot, by itself, cause a person to be qualified for purposes of paragraph (f)(1).
(4) The evaluation required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section must be conducted by an individual who has the knowledge, training, and experience necessary to assess equipment operators.
(5) The evaluator must be an employee or agent of the employer. Employers that assign evaluations to an agent retain the duty to ensure that the requirements in paragraph (f) are satisfied. Once the evaluation is completed successfully, the employer may allow the operator to operate other equipment that the employer can demonstrate does not require substantially different skills, knowledge, or ability to recognize and avert risk to operate.
(6) The employer must document the completion of the evaluation. This document must provide: The operator's name; the evaluator's name and signature; the date; and the make, model, and configuration of equipment used in the evaluation. The employer must make the document available at the worksite while the operator is employed by the employer. For operators assessed per paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the documentation must reflect the date of the employer's determination of the operator's abilities and the make, model and configuration of equipment on which the operator has previously demonstrated competency.
(7) When an employer is required to provide an operator with retraining under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the employer must re-evaluate the operator with respect to the subject of the retraining.
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Language and literacy requirements.
(1) Tests under this section may be administered verbally, with answers given verbally, where the operator candidate:
(i) Passes a written demonstration of literacy relevant to the work.
(ii) Demonstrates the ability to use the type of written manufacturer procedures applicable to the class/type of equipment for which the candidate is seeking certification.
(2) Tests under this section may be administered in any language the operator candidate understands, and the operator's certification documentation must note the language in which the test was given. The operator is only permitted to operate equipment that is furnished with materials required by this subpart, such as operations manuals and load charts, that are written in the language of the certification.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Certification criteria.
Certifications must be based on the following:
(1) A determination through a written test that:
(i) The individual knows the information necessary for safe operation of the specific type of equipment the individual will operate, including all of the following:
(A) The controls and operational/performance characteristics.
(B) Use of, and the ability to calculate (manually or with a calculator), load/capacity information on a variety of configurations of the equipment.
(C) Procedures for preventing and responding to power line contact.
(D) Technical knowledge of the subject matter criteria listed in appendix C of this subpart applicable to the specific type of equipment the individual will operate. Use of the appendix C criteria meets the requirements of this provision.
(E) Technical knowledge applicable to the suitability of the supporting ground and surface to handle expected loads, site hazards, and site access.
(F) This subpart, including applicable incorporated materials.
(ii) The individual is able to read and locate relevant information in the equipment manual and other materials containing information referred to in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) A determination through a practical test that the individual has the skills necessary for safe operation of the equipment, including the following:
(i) Ability to recognize, from visual and auditory observation, the items listed in § 1926.1412(d) (shift inspection).
(ii) Operational and maneuvering skills.
(iii) Application of load chart information.
(iv) Application of safe shut-down and securing procedures.
(k)
Effective dates.
(1) Apart from the evaluation and documentation requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f), this section is effective on December 10, 2018.
(2) The evaluation and documentation requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f) are effective on February 7, 2019.
[83 FR 56244, Nov. 9, 2018]
§ 1926.1428
Signal person qualifications.
(a) The employer of the signal person must ensure that each signal person meets the Qualification Requirements (paragraph (c) of this section) prior to giving any signals. This requirement must be met by using either Option (1) or Option (2) of this section.
(1)
Option (1)—Third party qualified evaluator.
The signal person has documentation from a third party qualified evaluator (
see
Qualified Evaluator (third party), § 1926.1401 for definition) showing that the signal person meets the Qualification Requirements (
see
paragraph (c) of this section).
(2)
Option (2)—Employer's qualified evaluator.
The employer's qualified (
see
Qualified Evaluator (not a third party), § 1926.1401 for definition) evaluator assesses the individual and determines that the individual meets the Qualification Requirements (
see
paragraph (c) of this section) and provides documentation of that determination. An assessment by an employer's qualified evaluator under this option is not portable—other employers are not permitted to use it to meet the requirements of this section.
(3) The employer must make the documentation for whichever option is used available at the site while the signal person is employed by the employer. The documentation must specify each type of signaling (
e.g.
hand signals, radio signals,
etc.
) for which the signal person meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) If subsequent actions by the signal person indicate that the individual does not meet the Qualification Requirements (
see
paragraph (c) of this section), the employer must not allow the individual to continue working as a signal person until re-training is provided and a re-assessment is made in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section that confirms that the individual meets the Qualification Requirements.
(c)
Qualification Requirements.
Each signal person must:
(1) Know and understand the type of signals used. If hand signals are used, the signal person must know and understand the Standard Method for hand signals.
(2) Be competent in the application of the type of signals used.
(3) Have a basic understanding of equipment operation and limitations, including the crane dynamics involved in swinging and stopping loads and boom deflection from hoisting loads.
(4) Know and understand the relevant requirements of §§ 1926.1419 through 1926.1422 and 1926.1428.
(5) Demonstrate that he/she meets the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section through an oral or written test, and through a practical test.
§ 1926.1429
Qualifications of maintenance
repair employees.
(a) Maintenance, inspection and repair personnel are permitted to operate the equipment only where all of the following requirements are met:
(1) The operation is limited to those functions necessary to perform maintenance, inspect the equipment, or verify its performance.
(2) The personnel either:
(i) Operate the equipment under the direct supervision of an operator who meets the requirements of § 1926.1427 (Operator qualification and certification); or
(ii) Are familiar with the operation, limitations, characteristics and hazards associated with the type of equipment.
(b) Maintenance and repair personnel must meet the definition of a qualified person with respect to the equipment and maintenance/repair tasks performed.
§ 1926.1430
Training.
The employer must provide training as follows:
(a)
Overhead powerlines.
The employer must train each employee specified in § 1926.1408(g) and § 1926.1410(m) in the topics listed in § 1926.1408(g).
(b)
Signal persons.
The employer must train each employee who will be assigned to work as a signal persons who does not meet the requirements of § 1926.1428(c) in the areas addressed in that paragraph.
(c)
Operators.
(1) The employer must train each operator in accordance with
§ 1926.1427(a) and (b), on the safe operation of the equipment the operator will be using.
(2) The employer must train each operator covered under the exception of § 1926.1427(a)(2) on the safe operation of the equipment the operator will be using.
(3) The employer must train each operator of the equipment covered by this subpart in the following practices:
(i) On friction equipment, whenever moving a boom off a support, first raise the boom a short distance (sufficient to take the load of the boom) to determine if the boom hoist brake needs to be adjusted. On other types of equipment with a boom, the same practice is applicable, except that typically there is no means of adjusting the brake; if the brake does not hold, a repair is necessary.
See
§ 1926.1417(f) and (j) for additional requirements.
(ii) Where available, the manufacturer's emergency procedures for halting unintended equipment movement.
(d)
Competent persons and qualified persons.
The employer must train each competent person and each qualified person regarding the requirements of this subpart applicable to their respective roles.
(e)
Crush/pinch points.
The employer must train each employee who works with the equipment to keep clear of holes, and crush/pinch points and the hazards addressed in § 1926.1424 (Work area control).
(f)
Tag-out.
The employer must train each operator and each additional employee authorized to start/energize equipment or operate equipment controls (such as maintenance and repair employees), in the tag-out and start-up procedures in §§ 1926.1417(f) and (g).
(g)
Training administration.
(1) The employer must evaluate each employee required to be trained under this subpart to confirm that the employee understands the information provided in the training.
(2) The employer must provide refresher training in relevant topics for each employee when, based on the conduct of the employee or an evaluation of the employee's knowledge, there is an indication that retraining is necessary.
(3) Whenever training is required under subpart CC, the employer must provide the training at no cost to the employee.
[75 FR 48135, Aug. 9, 2010, as amended at 83 FR 56247, Nov. 9, 2018]
§ 1926.1431
Hoisting personnel.
The requirements of this section are supplemental to the other requirements in this subpart and apply when one or more employees are hoisted.
(a) The use of equipment to hoist employees is prohibited except where the employer demonstrates that the erection, use, and dismantling of conventional means of reaching the work area, such as a personnel hoist, ladder, stairway, aerial lift, elevating work platform, or scaffold, would be more hazardous, or is not possible because of the project's structural design or worksite conditions. This paragraph does not apply to work covered by subpart R (Steel Erection) of this part and also does not apply to routine personnel access to an underground worksite via shaft as covered by § 1926.800 (Underground Construction) of this part.
(b)
Use of personnel platform.
(1) When using equipment to hoist employees, the employees must be in a personnel platform that meets the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)
Exceptions:
A personnel platform is not required for hoisting employees:
(i) Into and out of drill shafts that are up to and including 8 feet in diameter (
see
paragraph (o) of this section for requirements for hoisting these employees).
(ii) In pile driving operations (
see
paragraph (p) of this section for requirements for hoisting these employees).
(iii) Solely for transfer to or from a marine worksite in a marine-hoisted personnel transfer device (
see
paragraph (r) of this section for requirements for hoisting these employees).
(iv) In storage-tank (steel or concrete), shaft and chimney operations (
see
paragraph (s) of this section for requirements for hoisting these employees).
(c)
Equipment set-up.
(1) The equipment must be uniformly level, within one percent of level grade, and located on footing that a qualified person has
determined to be sufficiently firm and stable.
(2) Equipment with outriggers or stabilizers must have them all extended and locked. The amount of extension must be the same for all outriggers and stabilizers and in accordance with manufacturer procedures and load charts.
(d)
Equipment criteria
—(1)
Capacity: Use of suspended personnel platforms.
The total load (with the platform loaded, including the hook, load line and rigging) must not exceed 50 percent of the rated capacity for the radius and configuration of the equipment, except during proof testing.
(2)
Capacity: Use of boom-attached personnel platforms.
The total weight of the loaded personnel platform must not exceed 50 percent of the rated capacity for the radius and configuration of the equipment (except during proof testing).
(3)
Capacity: Hoisting personnel without a personnel platform.
When hoisting personnel without a personnel platform pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the total load (including the hook, load line, rigging and any other equipment that imposes a load) must not exceed 50 percent of the rated capacity for the radius and configuration of the equipment, except during proof testing.
(4) When the occupied personnel platform is in a stationary working position, the load and boom hoist brakes, swing brakes, and operator actuated secondary braking and locking features (such as pawls or dogs) or automatic secondary brakes must be engaged.
(5)
Devices.
(i) Equipment (except for derricks and articulating cranes) with a variable angle boom must be equipped with all of the following:
(A) A boom angle indicator, readily visible to the operator, and
(B) A boom hoist limiting device.
(ii) Articulating cranes must be equipped with a properly functioning automatic overload protection device.
(iii) Equipment with a luffing jib must be equipped with:
(A) A jib angle indicator, readily visible to the operator, and.
(B) A jib hoist limiting device.
(iv) Equipment with telescoping booms must be equipped with a device to indicate the boom's extended length clearly to the operator, or must have measuring marks on the boom.
(v)
Anti two-block.
A device which automatically prevents damage and load failure from contact between the load block, overhaul ball, or similar component, and the boom tip (or fixed upper block or similar component) must be used. The device(s) must prevent such damage/failure at all points where two-blocking could occur.
Exception:
This device is not required when hoisting personnel in pile driving operations. Instead, paragraph (p)(2) of this section specifies how to prevent two-blocking during such operations.
(vi)
Controlled load lowering.
The load line hoist drum must have a system, other than the load line hoist brake, which regulates the lowering rate of speed of the hoist mechanism. This system or device must be used when hoisting personnel.

# Note:
Free fall of the load line hoist is prohibited (
see
§ 1926.1426(d); the use of equipment in which the boom hoist mechanism can free fall is also prohibited (
see
§ 1926.1426(a)(1).
(vii)
Proper operation required.
Personnel hoisting operations must not begin unless the devices listed in this section are in proper working order. If a device stops working properly during such operations, the operator must safely stop operations. Personnel hoisting operations must not resume until the device is again working properly. Alternative measures are not permitted. (
See
§ 1926.1417 for tag-out and related requirements.)
(6) Direct attachment of a personnel platform to a luffing jib is prohibited.
(e)
Personnel platform criteria.
(1) A qualified person familiar with structural design must design the personnel platform and attachment/suspension system used for hoisting personnel.
(2) The system used to connect the personnel platform to the equipment must allow the platform to remain within 10 degrees of level, regardless of boom angle.
(3) The suspension system must be designed to minimize tipping of the platform due to movement of employees occupying the platform.
(4) The personnel platform itself (excluding the guardrail system and personal fall arrest system anchorages), must be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least five times the maximum intended load.
(5) All welding of the personnel platform and its components must be performed by a certified welder familiar with the weld grades, types and material specified in the platform design.
(6) The personnel platform must be equipped with a guardrail system which meets the requirements of subpart M of this part, and must be enclosed at least from the toeboard to mid-rail with either solid construction material or expanded metal having openings no greater than
1/2
inch (1.27 cm). Points to which personal fall arrest systems are attached must meet the anchorage requirements in subpart M of this part.
(7) A grab rail must be installed inside the entire perimeter of the personnel platform except for access gates/doors.
(8)
Access gates/doors.
If installed, access gates/doors of all types (including swinging, sliding, folding, or other types) must:
(i) Not swing outward. If due to the size of the personnel platform, such as a 1-person platform, it is infeasible for the door to swing inward and allow safe entry for the platform occupant, then the access gate/door may swing outward.
(ii) Be equipped with a device that prevents accidental opening.
(9) Headroom must be sufficient to allow employees to stand upright in the platform.
(10) In addition to the use of hard hats, employees must be protected by overhead protection on the personnel platform when employees are exposed to falling objects. The platform overhead protection must not obscure the view of the operator or platform occupants (such as wire mesh that has up to
1/2
inch openings), unless full protection is necessary.
(11) All edges exposed to employee contact must be smooth enough to prevent injury.
(12) The weight of the platform and its rated capacity must be conspicuously posted on the platform with a plate or other permanent marking.
(f)
Personnel platform loading.
(1) The personnel platform must not be loaded in excess of its rated capacity.
(2)
Use.
(i) Personnel platforms must be used only for employees, their tools, and the materials necessary to do their work. Platforms must not be used to hoist materials or tools when not hoisting personnel.
(ii)
Exception:
Materials and tools to be used during the lift, if secured and distributed in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section may be in the platform for trial lifts.
(3) Materials and tools must be:
(i) Secured to prevent displacement.
(ii) Evenly distributed within the confines of the platform while it is suspended.
(4) The number of employees occupying the personnel platform must not exceed the maximum number the platform was designed to hold or the number required to perform the work, whichever is less.
(g)
Attachment and rigging
—(1)
Hooks and other detachable devices.
(i) Hooks used in the connection between the hoist line and the personnel platform (including hooks on overhaul ball assemblies, lower load blocks, bridle legs, or other attachment assemblies or components) must be:
(A) Of a type that can be closed and locked, eliminating the throat opening.
(B) Closed and locked when attached.
(ii) Shackles used in place of hooks must be of the alloy anchor type, with either:
(A) A bolt, nut and retaining pin, in place; or
(B) Of the screw type, with the screw pin secured from accidental removal.
(iii) Where other detachable devices are used, they must be of the type that can be closed and locked to the same extent as the devices addressed in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. Such devices must be closed and locked when attached.
(2)
Rope bridle.
When a rope bridle is used to suspend the personnel platform, each bridle leg must be connected to a master link or shackle (
see
paragraph (g)(1) of this section) in a manner that ensures that the load is evenly divided among the bridle legs.
(3) Rigging hardware (including wire rope, shackles, rings, master links, and other rigging hardware) and hooks must be capable of supporting, without failure, at least five times the maximum intended load applied or transmitted to that component. Where rotation resistant rope is used, the slings must be capable of supporting without failure at least ten times the maximum intended load.
(4) Eyes in wire rope slings must be fabricated with thimbles.
(5) Bridles and associated rigging for suspending the personnel platform must be used only for the platform and the necessary employees, their tools and materials necessary to do their work. The bridles and associated rigging must not have been used for any purpose other than hoisting personnel.
(h)
Trial lift and inspection.
(1) A trial lift with the unoccupied personnel platform loaded at least to the anticipated liftweight must be made from ground level, or any other location where employees will enter the platform, to each location at which the platform is to be hoisted and positioned. Where there is more than one location to be reached from a single set-up position, either individual trial lifts for each location, or a single trial lift, in which the platform is moved sequentially to each location, must be performed; the method selected must be the same as the method that will be used to hoist the personnel.
(2) The trial lift must be performed immediately prior to each shift in which personnel will be hoisted. In addition, the trial lift must be repeated prior to hoisting employees in each of the following circumstances:
(i) The equipment is moved and set up in a new location or returned to a previously used location.
(ii) The lift route is changed, unless the competent person determines that the new route presents no new factors affecting safety.
(3) The competent person must determine that:
(i) Safety devices and operational aids required by this section are activated and functioning properly. Other safety devices and operational aids must meet the requirements of §§ 1926.1415 and 1926.1416.
(ii) Nothing interferes with the equipment or the personnel platform in the course of the trial lift.
(iii) The lift will not exceed 50 percent of the equipment's rated capacity at any time during the lift.
(iv) The load radius to be used during the lift has been accurately determined.
(4) Immediately after the trial lift, the competent person must:
(i) Conduct a visual inspection of the equipment, base support or ground, and personnel platform, to determine whether the trial lift has exposed any defect or problem or produced any adverse effect.
(ii) Confirm that, upon the completion of the trial lift process, the test weight has been removed.
(5) Immediately prior to each lift:
(i) The platform must be hoisted a few inches with the personnel and materials/tools on board and inspected by a competent person to ensure that it is secure and properly balanced.
(ii) The following conditions must be determined by a competent person to exist before the lift of personnel proceeds:
(A) Hoist ropes must be free of deficiencies in accordance with § 1926.1413(a).
(B) Multiple part lines must not be twisted around each other.
(C) The primary attachment must be centered over the platform.
(D) If the load rope is slack, the hoisting system must be inspected to ensure that all ropes are properly seated on drums and in sheaves.
(6) Any condition found during the trial lift and subsequent inspection(s) that fails to meet a requirement of this standard or otherwise creates a safety hazard must be corrected before hoisting personnel. (
See
§ 1926.1417 for tag-out and related requirements.)
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Proof testing.
(1) At each jobsite, prior to hoisting employees on the personnel platform, and after any repair or modification, the platform and rigging must be proof tested to 125 percent of the platform's rated capacity. The proof test may be done concurrently with the trial lift.
(2) The platform must be lowered by controlled load lowering, braked, and
held in a suspended position for a minimum of five minutes with the test load evenly distributed on the platform.
(3) After proof testing, a competent person must inspect the platform and rigging to determine if the test has been passed. If any deficiencies are found that pose a safety hazard, the platform and rigging must not be used to hoist personnel unless the deficiencies are corrected, the test is repeated, and a competent person determines that the test has been passed. (
See
§ 1926.1417 for tag-out and related requirements.)
(4) Personnel hoisting must not be conducted until the competent person determines that the platform and rigging have successfully passed the proof test.
(k)
Work practices.
(1) Hoisting of the personnel platform must be performed in a slow, controlled, cautious manner, with no sudden movements of the equipment or the platform.
(2) Platform occupants must:
(i) Keep all parts of the body inside the platform during raising, lowering, and horizontal movement. This provision does not apply to an occupant of the platform when necessary to position the platform or while performing the duties of a signal person.
(ii) Not stand, sit on, or work from the top or intermediate rail or toeboard, or use any other means/device to raise their working height.
(iii) Not pull the platform out of plumb in relation to the hoisting equipment.
(3) Before employees exit or enter a hoisted personnel platform that is not landed, the platform must be secured to the structure where the work is to be performed, unless the employer can demonstrate that securing to the structure would create a greater hazard.
(4) If the platform is tied to the structure, the operator must not move the platform until the operator receives confirmation that it is freely suspended.
(5) Tag lines must be used when necessary to control the platform.
(6)
Platforms without controls.
Where the platform is not equipped with controls, the equipment operator must remain at the equipment controls, on site, and in view of the equipment, at all times while the platform is occupied.
(7)
Platforms with controls.
Where the platform is equipped with controls, all of the following must be met at all times while the platform is occupied:
(i) The occupant using the controls in the platform must be a qualified person with respect to their use, including the safe limitations of the equipment and hazards associated with its operation.
(ii) The equipment operator must be at a set of equipment controls that include boom and swing functions of the equipment, and must be on site and in view of the equipment.
(iii) The platform operating manual must be in the platform or on the equipment.
(8)
Environmental conditions
—(i)
Wind.
When wind speed (sustained or gusts) exceeds 20 mph at the personnel platform, a qualified person must determine if, in light of the wind conditions, it is not safe to lift personnel. If it is not, the lifting operation must not begin (or, if already in progress, must be terminated).
(ii)
Other weather and environmental conditions.
A qualified person must determine if, in light of indications of dangerous weather conditions, or other impending or existing danger, it is not safe to lift personnel. If it is not, the lifting operation must not begin (or, if already in progress, must be terminated).
(9) Employees being hoisted must remain in direct communication with the signal person (where used), or the operator.
(10)
Fall protection.
(i) Except over water, employees occupying the personnel platform must be provided and use a personal fall arrest system. The system must be attached to a structural member within the personnel platform. When working over or near water, the requirements of § 1926.106 apply.
(ii) The fall arrest system, including the attachment point (anchorage) used to comply with paragraph (i) of this section, must meet the requirements in § 1926.502.
(11)
Other load lines.
(i) No lifts must be made on any other of the equipment's load lines while personnel are being hoisted, except in pile driving operations.
(ii)
Factory-produced boom-mounted personnel platforms that incorporate a winch as original equipment.
Loads are permitted to be hoisted by such a winch while employees occupy the personnel platform only where the load on the winch line does not exceed 500 pounds and does not exceed the rated capacity of the winch and platform.
(12)
Traveling—equipment other than derricks.
(i) Hoisting of employees while the equipment is traveling is prohibited, except for:
(A) Equipment that travels on fixed rails; or
(B) Where the employer demonstrates that there is no less hazardous way to perform the work.
(C) This exception does not apply to rubber-tired equipment.
(ii) Where employees are hoisted while the equipment is traveling, all of the following criteria must be met:
(A) Equipment travel must be restricted to a fixed track or runway.
(B) Where a runway is used, it must be a firm, level surface designed, prepared and designated as a path of travel for the weight and configuration of the equipment being used to lift and travel with the personnel platform. An existing surface may be used as long as it meets these criteria.
(C) Equipment travel must be limited to boom length.
(D) The boom must be parallel to the direction of travel, except where it is safer to do otherwise.
(E) A complete trial run must be performed to test the route of travel before employees are allowed to occupy the platform. This trial run can be performed at the same time as the trial lift required by paragraph (h) of this section which tests the lift route.
(13)
Traveling—derricks.
Derricks are prohibited from traveling while personnel are hoisted.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Pre-lift meeting.
A pre-lift meeting must be:
(1) Held to review the applicable requirements of this section and the procedures that will be followed.
(2) Attended by the equipment operator, signal person (if used for the lift), employees to be hoisted, and the person responsible for the task to be performed.
(3) Held prior to the trial lift at each new work location, and must be repeated for any employees newly assigned to the operation.
(n)
Hoisting personnel near power lines.
Hoisting personnel within 20 feet of a power line that is up to 350 kV, and hoisting personnel within 50 feet of a power line that is over 350 kV, is prohibited, except for work covered by subpart V of this part (Power Transmission and Distribution).
(o)
Hoisting personnel in drill shafts.
When hoisting employees into and out of drill shafts that are up to and including 8 feet in diameter, all of the following requirements must be met:
(1) The employee must be in either a personnel platform or on a boatswain's chair.
(2) If using a personnel platform, paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section apply.
(3) If using a boatswain's chair:
(i) The following paragraphs of this section apply: (a), (c), (d)(1), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (f)(1), (f)(2)(i), (f)(3)(i), (g), (h), (k)(1), (k)(6), (k)(8), (k)(9), (k)(11)(i), (m), (n). Where the terms “personnel platform” or “platform” are used in these paragraphs, substitute them with “boatswain's chair.”
(ii) A signal person must be stationed at the shaft opening.
(iii) The employee must be hoisted in a slow, controlled descent and ascent.
(iv) The employee must use personal fall protection equipment, including a full body harness, attached independent of the crane/derrick.
(v) The fall protection equipment must meet the applicable requirements in § 1926.502.
(vi) The boatswain's chair itself (excluding the personal fall arrest system anchorages), must be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least five times the maximum intended load.
(vii) No more than one person must be hoisted at a time.
(p)
Hoisting personnel for pile driving operations.
When hoisting an employee
in pile driving operations, the following requirements must be met:
(1) The employee must be in a personnel platform or boatswain's chair.
(2) For lattice boom cranes: Clearly mark the cable (so that it can easily be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, or use a spotter who is in direct communication with the operator to inform the operator when this point is reached. For telescopic boom cranes: Clearly mark the cable (so that it can be easily seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, and use a spotter who is in direct communication with the operator to inform the operator when this point is reached.
(3) If using a personnel platform, paragraphs (b) through (n) of this section apply.
(4) If using a boatswain's chair:
(i) The following paragraphs of this section apply: (a), (c), (d)(1), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (f)(1), (f)(2)(i), (f)(3)(i), (g), (h), (j), (k)(1), (k)(6), (k)(8), (k)(9), (k)(11)(i), (m), and (n). Where the terms “personnel platform” or “platform” are used in these paragraphs, substitute them with “boatswains chair.”
(ii) The employee must be hoisted in a slow, controlled descent and ascent.
(iii) The employee must use personal fall protection equipment, including a full body harness, independently attached to the lower load block or overhaul ball.
(iv) The fall protection equipment must meet the applicable requirements in § 1926.502.
(v) The boatswain's chair itself (excluding the personal fall arrest system anchorages), must be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least five times the maximum intended load.
(vi) No more than one person must be hoisted at a time.
(q) [Reserved]
(r)
Hoisting personnel for marine transfer.
When hoisting employees solely for transfer to or from a marine worksite, the following requirements must be met:
(1) The employee must be in either a personnel platform or a marine-hoisted personnel transfer device.
(2) If using a personnel platform, paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section apply.
(3) If using a marine-hoisted personnel transfer device:
(i) The following paragraphs of this section apply: (a), (c)(2), (d)(1), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1) through (5), (e)(12), (f)(1), (g), (h), (j), (k)(1), (k)(8), (k)(9), (k)(10)(ii), (k)(11)(i), (k)(12), (m), and (n). Where the terms “personnel platform” or “platform” are used in these paragraphs, substitute them with “marine-hoisted personnel transfer device.”
(ii) The transfer device must be used only for transferring workers.
(iii) The number of workers occupying the transfer device must not exceed the maximum number it was designed to hold.
(iv) Each employee must wear a U.S. Coast Guard personal flotation device approved for industrial use.
(s)
Hoisting personnel for storage-tank (steel or concrete), shaft and chimney operations.
When hoisting an employee in storage tank (steel or concrete), shaft and chimney operations, the following requirements must be met:
(1) The employee must be in a personnel platform except when the employer can demonstrate that use of a personnel platform is infeasible; in such a case, a boatswain's chair must be used.
(2) If using a personnel platform, paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section apply.
(3) If using a boatswain's chair:
(i) The following paragraphs of this section apply: (a), (c), (d)(1), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (f)(1), (f)(2)(i), (f)(3)(i), (g), (h), (k)(1), (k)(6), (k)(8), (k)(9), (k)(11)(i), (m), (n). Where the terms “personnel platform” or “platform” are used in these paragraphs, substitute them with “boatswains chair.”
(ii) The employee must be hoisted in a slow, controlled descent and ascent.
(iii) The employee must use personal fall protection equipment, including a full body harness, attached independent of the crane/derrick. When
there is no adequate structure for attachment of personal fall arrest equipment as required in § 1926.502(d)(15), the attachment must be to the lower load block or overhaul ball.
(iv) The fall protection equipment must meet the applicable requirements in § 1926.502.
(v) The boatswain's chair itself (excluding the personal fall arrest system anchorages), must be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least five times the maximum intended load.
(vi) No more than one person must be hoisted at a time.
[75 FR 48135, Aug. 9, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 8746, Feb. 18, 2020]
§ 1926.1432
Multiple-crane/derrick lifts—supplemental requirements.
(a)
Plan development.
Before beginning a crane/derrick operation in which more than one crane/derrick will be supporting the load, the operation must be planned. The planning must meet the following requirements:
(1) The plan must be developed by a qualified person.
(2) The plan must be designed to ensure that the requirements of this subpart are met.
(3) Where the qualified person determines that engineering expertise is needed for the planning, the employer must ensure that it is provided.
(b)
Plan implementation.
(1) The multiple-crane/derrick lift must be directed by a person who meets the criteria for both a competent person and a qualified person, or by a competent person who is assisted by one or more qualified persons (lift director).
(2) The lift director must review the plan in a meeting with all workers who will be involved with the operation.
§ 1926.1433
Design, construction and testing.
The following requirements apply to equipment that has a manufacturer-rated hoisting/lifting capacity of more than 2,000 pounds.
(a) Crawler, truck and locomotive cranes manufactured prior to November 8, 2010 must meet the applicable requirements for design, construction, and testing as prescribed in ANSI B30.5-1968 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6), PCSA Std. No. 2 (1968) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6), the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, or the applicable DIN standards that were in effect at the time of manufacture.
(b) Mobile (including crawler and truck) and locomotive cranes manufactured on or after November 8, 2010 must meet the following portions of ASME B30.5-2004 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) as applicable:
(1) In section 5-1.1.1 (“Load Ratings—Where Stability Governs Lifting Performance”), paragraphs (a)-(d) (including subparagraphs).
(2) In section 5-1.1.2 (“Load Ratings—Where Structural Competence Governs Lifting Performance”), paragraph (b).
(3) Section 5-1.2 (“Stability (Backward and Forward)”).
(4) In section 5-1.3.1 (“Boom Hoist Mechanism”), paragraphs (a), (b)(1) and (b)(2), except that when using rotation resistant rope, § 1926.1414(c)(4)(ii)(A) applies.
(5) In section 5-1.3.2 (“Load Hoist Mechanism”), paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4) (including subparagraphs), (b) (including subparagraphs), (c) (first sentence only) and (d).
(6) Section 5-1.3.3 (“Telescoping Boom”).
(7) Section 5-1.4 (“Swing Mechanism”).
(8) In section 5-1.5 (“Crane Travel”), all provisions except 5-1.5.3(d).
(9) In section 5-1.6 (“Controls”), all provisions except 5-1.6.1 (c).
(10) Section 5-1.7.4 (“Sheaves”).
(11) Section 5-1.7.5 (“Sheave sizes”).
(12) In section 5-1.9.1 (“Booms”), paragraph (f).
(13) Section 5-1.9.3 (“Outriggers”).
(14) Section 5-1.9.4 (“Locomotive Crane Equipment”).
(15) Section 5-1.9.7 (“Clutch and Brake Protection”).
(16) In section 5-1.9.11 (“Miscellaneous equipment”), paragraphs (a), (c), (e), and (f).
(c) Prototype testing: mobile (including crawler and truck) and locomotive cranes manufactured on or after November 8, 2010 must meet the prototype testing requirements in Test Option A or Test Option B of this section. Tower cranes manufactured on or after November 8, 2010 must meet the prototype
testing requirements in BS EN 14439:2006 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6).

# Note:
Prototype testing of crawler, locomotive and truck cranes manufactured prior to November 8, 2010 must conform to paragraph (a) of this section.
(1)
Test Option A.
(i) The following applies to equipment with cantilevered booms (such as hydraulic boom cranes): All the tests listed in SAE J1063 (Nov. 1993) Table 1 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) must be performed to load all critical structural elements to their respective limits. All the strength margins listed in SAE J1063 (Nov. 1993) Table 2 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) must be met.
(ii) The following applies to equipment with pendant supported lattice booms: All the tests listed in SAE J987 (Jun. 2003) Table 1 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) must be performed to load all critical structural elements to their respective limits. All the strength margins listed in SAE J987 (Jun. 2003) Table 2 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) must be met.
(2)
Test Option B.
The testing and verification requirements of BS EN 13000:2004 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) must be met. In applying BS EN 13000:2004, the following additional requirements must be met:
(i) The following applies to equipment with cantilevered booms (such as hydraulic boom cranes): The analysis methodology (computer modeling) must demonstrate that all load cases listed in SAE J1063 (Nov. 1993) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) meet the strength margins listed in SAE J1063 (Nov. 1993) Table 2.
(ii) The following applies to equipment with pendant supported lattice booms: The analysis methodology (computer modeling) must demonstrate that all load cases listed in SAE J987 (Jun. 2003) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) meet the strength margins listed in SAE J987 (Jun. 2003) Table 2.
(iii)
Analysis verification.
The physical testing requirements under SAE J1063 (Nov. 1993) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) and SAE J987 (Jun. 2003) (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) must be met unless the reliability of the analysis methodology (computer modeling) has been demonstrated by a documented history of verification through strain gauge measuring or strain gauge measuring in combination with other physical testing.
(d) All equipment covered by this subpart must meet the following requirements:
(1)
Rated capacity and related information.
The information available in the cab (
see
§ 1926.1417(c)) regarding “rated capacity” and related information must include, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) A complete range of the manufacturer's equipment rated capacities, as follows:
(A) At all manufacturer approved operating radii, boom angles, work areas, boom lengths and configurations, jib lengths and angles (or offset).
(B) Alternate ratings for use and nonuse of option equipment which affects rated capacities, such as outriggers, stabilizers, and extra counterweights.
(ii) A work area chart for which capacities are listed in the load chart. (
Note:
An example of this type of chart is in ASME B30.5-2004, section 5-1.1.3, Figure 11).
(iii) The work area figure and load chart must clearly indicate the areas where no load is to be handled.
(iv) Recommended reeving for the hoist lines must be shown.
(v) Recommended parts of hoist reeving, size, and type of wire rope for various equipment loads.
(vi) Recommended boom hoist reeving diagram, where applicable; size, type and length of wire rope.
(vii) Tire pressure (where applicable).
(viii) Caution or warnings relative to limitations on equipment and operating procedures, including an indication of the least stable direction.
(ix) Position of the gantry and requirements for intermediate boom suspension (where applicable).
(x) Instructions for boom erection and conditions under which the boom, or boom and jib combinations, may be raised or lowered.
(xi) Whether the hoist holding mechanism is automatically or manually controlled, whether free fall is available, or any combination of these.
(xii) The maximum telescopic travel length of each boom telescopic section.
(xiii) Whether sections are telescoped manually or with power.
(xiv) The sequence and procedure for extending and retracting the telescopic boom section.
(xv) Maximum loads permitted during the boom extending operation, and any limiting conditions or cautions.
(xvi) Hydraulic relief valve settings specified by the manufacturer.
(2) Load hooks (including latched and unlatched types), ball assemblies and load blocks must be of sufficient weight to overhaul the line from the highest hook position for boom or boom and jib lengths and the number of parts of the line in use.
(3) Hook and ball assemblies and load blocks must be marked with their rated capacity and weight.
(4)
Latching hooks.
(i) Hooks must be equipped with latches, except where the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section are met.
(ii) Hooks without latches, or with latches removed or disabled, must not be used unless:
(A) A qualified person has determined that it is safer to hoist and place the load without latches (or with the latches removed/tied-back).
(B) Routes for the loads are pre-planned to ensure that no employee is required to work in the fall zone except for employees necessary for the hooking or unhooking of the load.
(iii) The latch must close the throat opening and be designed to retain slings or other lifting devices/accessories in the hook when the rigging apparatus is slack.
(5)
Posted warnings.
Posted warnings required by this subpart as well as those originally supplied with the equipment by the manufacturer must be maintained in legible condition.
(6) An accessible fire extinguisher must be on the equipment.
(7)
Cabs.
Equipment with cabs must meet the following requirements:
(i) Cabs must be designed with a form of adjustable ventilation and method for clearing the windshield for maintaining visibility and air circulation. Examples of means for adjustable ventilation include air conditioner or window that can be opened (for ventilation and air circulation); examples of means for maintaining visibility include heater (for preventing windshield icing), defroster, fan, windshield wiper.
(ii) Cab doors (swinging, sliding) must be designed to prevent inadvertent opening or closing while traveling or operating the machine. Swinging doors adjacent to the operator must open outward. Sliding operator doors must open rearward.
(iii)
Windows.
(A) The cab must have windows in front and on both sides of the operator. Forward vertical visibility must be sufficient to give the operator a view of the boom point at all times.
(B) Windows may have sections designed to be opened or readily removed. Windows with sections designed to be opened must be designed so that they can be secured to prevent inadvertent closure.
(C) Windows must be of safety glass or material with similar optical and safety properties, that introduce no visible distortion or otherwise obscure visibility that interferes with the safe operation of the equipment.
(iv) A clear passageway must be provided from the operator's station to an exit door on the operator's side.
(v) Areas of the cab roof that serve as a workstation for rigging, maintenance or other equipment-related tasks must be capable of supporting 250 pounds without permanent distortion.
(8) Belts, gears, shafts, pulleys, sprockets, spindles, drums, fly wheels, chains, and other parts or components that reciprocate, rotate or otherwise move must be guarded where contact by employees (except for maintenance and repair employees) is possible in the performance of normal duties.
(9) All exhaust pipes, turbochargers, and charge air coolers must be insulated or guarded where contact by employees (except for maintenance and repair employees) is possible in the performance of normal duties.
(10) Hydraulic and pneumatic lines must be protected from damage to the extent feasible.
(11) The equipment must be designed so that exhaust fumes are not discharged in the cab and are discharged in a direction away from the operator.
(12)
Friction mechanisms.
Where friction mechanisms (such as brakes and
clutches) are used to control the boom hoist or load line hoist, they must be:
(i) Of a size and thermal capacity sufficient to control all rated loads with the minimum recommended reeving.
(ii) Adjustable to permit compensation for lining wear to maintain proper operation.
(13)
Hydraulic load hoists.
Hydraulic drums must have an integrally mounted holding device or internal static brake to prevent load hoist movement in the event of hydraulic failure.
(e) The employer's obligations under paragraphs (a) through (c) and (d)(7) through (13) of this section are met where the equipment has not changed (except in accordance with § 1926.1434 (Equipment modifications)) and it can refer to documentation from the manufacturer showing that the equipment has been designed, constructed and tested in accordance with those paragraphs.
§ 1926.1434
Equipment modifications.
(a) Modifications or additions which affect the capacity or safe operation of the equipment are prohibited except where the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section are met.
(1)
Manufacturer review and approval.
(i) The manufacturer approves the modifications/additions in writing.
(ii) The load charts, procedures, instruction manuals and instruction plates/tags/decals are modified as necessary to accord with the modification/addition.
(iii) The original safety factor of the equipment is not reduced.
(2)
Manufacturer refusal to review request.
The manufacturer is provided a detailed description of the proposed modification/addition, is asked to approve the modification/addition, but it declines to review the technical merits of the proposal or fails, within 30 days, to acknowledge the request or initiate the review, and all of the following are met:
(i) A registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to the equipment involved:
(A) Approves the modification/addition and specifies the equipment configurations to which that approval applies, and
(B) Modifies load charts, procedures, instruction manuals and instruction plates/tags/decals as necessary to accord with the modification/addition.
(ii) The original safety factor of the equipment is not reduced.
(3)
Unavailable manufacturer.
The manufacturer is unavailable and the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.
(4)
Manufacturer does not complete the review within 120 days of the request.
The manufacturer is provided a detailed description of the proposed modification/addition, is asked to approve the modification/addition, agrees to review the technical merits of the proposal, but fails to complete the review of the proposal within 120 days of the date it was provided the detailed description of the proposed modification/addition, and the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.
(5)
Multiple manufacturers of equipment designed for use on marine work sites.
The equipment is designed for marine work sites, contains major structural components from more than one manufacturer, and the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.
(b) Modifications or additions which affect the capacity or safe operation of the equipment are prohibited where the manufacturer, after a review of the technical safety merits of the proposed modification/addition, rejects the proposal and explains the reasons for the rejection in a written response. If the manufacturer rejects the proposal but does not explain the reasons for the rejection in writing, the employer may treat this as a manufacturer refusal to review the request under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(c) The provisions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to modifications made or approved by the U.S. military.
§ 1926.1435
Tower cranes.
(a) This section contains supplemental requirements for tower cranes; all sections of this subpart apply to tower cranes unless specified otherwise.
(b)
Erecting, climbing and dismantling.
(1) Section 1926.1403 (Assembly/Disassembly—selection of manufacturer
or employer procedures), § 1926.1404 (Assembly/Disassembly—general requirements (applies to all assembly and disassembly operations)), § 1926.1405 (Disassembly—additional requirements for dismantling of booms and jibs (applies to both the use of manufacturer procedures and employer procedures)), and § 1926.1406 (Assembly/Disassembly—employer procedures—general requirements), apply to tower cranes (except as otherwise specified), except that the term “assembly/disassembly” is replaced by “erecting, climbing and dismantling,” and the term “disassembly” is replaced by “dismantling.”
(2)
Dangerous areas (self-erecting tower cranes).
In addition to the requirements in § 1926.1404(e), for self-erecting tower cranes, the following applies: Employees must not be in or under the tower, jib, or rotating portion of the crane during erecting, climbing and dismantling operations until the crane is secured in a locked position and the competent person in charge indicates it is safe to enter this area, unless the manufacturer's instructions direct otherwise and only the necessary personnel are permitted in this area.
(3)
Foundations and structural supports.
Tower crane foundations and structural supports (including both the portions of the structure used for support and the means of attachment) must be designed by the manufacturer or a registered professional engineer.
(4)
Addressing specific hazards.
The requirements in § 1926.1404(h)(1) through (9) apply. In addition, the A/D director must address the following:
(i)
Foundations and structural supports.
The A/D director must determine that tower crane foundations and structural supports are installed in accordance with their design.
(ii)
Loss of backward stability.
Backward stability before swinging self erecting cranes or cranes on traveling or static undercarriages.
(iii)
Wind speed.
Wind must not exceed the speed recommended by the manufacturer or, where manufacturer does not specify this information, the speed determined by a qualified person.
(5)
Plumb tolerance.
Towers must be erected plumb to the manufacturer's tolerance and verified by a qualified person. Where the manufacturer does not specify plumb tolerance, the crane tower must be plumb to a tolerance of at least 1:500 (approximately 1 inch in 40 feet).
(6)
Multiple tower crane jobsites.
On jobsites where more than one fixed jib (hammerhead) tower crane is installed, the cranes must be located such that no crane can come in contact with the structure of another crane. Cranes are permitted to pass over one another.
(7)
Climbing procedures.
Prior to, and during, all climbing procedures (including inside climbing and top climbing), the employer must:
(i) Comply with all manufacturer prohibitions.
(ii) Have a registered professional engineer verify that the host structure is strong enough to sustain the forces imposed through the braces, brace anchorages and supporting floors.
(8)
Counterweight/ballast.
(i) Equipment must not be erected, dismantled or operated without the amount and position of counterweight and/or ballast in place as specified by the manufacturer or a registered professional engineer familiar with the equipment.
(ii) The maximum counterweight and/or ballast specified by the manufacturer or registered professional engineer familiar with the equipment must not be exceeded.
(c)
Signs.
The size and location of signs installed on tower cranes must be in accordance with manufacturer specifications. Where these are unavailable, a registered professional engineer familiar with the type of equipment involved must approve in writing the size and location of any signs.
(d)
Safety devices.
(1) Section 1926.1415 does not apply to tower cranes.
(2) The following safety devices are required on all tower cranes unless otherwise specified:
(i) Boom stops on luffing boom type tower cranes.
(ii) Jib stops on luffing boom type tower cranes if equipped with a jib attachment.
(iii) Travel rail end stops at both ends of travel rail.
(iv) Travel rail clamps on all travel bogies.
(v) Integrally mounted check valves on all load supporting hydraulic cylinders.
(vi) Hydraulic system pressure limiting device.
(vii) The following brakes, which must automatically set in the event of pressure loss or power failure, are required:
(A) A hoist brake on all hoists.
(B) Swing brake.
(C) Trolley brake.
(D) Rail travel brake.
(viii) Deadman control or forced neutral return control (hand) levers.
(ix) Emergency stop switch at the operator's station.
(x) Trolley end stops must be provided at both ends of travel of the trolley.
(3)
Proper operation required.
Operations must not begin unless the devices listed in this section are in proper working order. If a device stops working properly during operations, the operator must safely stop operations. The equipment must be taken out of service, and operations must not resume until the device is again working properly.
See
§ 1926.1417(f). Alternative measures are not permitted to be used.
(e)
Operational aids.
(1) Section 1926.1416 does not apply to tower cranes.
(2) The devices listed in this section (“operational aids”) are required on all tower cranes covered by this subpart, unless otherwise specified.
(3) Operations must not begin unless the operational aids are in proper working order, except where the employer meets the specified temporary alternative measures. More protective alternative measures specified by the tower crane manufacturer, if any, must be followed.
See
§ 1926.1417(j) for additional requirements.
(4) If an operational aid stops working properly during operations, the operator must safely stop operations until the temporary alternative measures are implemented or the device is again working properly. If a replacement part is no longer available, the use of a substitute device that performs the same type of function is permitted and is not considered a modification under § 1926.1434.
(5)
Category I operational aids and alternative measures.
Operational aids listed in this paragraph that are not working properly must be repaired no later than 7 calendar days after the deficiency occurs.
Exception:
If the employer documents that it has ordered the necessary parts within 7 calendar days of the occurrence of the deficiency, the repair must be completed within 7 calendar days of receipt of the parts.
(i)
Trolley travel limiting device.
The travel of the trolley must be restricted at both ends of the jib by a trolley travel limiting device to prevent the trolley from running into the trolley end stops.
Temporary alternative measures:
(A)
Option A.
The trolley rope must be marked (so it can be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the trolley prior to the end stops.
(B)
Option B.
A spotter who is in direct communication with the operator must be used when operations are conducted within 10 feet of the outer or inner trolley end stops.
(ii)
Boom hoist limiting device.
The range of the boom must be limited at the minimum and maximum radius.
Temporary alternative measures:
Clearly mark the cable (so it can be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the boom hoist within the minimum and maximum boom radius, or use a spotter who is in direct communication with the operator to inform the operator when this point is reached.
(iii)
Anti two-blocking device.
The tower crane must be equipped with a device which automatically prevents damage from contact between the load block, overhaul ball, or similar component, and the boom tip (or fixed upper block or similar component). The device(s) must prevent such damage at all points where two-blocking could occur.
Temporary alternative measures:
Clearly mark the cable (so it can be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, or use a spotter who is in direct communication with the operator to inform the operator when this point is reached.
(iv)
Hoist drum lower limiting device.
Tower cranes manufactured after November 8, 2011 must be equipped with a device that prevents the last 2 wraps of hoist cable from being spooled off the drum.
Temporary alternative measures:
Mark the cable (so it can be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist prior to last 2 wraps of hoist cable being spooled off the drum, or use a spotter who is in direct communication with the operator to inform the operator when this point is reached
(v)
Load moment limiting device.
The tower crane must have a device that prevents moment overloading.
Temporary alternative measures:
A radius indicating device must be used (if the tower crane is not equipped with a radius indicating device, the radius must be measured to ensure the load is within the rated capacity of the crane). In addition, the weight of the load must be determined from a source recognized by the industry (such as the load's manufacturer), or by a calculation method recognized by the industry (such as calculating a steel beam from measured dimensions and a known per foot weight), or by other equally reliable means. This information must be provided to the operator prior to the lift.
(vi)
Hoist line pull limiting device.
The capacity of the hoist must be limited to prevent overloading, including each individual gear ratio if equipped with a multiple speed hoist transmission.
Temporary alternative measures:
The operator must ensure that the weight of the load does not exceed the capacity of the hoist (including for each individual gear ratio if equipped with a multiple speed hoist transmission).
(vii)
Rail travel limiting device.
The travel distance in each direction must be limited to prevent the travel bogies from running into the end stops or buffers.
Temporary alternative measures:
A spotter who is in direct communication with the operator must be used when operations are conducted within 10 feet of either end of the travel rail end stops; the spotter must inform the operator of the distance of the travel bogies from the end stops or buffers.
(viii)
Boom hoist drum positive locking device and control.
The boom hoist drum must be equipped with a control that will enable the operator to positively lock the boom hoist drum from the cab.
Temporary alternative measures:
The device must be manually set when required if an electric, hydraulic or automatic control is not functioning.
(6)
Category II operational aids and alternative measures.
Operational aids listed in this paragraph that are not working properly must be repaired no later than 30 calendar days after the deficiency occurs.
Exception:
If the employer documents that it has ordered the necessary parts within 7 calendar days of the occurrence of the deficiency, and the part is not received in time to complete the repair in 30 calendar days, the repair must be completed within 7 calendar days of receipt of the parts.
(i)
Boom angle or hook radius indicator.
(A) Luffing boom tower cranes must have a boom angle indicator readable from the operator's station.
(B) Hammerhead tower cranes manufactured after November 8, 2011 must have a hook radius indicator readable from the operator's station.
(C)
Temporary alternative measures:
Hook radii or boom angle must be determined by measuring the hook radii or boom angle with a measuring device.
(ii)
Trolley travel deceleration device.
The trolley speed must be automatically reduced prior to the trolley reaching the end limit in both directions.
Temporary alternative measure:
The employer must post a notice in the cab of the crane notifying the operator that the trolley travel deceleration device is malfunctioning and instructing the operator to take special care to reduce the trolley speed when approaching the trolley end limits.
(iii)
Boom hoist deceleration device.
The boom speed must be automatically reduced prior to the boom reaching the minimum or maximum radius limit.
Temporary alternative measure:
The employer must post a notice in the cab of the crane notifying the operator that the boom hoist deceleration device is malfunctioning and instructing the operator to take special care to reduce the boom speed when approaching the minimum or maximum radius limits.
(iv)
Load hoist deceleration device.
The load speed must be automatically reduced prior to the hoist reaching the upper limit.
Temporary alternative measure:
The employer must post a notice in the cab of the crane notifying the operator that the load hoist deceleration device is malfunctioning and instructing the operator to take special care to reduce the load speed when approaching the upper limits.
(v)
Wind speed indicator.
A device must be provided to display the wind speed and must be mounted above the upper rotating structure on tower cranes. On self erecting cranes, it must be mounted at or above the jib level.
Temporary alternative measures:
Use of wind speed information from a properly functioning indicating device on another tower crane on the same site, or a qualified person estimates the wind speed.
(vi)
Load indicating device.
Cranes manufactured after November 8, 2011 must have a device that displays the magnitude of the load on the hook. Displays that are part of load moment limiting devices that display the load on the hook meet this requirement.
Temporary alternative measures:
The weight of the load must be determined from a source recognized by the industry (such as the load's manufacturer), or by a calculation method recognized by the industry (such as calculating a steel beam from measured dimensions and a known per foot weight), or by other equally reliable means. This information must be provided to the operator prior to the lift.
(f)
Inspections.
(1) Section 1926.1412 (Inspections) applies to tower cranes, except that the term “assembly” is replaced by “erection.” Section 1926.1413 (Wire rope—inspection) applies to tower cranes.
(2)
Pre-erection inspection.
Before each crane component is erected, it must be inspected by a qualified person for damage or excessive wear.
(i) The qualified person must pay particular attention to components that will be difficult to inspect thoroughly during shift inspections.
(ii) If the qualified person determines that a component is damaged or worn to the extent that it would create a safety hazard if used on the crane, that component must not be erected on the crane unless it is repaired and, upon reinspection by the qualified person, found to no longer create a safety hazard.
(iii) If the qualified person determines that, though not presently a safety hazard, the component needs to be monitored, the employer must ensure that the component is checked in the monthly inspections. Any such determination must be documented, and the documentation must be available to any individual who conducts a monthly inspection.
(3)
Post-erection inspection.
In addition to the requirements in § 1926.1412(c), the following requirements must be met:
(i) A load test using certified weights, or scaled weights using a certified scale with a current certificate of calibration, must be conducted after each erection.
(ii) The load test must be conducted in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions when available. Where these instructions are unavailable, the test must be conducted in accordance with written load test procedures developed by a registered professional engineer familiar with the type of equipment involved.
(4)
Monthly.
The following additional items must be included:
(i) Tower (mast) bolts and other structural bolts (for loose or dislodged condition) from the base of the tower crane up or, if the crane is tied to or braced by the structure, those above the upper-most brace support.
(ii) The upper-most tie-in, braces, floor supports and floor wedges where the tower crane is supported by the structure, for loose or dislodged components.
(5)
Annual.
In addition to the items that must be inspected under § 1926.1412(f), all turntable and tower bolts must be inspected for proper condition and torque.
§ 1926.1436
Derricks.
(a) This section contains supplemental requirements for derricks, whether temporarily or permanently mounted; all sections of this subpart apply to derricks unless specified otherwise. A derrick is powered equipment consisting of a mast or equivalent
member that is held at or near the end by guys or braces, with or without a boom, and its hoisting mechanism. The mast/equivalent member and/or the load is moved by the hoisting mechanism (typically base-mounted) and operating ropes. Derricks include: A-frame, basket, breast, Chicago boom, gin pole (except gin poles used for erection of communication towers), guy, shearleg, stiffleg, and variations of such equipment.
(b)
Operation—procedures.
(1) Section 1926.1417 (Operation) applies except for § 1926.1417(c) (Accessibility of procedures).
(2)
Load chart contents.
Load charts must contain at least the following information:
(i) Rated capacity at corresponding ranges of boom angle or operating radii.
(ii) Specific lengths of components to which the rated capacities apply.
(iii) Required parts for hoist reeving.
(iv) Size and construction of rope must be included on the load chart or in the operating manual.
(3)
Load chart location
—(i)
Permanent installations.
For permanently installed derricks with fixed lengths of boom, guy, and mast, a load chart must be posted where it is visible to personnel responsible for the operation of the equipment.
(ii)
Non-permanent installations.
For derricks that are not permanently installed, the load chart must be readily available at the job site to personnel responsible for the operation of the equipment.
(c)
Construction
—(1)
General requirements.
(i) Derricks must be constructed to meet all stresses imposed on members and components when installed and operated in accordance with the manufacturer's/builder's procedures and within its rated capacity.
(ii) Welding of load sustaining members must conform to recommended practices in ANSI/AWS D14.3-94 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) or AWS D1.1/D1.1M:2002 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6).
(2)
Guy derricks.
(i) The minimum number of guys must be 6, with equal spacing, except where a qualified person or derrick manufacturer approves variations from these requirements and revises the rated capacity to compensate for such variations.
(ii) Guy derricks must not be used unless the employer has the following guy information from the manufacturer or a qualified person, when not available from the manufacturer:
(A) The number of guys.
(B) The spacing around the mast.
(C) The size, grade, and construction of rope to be used for each guy.
(iii) For guy derricks manufactured after December 18, 1970, in addition to the information required in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the employer must have the following guy information from the manufacturer or a qualified person, when not available from the manufacturer:
(A) The amount of initial sag or tension.
(B) The amount of tension in guy line rope at anchor.
(iv) The mast base must permit the mast to rotate freely with allowance for slight tilting of the mast caused by guy slack.
(v) The mast cap must:
(A) Permit the mast to rotate freely.
(B) Withstand tilting and cramping caused by the guy loads.
(C) Be secured to the mast to prevent disengagement during erection.
(D) Be provided with means for attaching guy ropes.
(3)
Stiffleg derricks.
(i) The mast must be supported in the vertical position by at least two stifflegs; one end of each must be connected to the top of the mast and the other end securely anchored.
(ii) The stifflegs must be capable of withstanding the loads imposed at any point of operation within the load chart range.
(iii) The mast base must:
(A) Permit the mast to rotate freely (when necessary).
(B) Permit deflection of the mast without binding.
(iv) The mast must be prevented from lifting out of its socket when the mast is in tension.
(v) The stiffleg connecting member at the top of the mast must:
(A) Permit the mast to rotate freely (when necessary).
(B) Withstand the loads imposed by the action of the stifflegs.
(C) Be secured so as to oppose separating forces.
(4)
Gin pole derricks.
(i) Guy lines must be sized and spaced so as to make the gin pole stable in both boomed and vertical positions.
Exception:
Where the size and/or spacing of guy lines do not result in the gin pole being stable in both boomed and vertical positions, the employer must ensure that the derrick is not used in an unstable position.
(ii) The base of the gin pole must permit movement of the pole (when necessary).
(iii) The gin pole must be anchored at the base against horizontal forces (when such forces are present).
(5)
Chicago boom derricks.
The fittings for stepping the boom and for attaching the topping lift must be arranged to:
(i) Permit the derrick to swing at all permitted operating radii and mounting heights between fittings.
(ii) Accommodate attachment to the upright member of the host structure.
(iii) Withstand the forces applied when configured and operated in accordance with the manufacturer's/builder's procedures and within its rated capacity.
(iv) Prevent the boom or topping lift from lifting out under tensile forces.
(d)
Anchoring and guying.
(1) Load anchoring data developed by the manufacturer or a qualified person must be used.
(2)
Guy derricks.
(i) The mast base must be anchored.
(ii) The guys must be secured to the ground or other firm anchorage.
(iii) The anchorage and guying must be designed to withstand maximum horizontal and vertical forces encountered when operating within rated capacity with the particular guy slope and spacing specified for the application.
(3)
Stiffleg derricks.
(i) The mast base and stifflegs must be anchored.
(ii) The mast base and stifflegs must be designed to withstand maximum horizontal and vertical forces encountered when operating within rated capacity with the particular stiffleg spacing and slope specified for the application.
(e)
Swingers and hoists.
(1) The boom, swinger mechanisms and hoists must be suitable for the derrick work intended and must be anchored to prevent displacement from the imposed loads.
(2)
Hoists.
(i) Base mounted drum hoists must meet the requirements in the following sections of ASME B30.7-2001 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6):
(A) Sections 7-1.1 (“Load ratings and markings”).
(B) Section 7-1.2 (“Construction”), except: 7-1.2.13 (“Operator's cab”); 7-1.2.15 (“Fire extinguishers”).
(C) Section 7-1.3 (“Installation”).
(D) Applicable terms in section 7-0.2 (“Definitions”).
(ii)
Load tests for new hoists.
The employer must ensure that new hoists are load tested to a minimum of 110% of rated capacity, but not more than 125% of rated capacity, unless otherwise recommended by the manufacturer. This requirement is met where the manufacturer has conducted this testing.
(iii)
Repaired or modified hoists.
Hoists that have had repairs, modifications or additions affecting their capacity or safe operation must be evaluated by a qualified person to determine if a load test is necessary. If it is, load testing must be conducted in accordance with paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (iv) of this section.
(iv)
Load test procedure.
Load tests required by paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) or (e)(2)(iii) of this section must be conducted as follows:
(A) The test load must be hoisted a vertical distance to assure that the load is supported by the hoist and held by the hoist brake(s).
(B) The test load must be lowered, stopped and held with the brake(s).
(C) The hoist must not be used unless a competent person determines that the test has been passed.
(f)
Operational aids.
(1) Section 1926.1416 (Operational aids) applies, except for § 1926.1416(d)(1) (Boom hoist limiting device), § 1926.1416(e)(1) (Boom angle or radius indicator), and § 1926.1416(e)(4) (Load weighing and similar devices).
(2)
Boom angle aid.
A boom angle indicator is not required but if the derrick is not equipped with a functioning one, the employer must ensure that either:
(i) The boom hoist cable must be marked with caution and stop marks. The stop marks must correspond to maximum and minimum allowable boom angles. The caution and stop marks must be in view of the operator, or a spotter who is in direct communication with the operator; or
(ii) An electronic or other device that signals the operator in time to prevent the boom from moving past its maximum and minimum angles, or automatically prevents such movement, is used.
(3)
Load weight/capacity devices.
(i) Derricks manufactured more than one year after November 8, 2010 with a maximum rated capacity over 6,000 pounds must have at least one of the following: load weighing device, load moment indicator, rated capacity indicator, or rated capacity limiter.
Temporary alternative measures:
The weight of the load must be determined from a source recognized by the industry (such as the load's manufacturer), or by a calculation method recognized by the industry (such as calculating a steel beam from measured dimensions and a known per foot weight), or by other equally reliable means. This information must be provided to the operator prior to the lift.
See
§ 1926.1417(j) for additional requirements.
(ii) A load weight/capacity device that is not working properly must be repaired no later than 30 days after the deficiency occurs.
Exception:
If the employer documents that it has ordered the necessary parts within 7 days of the occurrence of the deficiency, and the part is not received in time to complete the repair in 30 days, the repair must be completed within 7 days of receipt of the parts.
(g)
Post-assembly approval and testing—new or reinstalled derricks
—(1)
Anchorages.
(i) Anchorages, including the structure to which the derrick is attached (if applicable), must be approved by a qualified person.
(ii) If using a rock or hairpin anchorage, the qualified person must determine if any special testing of the anchorage is needed. If so, it must be tested accordingly.
(2)
Functional test.
Prior to initial use, new or reinstalled derricks must be tested by a competent person with no hook load to verify proper operation. This test must include:
(i) Lifting and lowering the hook(s) through the full range of hook travel.
(ii) Raising and lowering the boom through the full range of boom travel.
(iii) Swinging in each direction through the full range of swing.
(iv) Actuating the anti two-block and boom hoist limit devices (if provided).
(v) Actuating locking, limiting and indicating devices (if provided).
(3)
Load test.
Prior to initial use, new or reinstalled derricks must be load tested by a competent person. The test load must meet the following requirements:
(i) Test loads must be at least 100% and no more than 110% of the rated capacity, unless otherwise recommended by the manufacturer or qualified person, but in no event must the test load be less than the maximum anticipated load.
(ii) The test must consist of:
(A) Hoisting the test load a few inches and holding to verify that the load is supported by the derrick and held by the hoist brake(s).
(B) Swinging the derrick, if applicable, the full range of its swing, at the maximum allowable working radius for the test load.
(C) Booming the derrick up and down within the allowable working radius for the test load.
(D) Lowering, stopping and holding the load with the brake(s).
(iii) The derrick must not be used unless the competent person determines that the test has been passed.
(4)
Documentation.
Tests conducted under this paragraph must be documented. The document must contain the date, test results and the name of the tester. The document must be retained until the derrick is re-tested or dismantled, whichever occurs first. All such documents must be available, during the applicable document retention period, to all persons who conduct inspections in accordance with § 1926.1412.
(h)
Load testing repaired or modified derricks.
Derricks that have had repairs, modifications or additions affecting the derrick's capacity or safe operation must be evaluated by a qualified person to determine if a load test is necessary. If it is, load testing
must be conducted and documented in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Power failure procedures.
If power fails during operations, the derrick operator must safely stop operations. This must include:
(1) Setting all brakes or locking devices.
(2) Moving all clutch and other power controls to the off position.
(k)
Use of winch heads.
(1) Ropes must not be handled on a winch head without the knowledge of the operator.
(2) While a winch head is being used, the operator must be within reach of the power unit control lever.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Securing the boom.
(1) When the boom is being held in a fixed position, dogs, pawls, or other positive holding mechanisms on the boom hoist must be engaged.
(2) When taken out of service for 30 days or more, the boom must be secured by one of the following methods:
(i) Laid down.
(ii) Secured to a stationary member, as nearly under the head as possible, by attachment of a sling to the load block.
(iii) For guy derricks, lifted to a vertical position and secured to the mast.
(iv) For stiffleg derricks, secured against the stiffleg.
(n) The process of jumping the derrick must be supervised by the A/D director.
(o) Derrick operations must be supervised by a competent person.
(p)
Inspections.
In addition to the requirements in § 1926.1412, the following additional items must be included in the inspections:
(1)
Daily:
Guys for proper tension.
(2)
Annual.
(i) Gudgeon pin for cracks, wear, and distortion.
(ii) Foundation supports for continued ability to sustain the imposed loads.
(q)
Qualification and training.
The employer must train each operator of a derrick on the safe operation of equipment the individual will operate. Section 1926.1427 of this subpart (Operator qualification and certification) does not apply.
§ 1926.1437
Floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges.
(a) This section contains supplemental requirements for floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges, pontoons, vessels or other means of flotation (
i.e.,
vessel/flotation device). The sections of this subpart apply to floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges, pontoons, vessels or other means of flotation, unless specified otherwise. The requirements of this section do not apply when using jacked barges when the jacks are deployed to the river, lake, or sea bed and the barge is fully supported by the jacks.
(b)
General requirements.
The requirements in paragraphs (c) through (k) of this section apply to both floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges, pontoons, vessels or other means of flotation.
(c)
Work area control.
(1) The requirements of § 1926.1424 (Work area control) apply, except for § 1926.1424(a)(2)(ii).
(2) The employer must either:
(i) Erect and maintain control lines, warning lines, railings or similar barriers to mark the boundaries of the hazard areas; or
(ii) Clearly mark the hazard areas by a combination of warning signs (such as, “Danger—Swing/Crush Zone”) and high visibility markings on the equipment that identify the hazard areas. In addition, the employer must train each employee to understand what these markings signify.
(d)
Keeping clear of the load.
Section 1926.1425 does not apply.
(e)
Additional safety devices.
In addition to the safety devices listed in § 1926.1415, the following safety devices are required:
(1) Barge, pontoon, vessel or other means of flotation list and trim device. The safety device must be located in the cab or, when there is no cab, at the operator's station.
(2) Positive equipment house lock.
(3)
Wind speed and direction indicator.
A competent person must determine if wind is a factor that needs to be considered; if wind needs to be considered, a wind speed and direction indicator must be used.
(f)
Operational aids.
(1) An anti two-block device is required only when
hoisting personnel or hoisting over an occupied cofferdam or shaft.
(2) Section 1926.1416(e)(4) (Load weighing and similar devices) does not apply to dragline, clamshell (grapple), magnet, drop ball, container handling, concrete bucket, and pile driving work performed under this section.
(g)
Accessibility of procedures applicable to equipment operation.
If the crane/derrick has a cab, the requirements of § 1926.1417(c) apply. If the crane/derrick does not have a cab, the employer must ensure that:
(1) Rated capacities (load charts) are posted at the operator's station. If the operator's station is moveable (such as with pendant-controlled equipment), the load charts are posted on the equipment.
(2) Procedures applicable to the operation of the equipment (other than load charts), recommended operating speeds, special hazard warnings, instructions and operators manual, must be readily available on board the vessel/flotation device.
(h)
Inspections.
In addition to meeting the requirements of § 1926.1412 for inspecting the crane/derrick, the employer must inspect the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used to support a floating crane/derrick or land crane/derrick, and ensure that:
(1)
Shift.
For each shift inspection, the means used to secure/attach the equipment to the vessel/flotation device is in proper condition, including wear, corrosion, loose or missing fasteners, defective welds, and (when applicable) insufficient tension.
(2)
Monthly.
For each monthly inspection:
(i) The means used to secure/attach the equipment to the vessel/flotation device is in proper condition, including inspection for wear, corrosion, and, when applicable, insufficient tension.
(ii) The vessel/flotation device is not taking on water.
(iii) The deckload is properly secured.
(iv) The vessel/flotation device is watertight based on the condition of the chain lockers, storage, fuel compartments, and hatches.
(v) The firefighting and lifesaving equipment is in place and functional.
(3) The shift and monthly inspections are conducted by a competent person, and:
(i) If any deficiency is identified, an immediate determination is made by a qualified person whether the deficiency constitutes a hazard.
(ii) If the deficiency is determined to constitute a hazard, the vessel/flotation device is removed from service until the deficiency has been corrected.
(4)
Annual: external vessel/flotation device inspection.
For each annual inspection:
(i) The external portion of the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used is inspected annually by a qualified person who has expertise with respect to vessels/flotation devices and that the inspection includes the following items:
(A) The items identified in paragraphs (h)(1) (
Shift
) and (h)(2) (
Monthly
) of this section.
(B) Cleats, bitts, chocks, fenders, capstans, ladders, and stanchions, for significant corrosion, wear, deterioration, or deformation that could impair the function of these items.
(C) External evidence of leaks and structural damage; evidence of leaks and damage below the waterline may be determined through internal inspection of the vessel/flotation device.
(D) Four-corner draft readings.
(E) Firefighting equipment for serviceability.
(ii) Rescue skiffs, lifelines, work vests, life preservers and ring buoys are inspected for proper condition.
(iii) If any deficiency is identified, an immediate determination is made by the qualified person whether the deficiency constitutes a hazard or, though not yet a hazard, needs to be monitored in the monthly inspections.
(A) If the qualified person determines that the deficiency constitutes a hazard, the vessel/flotation device is removed from service until it has been corrected.
See
requirements in § 1926.1417(f).
(B) If the qualified person determines that, though not presently a hazard, the deficiency needs to be monitored, the deficiency is checked in the monthly inspections.
(5)
Four-year: internal vessel/flotation device inspection.
For each four-year inspection:
(i) A marine engineer, marine architect, licensed surveyor, or other qualified person who has expertise with respect to vessels/flotation devices surveys the internal portion of the barge, pontoons, vessel, or other means of flotation.
(ii) If the surveyor identifies a deficiency, an immediate determination is made by the surveyor as to whether the deficiency constitutes a hazard or, though not yet a hazard, needs to be monitored in the monthly or annual inspections, as appropriate.
(A) If the surveyor determines that the deficiency constitutes a hazard, the vessel/flotation device is removed from service until it has been corrected.
(B) If the surveyor determines that, though not presently a hazard, the deficiency needs to be monitored, the deficiency is checked in the monthly or annual inspections, as appropriate.
(6)
Documentation.
The monthly and annual inspections required in paragraphs (h)(2) and (h)(4) of this section are documented in accordance with §§ 1926.1412 (e)(3) and 1926.1412(f)(7), respectively, and that the four-year inspection required in paragraph (h)(5) of this section is documented in accordance with § 1926.1412(f)(7), except that the documentation for that inspection must be retained for a minimum of 4 years. All such documents must be made available, during the applicable document retention period, to all persons who conduct inspections in accordance with § 1926.1412.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Working with a diver.
The employer must meet the following additional requirements when working with a diver in the water:
(1) If a crane/derrick is used to get a diver into and out of the water, it must not be used for any other purpose until the diver is back on board. When used for more than one diver, it must not be used for any other purpose until all divers are back on board.
(2) The operator must remain at the controls of the crane/derrick at all times.
(3) In addition to the requirements in §§ 1926.1419 through 1926.1422 (Signals), either:
(i) A clear line of sight must be maintained between the operator and tender; or
(ii) The signals between the operator and tender must be transmitted electronically.
(4) The means used to secure the crane/derrick to the vessel/flotation device (
see
paragraph (n)(5) of this section) must not allow any amount of shifting in any direction.
(k)
Manufacturer's specifications and limitations.
(1) The employer must ensure that the barge, pontoons, vessel, or other means of flotation must be capable of withstanding imposed environmental, operational and in-transit loads when used in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and limitations.
(2) The employer must ensure that the manufacturer's specifications and limitations with respect to environmental, operational, and in-transit loads for a barge, pontoon, vessel, or other means of flotation are not exceeded or violated.
(3) When the manufacturer's specifications and limitations are unavailable, the employer must ensure that the specifications and limitations established by a qualified person with respect to environmental, operational and in-transit loads for the barge, pontoons, vessel, or other means of flotation are not exceeded or violated.
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Floating cranes/derricks.
For equipment designed by the manufacturer (or employer) for marine use by permanent attachment to barges, pontoons, vessels or other means of flotation:
(1)
Load charts.
(i) The employer must not exceed the manufacturer load charts applicable to operations on water. When using these charts, the employer must comply with all parameters and limitations (such as dynamic and environmental parameters) applicable to the use of the charts.
(ii) The employer must ensure that load charts take into consideration a minimum wind speed of 40 miles per hour.
(2) The employer must ensure that the requirements for maximum allowable list and maximum allowable trim as specified in Table M1 of this section are met.
Table M1
Rated capacity
Maximum allowable list
(degrees)
Maximum allowable trim
(degrees)
Equipment designed for marine use by permanent attachment (other than derricks):
25 tons or less
5
5
Over 25 tons
7
7
Derricks designed for marine use by permanent attachment:
Any rated capacity
10
10
(3) The employer must ensure that the equipment is stable under the conditions specified in Tables M2 and M3 of this section. (
Note
: Freeboard is the vertical distance between the water line and the main deck of the vessel.)
Table M2
Operated at
Wind speed
(mph)
Minimum freeboard
(ft)
Rated capacity
60
2
Rated capacity plus 25%
60
1
High boom, no load
60
2
Table M3
Operated at
Wind speed
For backward stability of the boom:
High boom, no load, full back list (least stable condition)
90 mph.
(4) If the equipment is employer-made, it must not be used unless the employer has documents demonstrating that the load charts and applicable parameters for use meet the requirements of paragraphs (m)(1) through (3) of this section. Such documents must be signed by a registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to the design of this type of equipment (including the means of flotation).
(5) The employer must ensure that the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used:
(i) Are structurally sufficient to withstand the static and dynamic loads of the crane/derrick when operating at the crane/derrick's maximum rated capacity with all planned and actual deck loads and ballasted compartments.
(ii) Have a subdivided hull with one or more longitudinal watertight bulkheads for reducing the free-surface effect.
(iii) Have access to void compartments to allow for inspection and pumping.
(n)
Land cranes/derricks.
For land cranes/derricks used on barges, pontoons, vessels or other means of flotation, the employer must ensure that:
(1) The rated capacity of the equipment (including but not limited to modification of load charts) applicable for use on land is reduced to:
(i) Account for increased loading from list, trim, wave action, and wind.
(ii) Be applicable to a specified location(s) on the specific barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation that will be used, under the environmental conditions expected and encountered.
(iii) The conditions required in paragraphs (n)(3) and (n)(4) of this section are met.
(2) The rated capacity modification required in paragraph (n)(1) of this section is performed by the equipment manufacturer, or a qualified person who has expertise with respect to both land crane/derrick capacity and the stability of vessels/flotation devices.
(3) For list and trim.
(i) The maximum allowable list and the maximum allowable trim for the barge, pontoon, vessel or other means of flotation must not exceed the amount necessary to ensure that the conditions in paragraph (n)(4) of this section are met. In addition, the maximum allowable list and the maximum allowable trim does not exceed the least of the following: 5 degrees, the amount specified by the crane/derrick manufacturer, or, when, an amount is not so specified, the amount specified by the qualified person.
(ii) The maximum allowable list and the maximum allowable trim for the land crane/derrick does not exceed the amount specified by the crane/derrick manufacturer, or, when, an amount is not so specified, the amount specified by the qualified person.
(4) For the following conditions:
(i) All deck surfaces of the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used are above water.
(ii) The entire bottom area of the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used is submerged.
(5) Physical attachment, corralling, rails system and centerline cable system meet the requirements in Option (1), Option (2), Option (3), or Option (4) of this section, and that whichever option is used also meets the requirements of paragraph (n)(5)(v) of this section.
(i)
Option (1)—Physical attachment.
The crane/derrick is physically attached to the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation. Methods of physical attachment include crossed-cable systems attached to the crane/derrick and vessel/flotation device, bolting or welding the crane/derrick to the vessel/flotation device, strapping the crane/derrick to the vessel/flotation device with chains, or other methods of physical attachment.
(ii)
Option (2)—Corralling.
The crane/derrick is prevented from shifting by installing barricade restraints (
i.e.,
a corralling system). Employers must ensure that corralling systems do not allow the equipment to shift by any amount of shifting in any direction.
(iii)
Option (3)—Rails.
The crane/derrick must be prevented from shifting by being mounted on a rail system. Employers must ensure that rail clamps and rail stops are used unless the system is designed to prevent movement during operation by other means.
(iv)
Option (4)—Centerline cable system.
The crane/derrick is prevented from shifting by being mounted to a wire rope system. The employer must ensure that the wire rope system meets the following requirements:
(A) The wire rope and attachments are of sufficient size and strength to support the side load of crane/derrick.
(B) The wire rope is attached physically to the vessel/flotation device.
(C) The wire rope is attached to the crane/derrick by appropriate attachment methods (such as shackles or sheaves) on the undercarriage, and that the method used will allow the crew to secure the crane/derrick from movement during operation and to move the crane/derrick longitudinally along the vessel/flotation device for repositioning.
(D) Means are installed to prevent the crane/derrick from passing the forward or aft end of the wire rope attachments.
(E) The crane/derrick is secured from movement during operation.
(v) The systems/means used to comply with Option (1), Option (2), Option (3), or Option (4) of this section are designed by a marine engineer, registered professional engineer familiar with floating crane/derrick design, or qualified person familiar with floating crane/derrick design.
(6)
Exception.
For mobile auxiliary cranes used on the deck of a floating crane/derrick, the requirement specified by paragraph (n)(5) of this section to use Option (1), Option (2), Option (3), or Option (4) does not apply when the employer demonstrates implementation of a plan and procedures that meet the following requirements:
(i) A marine engineer or registered professional engineer familiar with floating crane/derrick design develops and signs a written plan for the use of the mobile auxiliary crane.
(ii) The plan is designed so that the applicable requirements of this section are met despite the position, travel, operation, and lack of physical attachment (or corralling, use of rails or cable system) of the mobile auxiliary crane.
(iii) The plan specifies the areas of the deck where the mobile auxiliary crane is permitted to be positioned, travel, and operate, and the parameters and limitations of such movements and operation.
(iv) The deck is marked to identify the permitted areas for positioning, travel, and operation.
(v) The plan specifies the dynamic and environmental conditions that must be present for use of the plan.
(vi) If the dynamic and environmental conditions in paragraph (n)(6)(v) of this section are exceeded, the mobile auxiliary crane is attached physically or corralled in accordance with Option (1), Option (2) or Option (4) of paragraph (n)(5) of this section.
(7) The barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used:
(i) Are structurally sufficient to withstand the static and dynamic loads of the crane/derrick when operating at the crane/derrick's maximum rated capacity with all anticipated deck loads and ballasted compartments.
(ii) Have a subdivided hull with one or more longitudinal watertight bulkheads for reducing the free surface effect.
(iii) Have access to void compartments to allow for inspection and pumping.
§ 1926.1438
Overhead
gantry cranes.
(a)
Permanently installed overhead and gantry cranes.
The requirements of § 1910.179, except for § 1910.179(b)(1), and not the requirements of this subpart CC, apply to the following equipment when used in construction and permanently installed in a facility: overhead and gantry cranes, including semigantry, cantilever gantry, wall cranes, storage bridge cranes, and others having the same fundamental characteristics.
(b)
Overhead and gantry cranes that are not permanently installed in a facility.
(1) This paragraph applies to the following equipment when used in construction and not permanently installed in a facility: Overhead and gantry cranes, overhead/bridge cranes, semigantry, cantilever gantry, wall cranes, storage bridge cranes, launching gantry cranes, and similar equipment having the same fundamental characteristics, irrespective of whether it travels on tracks, wheels, or other means.
(2) The following requirements apply to equipment identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
(i) Sections 1926.1400 through 1926.1414; §§ 1926.1417 through 1926.1425; § 1926.1426(d), §§ 1926.1427 through 1926.1434; §§ 1926.1437, 1926.1439, and 1926.1441.
(ii) The following portions of § 1910.179:
(A) Paragraphs (b)(5),(6),(7); (e)(1),(3),(5),(6); (f)(1),(4); (g); (h)(1),(3); (k); and (n) of § 1910.179.
(B) The definitions in § 1910.179(a) except for “hoist” and “load.” For those words, the definitions in § 1926.1401 apply.
(C) Section 1910.179(b)(2), but only where the equipment identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (§ 1926.1438) was manufactured before September 19, 2001.
(iii) For equipment manufactured on or after September 19, 2001, the following sections of ASME B30.2-2005 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6) apply: 2-1.3.1; 2-1.3.2; 2-1.4.1; 2-1.6; 2-1.7.2; 2-1.8.2; 2-1.9.1; 2-1.9.2; 2-1.11; 2-1.12.2; 2-1.13.7; 2-1.14.2; 2-1.14.3; 2-1.14.5; 2-1.15.; 2-2.2.2; 2-3.2.1.1. In addition, 2-3.5 applies, except in 2-3.5.1(b), “29 CFR 1910.147” is substituted for “ANSI Z244.1.”
§ 1926.1439
Dedicated pile drivers.
(a) The provisions of subpart CC apply to dedicated pile drivers, except as specified in this section.
(b) Section 1926.1416(d)(3) (Anti two-blocking device) does not apply.
(c) Section 1926.1416(e)(4) (Load weighing and similar devices) applies only to dedicated pile drivers manufactured after November 8, 2011.
(d) In § 1926.1433, only §§ 1926.1433(d) and (e) apply to dedicated pile drivers.
§ 1926.1440
Sideboom cranes.
(a) The provisions of this standard apply, except § 1926.1402 (Ground conditions), § 1926.1415 (Safety devices), § 1926.1416 (Operational aids), and § 1926.1427 (Operator qualification and certification).
(b) Section 1926.1426 (Free fall and controlled load lowering) applies, except § 1926.1426(a)(2)(i). Sideboom cranes in which the boom is designed to free fall (live boom) are permitted only if manufactured prior to November 8, 2010.
(c) Sideboom cranes mounted on wheel or crawler tractors must meet all of the following requirements of ASME B30.14-2004 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 1926.6):
(1) Section 14-1.1 (“Load Ratings”).
(2) Section 14-1.3 (“Side Boom Tractor Travel”).
(3) Section 14-1.5 (“Ropes and Reeving Accessories”).
(4) Section 14-1.7.1 (“Booms”).
(5) Section 14-1.7.2 (“General Requirements—Exhaust Gases”).
(6) Section 14-1.7.3 (“General Requirements—Stabilizers (Wheel-Type Side Boom Tractors)”).
(7) Section 14-1.7.4 (“General Requirements—Welded Construction”).
(8) Section 14-1.7.6 (“General Requirements—Clutch and Brake Protection”).
(9) Section 14-2.2.2 (“Testing—Rated Load Test”), except that it applies only to equipment that has been altered or modified.
(10) In section 14-3.1.2 (“Operator Qualifications”), paragraph (a), except the phrase “When required by law.”
(11) In section 14-3.1.3 (“Operating Practices”), paragraphs (e), (f)(1)-(f)(4), (f)(6), (f)(7), (h), and (i).
(12) In section 14-3.2.3 (“Moving the Load”), paragraphs (j), (l), and (m).
§ 1926.1441
Equipment with a rated hoisting/lifting capacity of 2,000 pounds or less.
The following paragraphs of this section specify requirements for employers using equipment with a maximum rated hoisting/lifting capacity of 2,000 pounds or less.
(a) The employer using this equipment must comply with the following provisions of this subpart: § 1926.1400 (Scope); § 1926.1401 (Definitions); § 1926.1402 (Ground conditions); § 1926.1403 (Assembly/disassembly—selection of manufacturer or employer procedures); § 1926.1406 (Assembly/disassembly—employer procedures); §§ 1926.1407 through 1926.1411 (Power line safety); § 1926.1412(c) (
Post-assembly
); §§ 1926.1413 through 1926.1414 (Wire rope); § 1926.1418 (Authority to stop operation); §§ 1926.1419 through 1926.1422 (Signals); § 1926.1423 (Fall protection); § 1926.1425 (Keeping clear of the load) (except for § 1926.1425(c)(3) (qualified rigger)); § 1926.1426 (Free fall and controlled load lowering); § 1926.1432 (Multiple crane/derrick lifts—supplemental requirements); § 1926.1434 (Equipment modifications); § 1926.1435 (Tower cranes); § 1926.1436 (Derricks); § 1926.1437 (Floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges); § 1926.1438 (Overhead
gantry cranes).
(b)
Assembly/disassembly.
(1) In addition to compliance with §§ 1926.1403 (Assembly/disassembly—selection of manufacturer or employer procedures) and 1926.1406 (Assembly/disassembly—employer procedures), the employer must also comply with § 1926.1441(b)(2)-(3).
(2)
Components and configuration.
The employer must ensure that:
(i) The selection of components, and the configuration of the equipment, that affect the capacity or safe operation of the equipment complies with either the:
(A) Manufacturer instructions, recommendations, limitations, and specifications. When these documents and information are unavailable, a registered professional engineer familiar with the type of equipment involved must approve, in writing, the selection and configuration of components; or
(B) Approved modifications that meet the requirements of § 1926.1434 (Equipment modifications).
(ii)
Post-assembly inspection.
Upon completion of assembly, the equipment is inspected to ensure that it is in compliance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section (
see
§ 1926.1412(c) for post-assembly inspection requirements).
(3)
Manufacturer prohibitions.
The employer must comply with applicable manufacturer prohibitions.
(c)
Operation—procedures.
(1) The employer must comply with all manufacturer procedures applicable to the operational functions of the equipment, including its use with attachments.
(2)
Unavailable operation procedures.
The employer must:
(i) When the manufacturer's procedures are unavailable, develop, and ensure compliance with, all procedures necessary for the safe operation of the equipment and attachments.
(ii) Ensure that procedures for the operational controls are developed by a qualified person.
(iii) Ensure that procedures related to the capacity of the equipment are developed and signed by a registered professional engineer familiar with the equipment.
(3)
Accessibility.
The employer must ensure that:
(i) The load chart is available to the operator at the control station;
(ii) Procedures applicable to the operation of the equipment, recommended operating speeds, special
hazard warnings, instructions, and operator's manual are readily available for use by the operator.
(iii) When rated capacities are available at the control station only in electronic form and a failure occurs that makes the rated capacities inaccessible, the operator immediately ceases operations or follows safe shut-down procedures until the rated capacities (in electronic or other form) are available.
(d)
Safety devices and operational aids.
(1) The employer must ensure that safety devices and operational aids that are part of the original equipment are maintained in accordance with manufacturer procedures.
(2)
Anti two-blocking.
The employer must ensure that equipment covered by this section manufactured more than one year after November 8, 2010 have either an anti two-block device that meets the requirements of § 1926.1416(d)(3), or is designed so that, in the event of a two-block situation, no damage or load failure will occur (for example, by using a power unit that stalls in response to a two-block situation).
(e)
Operator qualifications.
The employer must train each operator, prior to operating the equipment, on the safe operation of the type of equipment the operator will be using.
(f)
Signal person qualifications.
The employer must train each signal person in the proper use of signals applicable to the use of the equipment.
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Inspections.
The employer must ensure that equipment is inspected in accordance with manufacturer procedures.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Hoisting personnel.
The employer must ensure that equipment covered by this section is not used to hoist personnel.
(k)
Design.
The employer must ensure that the equipment is designed by a qualified engineer.
§ 1926.1442
Railroad roadway maintenance machines.
(a)
General rule.
Employers using equipment covered by this subpart that meets the definition of “roadway maintenance machine,” as defined in 49 CFR 214.7, must comply with the requirements in this subpart, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section when subject to the authority of the Federal Railroad Administration.
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
Operator certification, training, and evaluation.
The requirements in §§ 1926.1427 (Operator qualification and certification) and 1926.1430 (Training) do not apply. The qualification and training requirements contained in §§ 1926.1436(q) (Qualification and training for derricks), 1926.1440(a) (Sideboom cranes), and 1926.1441(a) (Equipment with a rated hoisting/lifting capacity of 2,000 pounds or less) do not apply.
(2)
Rail clamps, rail stops, and work-area controls.
(i) The requirement for rail clamps in § 1926.1415(a)(6) does not apply;
(ii) The requirement for rail stops in § 1926.1415(a)(6) does not apply; and
(iii) The work-area controls specified by § 1926.1424(a)(2) do not apply.
(3)
Out-of-level work.
The restrictions on out-of-level work, and the requirements for crane-level indicators and inspections of those indicators (including the requirements in §§ 1926.1402(b), 1926.1412(d)(1)(xi), and 1926.1415(a)(1)), do not apply.
(4)
Dragging a load sideways.
The prohibition in § 1926.1417(q) on dragging a load sideways does not apply.
(5)
Boom-hoist limiting device.
The requirement in § 1926.1416(d)(1) for a boom-hoist limiting device does not apply to roadway maintenance machines when the cranes use hydraulic cylinders to raise the booms.
(6)
Manufacturer guidance for modifications covered by § 1926.1434.
The requirements to follow the manufacturer's guidance set forth in § 1926.1434 do not apply if the employer is subject to the requirements of 49 CFR part 214.
(7)
Other manufacturer guidance.
The requirements to follow the manufacturer's guidance, instructions, procedures, prohibitions, limitations, or specifications, set forth in § 1926.1404(j), (m), or (q); § 1926.1415(a)(6); § 1926.1417(a), (r), (u), or (aa); § 1926.1433(d)(1)(i); or § 1926.1441 do not apply if the employer is subject to the requirements of 49 CFR part 214.
[85 FR 57122, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 1926.1443
Severability.
Should a court of competent jurisdiction hold any provision(s) of subpart CC to be invalid, such action shall not affect any other provision of the subpart.
[75 FR 48135, Aug. 9, 2010. Redesignated at 85 FR 57122, Sept. 15, 2020]
Pt. 1926, Subpt. CC, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart CC of Part 1926—Standard Hand Signals
ER09AU10.003
ER09AU10.004
Pt. 1926, Subpt. CC, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart CC of Part 1926—Assembly/Disassembly: Sample Procedures for Minimizing the Risk of Unintended Dangerous Boom Movement
1. Section 1926.1404(f)(1) provides that when pins (or similar devices) are being removed, employees must not be under the boom, jib, or other components, except where the requirements of § 1926.1404(f)(2) are met. The exception in § 1926.1404(f)(2) applies when the employer demonstrates that site constraints require one or more employees to be under the boom, jib, or other components when pins (or similar devices) are being removed. In such a situation, the A/D director must implement procedures that minimize the risk of unintended dangerous movement and minimize the duration and extent of exposure under the boom.
The following scenario is an example of how the exception applies: A boom cannot be disassembled on the ground because of aboveground piping (as might be found, for example, in an oil refinery) that precludes lowering the boom to the ground. The boom must therefore be disassembled in the air, and the employees who remove the pins must perform that work from an aerial lift whose base is positioned on one side (the near side) of the boom. To gain access to the pins on the far side, the aerial lift basket must move under the boom, since, due to lack of room,
the aerial lift cannot be repositioned on the far side. Due to lack of room, the aerial lift cannot be repositioned on the far side, so the aerial basket must move under the boom to gain access to the pins on the far side.
To minimize the risk of unintended dangerous movement while the pins are removed, the A/D director uses an assist crane that is rigged to support the boom section that is being detached, using particular care to ensure that the section end that is near the employee(s) removing the pins is well supported. The duration and extent of exposure is minimized by removing the far side pins first, moving the aerial lift basket as soon as possible to the near side so that the employees are no longer under the boom, and then removing the near side pins.
2. Section 1926.1404(h)(6)(i) provides that, during assembly/disassembly, the center of gravity of the load must be identified if that is necessary for the method used for maintaining stability. Section 1926.1404(h)(6)(ii) states that, where there is insufficient information to accurately identify the center of gravity, measures designed to prevent unintended dangerous movement resulting from an inaccurate identification of the center of gravity must be used.
An example of the application of § 1926.1404(h)(6)(ii) is as follows: The boom is assembled by lowering boom sections sequentially into place using an assist crane. The A/D director's plan is to keep the boom sections stable while they are lowered into place by attaching the assist crane hoist line above the center of gravity of each section. However, in assembling the non-symmetrical top section of the boom, the A/D director is not able to determine where to attach the assist crane hoist line so that it is above the center of gravity. In this situation, before raising the section, all personnel are kept clear of the section and the section is first raised a few inches to determine whether it tips when raised (if it did tip, it would indicate it is not rigged over the center of gravity). If this occurs, the hoist line is repositioned and the procedure repeated (with employees kept clear of the section while it is raised) until the A/D director determines that it is rigged over the center of gravity and can be moved into place without dangerous movement.
Pt. 1926, Subpt. CC, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart CC of Part 1926—Operator Certification: Written Examination: Technical Knowledge Criteria
This appendix contains information for employers, accredited testing organizations, auditors and government entities developing criteria for a written examination to test an individual's technical knowledge relating to the operation of cranes.
(a) General technical information.
(1) The functions and limitations of the crane and attachments.
(2) Wire rope:
(i) Background information necessary to understand the inspection and removal from service criteria in § 1926.1413 and § 1926.1414.
(ii) Capacity and when multi-part rope is needed.
(iii) Relationship between line pull and safe working load.
(iv) How to determine the manufacturer's recommended rope for the crane.
(3) Rigging devices and their use, such as:
(i) Slings.
(ii) Spreaders.
(iii) Lifting beams.
(iv) Wire rope fittings, such as clips, shackles and wedge sockets.
(v) Saddles (softeners).
(vi) Clamps (beams).
(4) The technical limitations of protective measures against electrical hazards:
(i) Grounding.
(ii) Proximity warning devices.
(iii) Insulated links.
(iv) Boom cages.
(v) Proximity to electric power lines, radii, and microwave structures.
(5) The effects of load share and load transfer in multi-crane lifts.
(6) Basic crane terms.
(7) The basics of machine power flow systems.
(i) Mechanical.
(ii) Electrical.
(iii) Pneumatic.
(iv) Hydraulic.
(v) Combination.
(8) The significance of the instruments and gauge readings.
(9) The effects of thermal expansion and contraction in hydraulic cylinders.
(10) Background information necessary to understand the requirements of pre-operation and inspection.
(11) How to use the safety devices and operational aids required under § 1926.1415 and § 1926.1416.
(12) The difference between duty-cycle and lifting operations.
(13) How to calculate net capacity for every possible configuration of the equipment using the manufacturer's load chart.
(14) How to use manufacturer-approved attachments and their effect on the equipment.
(15) How to obtain dimensions, weight, and center of gravity of the load.
(16) The effects of dynamic loading from:
(i) Wind.
(ii) Stopping and starting.
(iii) Impact loading.
(iv) Moving with the load.
(17) The effect of side loading.
(18) The principles of backward stability.
(b) Site information.
(1) How to identify the suitability of the supporting ground/surface to support the expected loads of the operation. Elements include:
(i) Weaknesses below the surface (such as voids, tanks, loose fill).
(ii) Weaknesses on the surface (such as retaining walls, slopes, excavations, depressions).
(2) Proper use of mats, blocking/cribbing, outriggers, stabilizers, or crawlers.
(3) Identification of site hazards such as power lines, piping, and traffic.
(4) How to review operation plans with supervisors and other workers (such as the signal person), including how to determine working height, boom length, load radius, and travel clearance.
(5) How to determine if there is adequate room for extension of crawlers or outriggers/stabilizers and counterweights.
(c) Operations.
(1) How to pick, carry, swing and place the load smoothly and safely on rubber tires and on outriggers/stabilizers or crawlers (where applicable).
(2) How to communicate at the site with supervisors, the crew and the signal person.
(3) Proper procedures and methods of reeving wire ropes and methods of reeving multiple-part lines and selecting the proper load block and/or ball.
(4) How to react to changes in conditions that affect the safe operation of the equipment.
(5) How to shut down and secure the equipment properly when leaving it unattended.
(6) Know how to apply the manufacturer's specifications for operating in various weather conditions, and understand how environmental conditions affect the safe operation of the equipment.
(7) How to properly level the equipment.
(8) How to verify the weight of the load and rigging prior to initiating the lift.
(9) How to determine where the load is to be picked up and placed and how to verify the radii.
(10) Know basic rigging procedures.
(11) How to carry out the shift inspection required in this subpart.
(12) Know that the following operations require specific procedures and skill levels:
(i) Multi-crane lifts.
(ii) Hoisting personnel.
(iii) Clamshell/dragline operations.
(iv) Pile driving and extracting.
(v) Concrete operations, including poured-in-place and tilt-up.
(vi) Demolition operations.
(vii) Operations on water.
(viii) Magnet operations.
(ix) Multi-drum operations.
(13) Know the proper procedures for operating safely under the following conditions:
(i) Traveling with suspended loads.
(ii) Approaching a two-block condition.
(iii) Operating near power lines.
(iv) Hoisting personnel.
(v) Using other than full outrigger/crawler or stabilizer extensions.
(vi) Lifting loads from beneath the surface of the water.
(vii) Using various approved counterweight configurations.
(viii) Handling loads out of the operator's vision (“operating in the blind”).
(ix) Using electronic communication systems for signal communication.
(14) Know the proper procedures for load control and the use of hand-held tag lines.
(15) Know the emergency response procedure for:
(i) Fires.
(ii) Power line contact.
(iii) Loss of stability.
(iv) Control malfunction.
(v) Two-blocking.
(vi) Overload.
(vii) Carrier or travel malfunction.
(16) Know how to properly use outriggers and stabilizers in accordance with manufacturer specifications.
(d) Use of load charts.
(1) Know the terminology necessary to use load charts.
(2) Know how to ensure that the load chart is the appropriate chart for the equipment in its particular configuration and application.
(3) Know how to use load charts. This includes knowing:
(i) The operational limitations of load charts and footnotes.
(ii) How to relate the chart to the configuration of the crane, crawlers, or outriggers/stabilizers extended or retracted, jib erected or offset, and various counterweight configurations.
(iii) The difference between structural capacity and capacity limited by stability.
(iv) What is included in capacity ratings.
(v) The range diagram and its relationship to the load chart.
(vi) The work area chart and its relationship to the load chart.
(vii) Where to find and how to use the “parts-of-line” information.
(4) Know how to use the load chart together with the load indicators and/or load moment devices.
Pt. 1926, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1926—Designations for General Industry Standards Incorporated Into Body of Construction Standards

# New Designations for General Industry Standards Incorporated Into Body of Construction Standards
1926 Designations for Applicable 1910 Standards
New § no. and/or para.
Source § no. and/or para.
1926.20 (c)
1910.5 (a)
[Do.] (d)
[Do.] (c)
[Do.] (e)
[Do.] (d)
1926.32(g)
1910.12(b)
1926.33
1910.20
1926.34 (a)
1910.36(b)(4)
[Do.] (b)
1910.37 (q)(1)
[Do.] (c)
[Do.] (k)(2)
1926.35
1910.38(a)
1926.50(g)
1910.151(c)
1926.51(a)(6)
1910.141(a)(2)(v)
[Do.] (d)(2)
[Do.] (h)
[Do.] (f) (2)-(4)
[Do.] (d) (1)-(3)
[Do.] (g)
[Do.] (g)(2)
[Do.] (h)
[Do.] (a)(5)
[Do.] (i)
[Do.] (e)
1926.53 (c)-(r)
1910.96
1926.57 (f)-(i)
1910.94
1926.64
1910.119
1926.65
1910.120
1926.66 (a)
1910.107 (a)
[Do.] (b)
[Do.] (b) (1)-(10)
[Do.] (c)-(d)
[Do.] (c)-(d)
[Do.] (e)-(g)
[Do.] (h)-(j)
1926.95
1910.132
1926.96
1910.136
1926.97 (a)-(e)
1910.156(e)
[Do.] (f)-(h)
[Do.] Subpt. L App. E
1926.98
1910.156(f)
1926.102(a) (6)
1910.133(a) (2)
[Do.] (7)
[Do.] (4)
[Do.] (8)
[Do.] (5)
1926.103 (d)
1910.134 (a)
[Do.] (e)
[Do.] (b)
[Do.] (f)-(i)
[Do.] (d)-(g)
1926.150(c)(1) (xi)
1910.157 (g)(1)
[Do.] (xii)
[Do.] (g)(2)
[Do.] (xiii)
[Do.] (c)(4)
[Do.] (xiv)
[Do.] (e)(3)
1926.152 (b)(5)
1910.107(e)(2)
[Do.] (h)
1910.106(j)
[Do.] (i)
[Do.] (b)
[Do.] (j)
[Do.] (c)
[Do.] (k) (1)-(3)
[Do.] (g)(4)
[Do.] (k)(4)
[Do.] (a)(22)
1926.153(a) (3)
1910.110(a)(4)
[Do.] (m) (1)
[Do.] (d)(1)
[Do.] (2)
[Do.] (d)(2)
[Do.] (3)
[Do.] (d)(7)(vii)
[Do.] (4)
[Do.] (d)(7)(viii)
[Do.] (n)
[Do.] (b)(5)(iii)
[Do.] (o)
[Do.] (d)(10)
1926.156
1910.160
1926.157
1910.162
1926.158
1910.164
1926.159
1910.165
1926.200(c)(3)
1910.145(d)(4)
1926.250(c)
1910.176(c)
[Do.] (d) (1)-(4)
1910.30(a) (1), (2), (4) and (5)
1926.251(a)(5)
1910.184(a)
[Do.] (a)(6)
[Do.] (d)
[Do.] (b)(6)(i)-(ii)
[Do.] (e)(3)(i)-(ii)
[Do.] (c)(6)-(7)
[Do.] (c) (2)-(3)
[Do.] (c)(8)
[Do.] (c)(5)
[Do.] (c)(9)
[Do.] (c)(7)
[Do.] (c)(10)-(12)
[Do.] (c)(10)-(12)
[Do.] (c)(13)-(15)
[Do.](f) (2)-(4)
[Do.] (d)(3)-(6)
[Do.] (h) (2)-(5)
[Do.] (e)(3)-(5)
[Do.] (i) (2)-(4)
[Do.] (e)(6)-(7)
[Do.] (i) (6)-(7)
[Do.] (e)(8)
[Do.] (i)(9)
1926.300(b) (3)
1910.212(a)(1)
[Do.] (4)
[Do.] (a)(3)
[Do.] (5)
[Do.] (a)(5)
[Do.] (6)
[Do.] (b)
[Do.] (7)
1910.215(b)(9)
[Do.] (8) and (9)
[Do.] (b) (3) and (4)
1926.302(b)(10)
1910.244(b)
1926.303(b)(2)
1910.215(a) (2)
[Do.] (e)
[Do.] (4)
1926.304 (g)
1910.213(h)(1)
[Do.] (h)
[Do.] (d)(1)
[Do.] (i)
[Do.] (c)(1)
1926.305(d)(1)
1910.244(a)(2) (iii)-(viii)
1926.306
1910.169
1926.307
1910.219
1926.350(a) (10)
1910.253(b) (4)(iii)
[Do.] (11)
[Do.] (2)(ii)
[Do.] (12)
1910.101(b)
1926.353(b)(3)
1910.252(b)(4)(iv)
1926.416 (a)(4)
1910.333(c)(2)
[Do.] (f) (1)
[Do.] (c)(10)
[Do.] (2)
1910.334(a)(1)
[Do.] (3)
[Do.] (a)(2)(iii)
[Do.] (4)
[Do.] (a)(5)
[Do.] (5)-(6)
[Do.] (b) (1)-(2)
[Do.] (7)-(9)
[Do.] (c) (1)-(3)
[Do.] (10)
[Do.] (d)
1926.417(d)
1910.333(b)(2)
1926.451(a) (22)
1910.28(a) (15)
[Do.] (23)
[Do.] (18)
[Do.] (24)
[Do.] (20)
1926.453 (a)
1910.29(a)
[Do.] (b)
[Do.] (c)
1926.600(a)(7)
1910.176(f)
1926.602(c)(1) (vii)
1910.178(m) (3)
[Do.] (viii)
[Do.] (12)
1926.900 (s)
1910.109 (g)(2)(ii)
[Do.] (t)
[Do.] (h)(3)(ii)
1926.905(u)
[Do.] (e)(3)(iii)
1926.914(aa)
[Do.] (a)(12)
1926.1050(b)
1910.21(g)(9)
1926.1071
1910.401
1926.1072
1910.402
1926.1076
1910.410
1926.1080
1910.420
1926.1081
1910.421
1926.1082
1910.422
1926.1083
1910.423
1926.1084
1910.424
1926.1085
1910.425
1926.1086
1910.426
1926.1087
1910.427
1926.1090
1910.430
1926.1091
1910.440
1926.1092
1910.441
1926.1102
1910.1002
1926.1103
1910.1003
1926.1104
1910.1004
1926.1105
1910.1005
1926.1106
1910.1006
1926.1107
1910.1007
1926.1108
1910.1008
1926.1109
1910.1009
1926.1110
1910.1010
1926.1111
1910.1011
1926.1112
1910.1012
1926.1113
1910.1013
1926.1114
1910.1014
1926.1115
1910.1015
1926.1116
1910.1016
1926.1117
1910.1017
1926.1118
1910.1018
1926.1128
1910.1028
1926.1129
1910.1029
1926.1144
1910.1044
1926.1145
1910.1045
1926.1147
1910.1047
1926.1148
1910.1048
[58 FR 35305, June 30, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 9255, Mar. 7, 1996; 75 FR 48135, Aug. 9, 2010]
PART 1927 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1928

# PART 1928—OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR AGRICULTURE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1928.1
Purpose and scope.

# Subpart B—Applicability of Standards
1928.21
Applicable standards in 29 CFR part 1910.

# Subpart C—Roll-Over Protective Structures
1928.51
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) for tractors, used in agricultural operations.
1928.52
Protective frames for wheel-type agricultural tractors—test procedures and performance requirements.
1928.53
Protective enclosures for wheel-type agricultural tractors—test procedures and performance requirements.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 1928—Employee Operating Instructions
Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1928—Figures C-1 through C-16

# Subpart D—Safety for Agricultural Equipment
1928.57
Guarding of farm field equipment, farmstead equipment, and cotton gins.
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—General Environmental Controls
1928.110
Field sanitation.
Subparts J-L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Occupational Health
1928.1027
Cadmium.

# Authority:
Sections 4, 6, and 8 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 653, 655, 657); Secretary of Labor's Order No. 12-71 (36 FR 8754), 8-76 (41 FR 25059), 9-83 (48 FR 35736), 1-90 (55 FR 9033), 6-96 (62 FR 111), 3-2000 (65 FR 50017), 5-2002 (67 FR 65008), 4-2010 (75 FR 55355), or 8-2020 (85 FR 58393), as applicable; and 29 CFR 1911.
Section 1928.21 also issued under 49 U.S.C. 1801-1819 and 5 U.S.C. 553.

# Source:
40 FR 18257, Apr. 25, 1975, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1928.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains occupational safety and health standards applicable to agricultural operations.

# Subpart B—Applicability of Standards
§ 1928.21
Applicable standards in 29 CFR part 1910.
(a) The following standards in part 1910 of this chapter shall apply to agricultural operations:
(1) Temporary labor camps—§ 1910.142;
(2) Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia—§ 1910.111 (a) and (b);
(3) Logging operations—§ 1910.266;
(4) Slow-moving vehicles—§ 1910.145;
(5) Hazard communication—§ 1910.1200;
(6) Cadmium—§ 1910.1027.
(7) Retention of DOT markings, placards and labels—§ 1910.1201.
(8) COVID-19—§ 1910.501, but only with respect to—
(i) Agricultural establishments where eleven (11) or more employees are engaged on any given day in hand-labor operations in the field; and
(ii) Agricultural establishments that maintain a temporary labor camp, regardless of how many employees are engaged on any given day in hand-labor operations in the field.
(b) Except to the extent specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the standards contained in subparts B through T and subpart Z of part 1910 of this title do not apply to agricultural operations.
(Section 1928.21 contains a collection of information which has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 1218-0072)
[40 FR 18257, Apr. 25, 1975, as amended at 42 FR 38569, July 29, 1977; 52 FR 31886, Aug. 24, 1987; 59 FR 36700, July 19, 1994; 59 FR 51748, Oct. 12, 1994; 61 FR 5510, Feb. 13, 1996; 61 FR 9255, Mar. 7, 1996; 86 FR 61555, Nov. 5, 2021]

# Subpart C—Roll-Over Protective Structures
§ 1928.51
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS) for tractors used in agricultural operations.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this subpart—
Agricultural tractor
means a two-or four-wheel drive type vehicle, or track vehicle, of more than 20 engine horsepower, designed to furnish the power to pull, carry, propel, or drive implements that are designed for agriculture. All self-propelled implements are excluded.
Low profile tractor
means a wheeled tractor possessing the following characteristics:
(1) The front wheel spacing is equal to the rear wheel spacing, as measured from the centerline of each right wheel to the centerline of the corresponding left wheel.
(2) The clearance from the bottom of the tractor chassis to the ground does not exceed 18 inches.
(3) The highest point of the hood does not exceed 60 inches, and
(4) The tractor is designed so that the operator straddles the transmission when seated.
Tractor weight
includes the protective frame or enclosure, all fuels, and other components required for normal use of the tractor. Ballast shall be added as necessary to achieve a minimum total weight of 110 lb. (50.0 kg.) per maximum power take-off horsepower at the rated engine speed or the maximum gross vehicle weight specified by the manufacturer, whichever is the greatest. Front end weight shall be at least 25 percent of the tractor test weight. In case power take-off horsepower is not available, 95 percent of net engine flywheel horsepower shall be used.
(b)
General requirements.
Agricultural tractors manufactured after October 25, 1976, shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS).
ROPS shall be provided by the employer for each tractor operated by an employee. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, a ROPS used on wheel-type tractors shall meet the test and performance requirements of 29 CFR 1928.52, 1928.53, or 1926.1002 as appropriate. A ROPS used on track-type tractors shall meet the test and performance requirements of 29 CFR 1926.1001.
(2)
Seatbelts.
(i) Where ROPS are required by this section, the employer shall:
(A) Provide each tractor with a seatbelt which meets the requirements of this paragraph;
(B) Ensure that each employee uses such seatbelt while the tractor is moving; and
(C) Ensure that each employee tightens the seatbelt sufficiently to confine the employee to the protected area provided by the ROPS.
(ii) Each seatbelt shall meet the requirements set forth in Society of Automotive Engineers Standard SAE
J4C, 1965 Motor Vehicle Seat Belt Assemblies,
2
except as noted hereafter:
2
Copies may be obtained from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096.
(A) Where a suspended seat is used, the seatbelt shall be fastened to the movable portion of the seat to accommodate a ride motion of the operator.
(B) The seatbelt anchorage shall be capable of withstanding a static tensile load of 1,000 pounds (453.6 kg) at 45 degrees to the horizontal equally divided between the anchorages. The seat mounting shall be capable of withstanding this load plus a load equal to four times the weight of all applicable seat components applied at 45 degrees to the horizontal in a forward and upward direction. In addition, the seat mounting shall be capable of withstanding a 500 pound (226.8 kg) belt load plus two times the weight of all applicable seat components both applied at 45 degrees to the horizontal in and upward and rearward direction. Floor and seat deformation is acceptable provided there is not structural failure or release of the seat adjusted mechanism or other locking device.
(C) The seatbelt webbing material shall have a resistance to acids, alkalies, mildew, aging, moisture, and sunlight equal to or better than that of untreated polyester fiber.
(3)
Protection from spillage.
Batteries, fuel tanks, oil reservoirs, and coolant systems shall be constructed and located or sealed to assure that spillage will not occur which may come in contact with the operator in the event of an upset.
(4)
Protection from sharp surfaces.
All sharp edges and corners at the operator's station shall be designed to minimize operator injury in the event of an upset.
(5)
Exempted uses.
Paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section do not apply to the following uses:
(i)
Low profile
tractors while they are used in orchards, vineyards or hop yards where the vertical clearance requirements would substantially interfere with normal operations, and while their use is incidental to the work performed therein.
(ii)
Low profile
tractors while used inside a farm building or greenhouse in which the vertical clearance is insufficient to allow a ROPS equipped tractor to operate, and while their use is incidental to the work performed therein.
(iii) Tractors while used with mounted equipment which is incompatible with ROPS (e.g. cornpickers, cotton strippers, vegetable pickers and fruit harvesters).
(6)
Remounting.
Where ROPS are removed for any reason, they shall be remounted so as to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(c)
Labeling.
Each ROPS shall have a label, permanently affixed to the structure, which states:
(1) Manufacturer's or fabricator's name and address;
(2) ROPS model number, if any;
(3) Tractor makes, models, or series numbers that the structure is designed to fit; and
(4) That the ROPS model was tested in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.
(d)
Operating instructions.
Every employee who operates an agricultural tractor shall be informed of the operating practices contained in appendix A of this part and of any other practices dictated by the work environment. Such information shall be provided at the time of initial assignment and at least annually thereafter.
[40 FR 18257, Apr. 25, 1975, as amended at 61 FR 9255, Mar. 7, 1996; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 70 FR 77003, Dec. 29, 2005]
§ 1928.52
Protective frames for wheel-type agricultural tractors—test procedures and performance requirements.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to establish the test and performance requirements for a protective frame designed for wheel-type agricultural tractors to minimize the frequency and severity of operator injury resulting from accidental upsets. General requirements for the protection of operators are specified in 29 CFR 1928.51.
(b)
Types of tests.
All protective frames for wheel-type agricultural tractors shall be of a model that has been tested as follows:
(1)
Laboratory test.
A laboratory energy-absorption test, either static or dynamic, under repeatable and controlled loading, to permit analysis of the protective frame for compliance with the performance requirements of this standard.
(2)
Field-upset test.
A field-upset test under controlled conditions, both to the side and rear, to verify the effectiveness of the protective system under actual dynamic conditions. Such testing may be omitted when:
(i) The analysis of the protective-frame static-energy absorption test results indicates that both
FER
is
and
FER
ir
(as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section) exceed 1.15; or
(ii) The analysis of the protective-frame dynamic-energy absorption test results indicates that the frame can withstand an impact of 15 percent greater than the impact it is required to withstand for the tractor weight as shown in Figure C-7.
(c)
Descriptions
—(1)
Protective frame.
A protective frame is a structure comprised of uprights mounted to the tractor, extending above the operator's seat. A typical two-post frame is shown in Figure C-1.
(2)
Overhead weather shield.
When an overhead weather shield is available for attachment to the protective frame, it may be in place during tests provided it does not contribute to the strength of the protective frame.
(3)
Overhead falling object protection.
When an overhead falling-object protection device is available for attachment to the protective frame, it may be in place during tests provided it does not contribute to the strength of the protective frame.
(d)
Test procedures
—(1)
General.
(i) The tractor weight used shall be that of the heaviest tractor model on which the protective frame is to be used.
(ii) Each test required under this section shall be performed on a new protective frame. Mounting connections of the same design shall be used during each such test.
(iii) Instantaneous deflection shall be measured and recorded for each segment of the test; see paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section for permissible deflections.
(iv) The seat-reference point (“
SRP
”) in Figure C-3 is that point where the vertical line that is tangent to the most forward point at the longitudinal seat centerline of the seat back, and the horizontal line that is tangent to the highest point of the seat cushion, intersect in the longitudinal seat section. The seat-reference point shall be determined with the seat unloaded and adjusted to the highest and most rearward position provided for seated operation of the tractor.
(v) When the centerline of the seat is off the longitudinal center, the frame loading shall be on the side with the least space between the centerline of seat and the protective frame.
(vi) Low-temperature characteristics of the protective frame or its material shall be demonstrated as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(vii) Rear input energy tests (static, dynamic, or field-upset) need not be performed on frames mounted to tractors having four driven wheels and more than one-half their unballasted weight on the front wheels.
(viii) Accuracy table:
Measurements
Accuracy
Deflection of the frame, in. (mm)
±5 percent of the deflection measured.
Vertical weight, lb (kg)
±5 percent of the weight measured.
Force applied to the frame, pounds force (newtons)
±5 percent of the force measured.
Dimensions of the critical zone, in. (mm)
±0.5 in. (12.5 mm).
(2)
Static test procedure.
(i) The following test conditions shall be met:
(A) The laboratory mounting base shall be the tractor chassis for which the protective frame is designed, or its equivalent;
(B) The protective frame shall be instrumented with the necessary equipment to obtain the required load-deflection data at the locations and directions specified in Figures C-2 and C-3; and
(C) When the protective frame is of a one- or two-upright design, mounting connections shall be instrumented with the necessary equipment to record the required force to be used in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(E) and (J) of this section. Instrumentation shall be placed on mounting connections before installation load is applied.
(ii) The following definitions shall apply:
W
= Tractor weight (see 29 CFR 1928.51(a)) in lb (
W′
in kg);
E
is
= Energy input to be absorbed during side loading in ft-lb (
E′
is
in J [joules]);
E
is
= 723 + 0.4
W
(
E′
is
= 100 + 0.12
W′
);
E
ir
= Energy input to be absorbed during rear loading in ft-lb (
E′
ir
in J);
E
ir
= 0.47
W
(
E′
ir
= 0.14
W′
);
L
= Static load, lbf [pounds force], (N) [newtons];
D
= Deflection under
L
, in. (mm);
L-D
= Static load-deflection diagram;
L
max
= Maximum observed static load;
Load Limit
= Point on a continuous
L-D
curve where the observed static load is 0.8
L
max
on the down slope of the curve (see Figure C-5);
E
u
= Strain energy absorbed by the frame in ft-lb (J); area under the
L-D
curve;
FER
= Factor of energy ratio;
FER
is
=
E
u
E
is
;
FER
ir
=
E
u
E
ir
;
P
b
= Maximum observed force in mounting connection under a static load,
L
lbf (N);
P
u
= Ultimate force capacity of a mounting connection, lbf (N);
FSB
= Design margin for a mounting connection; and
FSB
=
P
u
/P
b
(iii) The test procedures shall be as follows:
(A) Apply the rear load according to Figure C-3, and record
L
and
D
simultaneously. Rear-load application shall be distributed uniformly on the frame over an area perpendicular to the direction of load application, no greater than 160 sq. in. (1,032 sq. cm) in size, with the largest dimension no greater than 27 in. (686 mm). The load shall be applied to the upper extremity of the frame at the point that is midway between the center of the frame and the inside of the frame upright. When no structural cross member exists at the rear of the frame, a substitute test beam that does not add strength to the frame may be used to complete this test procedure. The test shall be stopped when:
(
1
) The strain energy absorbed by the frame is equal to or greater than the required input energy E
ir
; or
(
2
) Deflection of the frame exceeds the allowable deflection (see paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section); or
(
3
) Frame load limit occurs before the allowable deflection is reached in rear load (see Figure C-5).
(B) Using data obtained under paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, construct the
L-D
diagram shown in Figure C-5;
(C) Calculate
E
ir
;
(D) Calculate
FER
ir
;
(E) Calculate
FSB
as required by paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C) of this section;
(F) Apply the side-load tests on the same frame, and record
L
and
D
simultaneously. Side-load application shall be at the upper extremity of the frame at a 90° angle to the centerline of the vehicle. The side load shall be applied to the longitudinal side farthest from the point of rear-load application. Apply side load
L
as shown in Figure C-2. The test shall be stopped when:
(
1
) The strain energy absorbed by the frame is equal to or greater than the required input energy
E
is
; or
(
2
) Deflection of the frame exceeds the allowable deflection (see paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section); or
(
3
) Frame load limit occurs before the allowable deflection is reached in side load (see Figure C-5).
(G) Using data obtained in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(F) of this section, construct the
L-D
diagram as shown in Figure C-5;
(H) Calculate
E
is
;
(I) Calculate
FER
is
; and
(J) Calculate
FSB
as required by paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(3)
Dynamic test procedure.
(i) The following test conditions shall be met:
(A) The protective frame and tractor shall be tested at the weight defined by 29 CFR 1928.51(a);
(B) The dynamic loading shall be accomplished by using a 4,410-lb (2,000-kg) weight acting as a pendulum. The impact face of the weight shall be 27 ±1 in. by 27 ±1 in. (686 ±25 mm by 686 ±25 mm), and shall be constructed so that its center of gravity is within 1.0 in. (25.4 mm) of its geometric center. The weight shall be suspended from a pivot point 18 to 22 ft (5.5 to 6.7 m) above the point of impact on the frame, and shall be conveniently and safely adjustable for height (see Figure C-6);
(C) For each phase of testing, the tractor shall be restrained from moving when the dynamic load is applied. The restraining members shall have strength no less than, and elasticity no greater than, that of 0.50-in. (12.7-mm)
steel cable. Points of attachment for the restraining members shall be located an appropriate distance behind the rear axle and in front of the front axle to provide a 15° to 30° angle between a restraining cable and the horizontal. For impact from the rear, the restraining cables shall be located in the plane in which the center of gravity of the pendulum will swing, or alternatively, two sets of symmetrically located cables may be used at lateral locations on the tractor. For impact from the side, restraining cables shall be used as shown in Figures C-8 and C-9;
(D) The front and rear wheel-tread settings, when adjustable, shall be at the position nearest to halfway between the minimum and maximum settings obtainable on the vehicle. When only two settings are obtainable, the minimum setting shall be used. The tires shall have no liquid ballast, and shall be inflated to the maximum operating pressure recommended by the manufacturer. With the specified tire inflation, the restraining cable shall be tightened to provide tire deflection of 6 to 8 percent of the nominal tire-section width. After the vehicle is restrained properly, a wooden beam no less than 6-in. × 6-in. (150-mm × 150-mm) in cross section shall be driven tightly against the appropriate wheels and clamped. For the test to the side, an additional wooden beam shall be placed as a prop against the wheel nearest to the operator's station, and shall be secured to the base so that it is held tightly against the wheel rim during impact. The length of this beam shall be chosen so that it is at an angle of 25° to 40° to the horizontal when it is positioned against the wheel rim. It shall have a length 20 to 25 times its depth, and a width two to three times its depth (see Figures C-8 and C-9);
(E) Means shall be provided for indicating the maximum instantaneous deflection along the line of impact. A simple friction device is illustrated in Figure C-4;
(F) No repairs or adjustments shall be made during the test; and
(G) When any cables, props, or blocking shift or break during the test, the test shall be repeated.
(ii)
H
= Vertical height of the center of gravity of a 4,410-lb (2,000-kg) weight in in. (
H′
in mm). The weight shall be pulled back so that the height of its center of gravity above the point of impact is:
H
= 4.92 + 0.00190
W
(
H′
= 125 ±0.170
W′
) (see Figure C-7).
(iii) The test procedures shall be as follows:
(A) The frame shall be evaluated by imposing dynamic loading from the rear, followed by a load to the side on the same frame. The pendulum swinging from the height determined by paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section shall be used to impose the dynamic load. The position of the pendulum shall be so selected that the initial point of impact on the frame is in line with the arc of travel of the center of gravity of the pendulum. When a quick-release mechanism is used, it shall not influence the attitude of the block;
(B)
Impact at rear.
The tractor shall be restrained properly according to paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C) and (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section. The tractor shall be positioned with respect to the pivot point of the pendulum so that the pendulum is 20° from the vertical prior to impact as shown in Figure C-8. The impact shall be applied to the upper extremity of the frame at the point that is midway between the centerline of the frame and the inside of the frame upright. When no structural cross member exists at the rear of the frame, a substitute test beam that does not add to the strength of the frame may be used to complete the test procedure; and
(C)
Impact at side.
The blocking and restraining shall conform to paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C) and (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section. The center point of impact shall be at the upper extremity of the frame at a point most likely to hit the ground first, and at a 90° to the centerline of the vehicle (see Figure C-9). The side impact shall be applied to the longitudinal side farthest from the point of rear impact.
(4)
Field-upset test procedure.
(i) The following test conditions shall be met:
(A) The tractor shall be tested at the weight defined in 29 CFR 1928.51(a);
(B) The following provisions address soil bank test conditions.
(1) The test shall be conducted on a dry, firm soil bank. The soil in the impact area shall have an average cone index in the 0-in. to 6-in. (0-mm to 152-mm) layer of not less than 150. Cone index shall be determined according to American Society of Agricultural Engineers (“ASAE”) recommendation ASAE R313.1-1971 (“Soil cone penetrometer”), as reconfirmed in 1975, which is incorporated by reference. The incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The path of vehicle travel shall be 12° ±2° to the top edge of the bank.
(2) ASAE recommendation R313.1-1971, as reconfirmed in 1975, appears in the 1977 Agricultural Engineers Yearbook, or it may be examined at: Any OSHA Regional Office; the OSHA Docket Office, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N-2625, Washington, DC 20210 (telephone: (202) 693-2350 (TTY number: (877) 889-5627)); or the National Archives and Records Administration (“NARA”). (For information on the availability of this material at NARA, telephone (202) 741-6030 or access the NARA Web site at
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
) Copies may be purchased from the American Society of Agricultural Engineers, 2950 Niles Road, St. Joseph, MI 49085.
(C) An 18-in. (457-mm) high ramp (see Figure C-10) shall be used to assist in upsetting the vehicle to the side; and
(D) The front and rear wheel-tread settings, when adjustable, shall be at the position nearest to halfway between the minimum and maximum settings obtainable on the vehicle. When only two settings are obtainable, the minimum setting shall be used.
(ii) Field upsets shall be induced to the rear and side as follows:
(A) Rear upset shall be induced by engine power, with the tractor operating in gear to obtain 3 to 5 mph (4.8 to 8.0 kph) at maximum governed engine rpm by driving forward directly up a minimum slope of 60° ±5° as shown in Figure C-11, or by an alternative equivalent means. The engine clutch may be used to aid in inducing the upset; and
(B) To induce side upset, the tractor shall be driven under its own power along the specified path of travel at a minimum speed of 10 mph (16 kph), or at maximum vehicle speed when under 10 mph (16 kph), and over the ramp as described in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(C) of this section.
(e)
Performance requirements
—(1)
General requirements.
(i) The frame, overhead weather shield, fenders, or other parts in the operator area may be deformed in these tests, but shall not shatter or leave sharp edges exposed to the operator, or encroach on the dimensions shown in Figures C-2 and C-3, and specified as follows:
d
= 2 in. (51 mm) inside of the frame upright to the vertical centerline of the seat;
e
= 30 in. (762 mm) at the longitudinal centerline;
f
= Not greater than 4 in. (102 mm) to the rear edge of the crossbar, measured forward of the seat-reference point (“
SRP
”);
g = 24 in. (610 mm) minimum; and
m
= Not greater than 12 in. (305 mm), measured from the seat-reference point to the forward edge of the crossbar.
(ii) The protective structure and connecting fasteners must pass the static or dynamic tests described in paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3), or (d)(4) of this section at a metal temperature of 0 °F (−18 °C) or below, or exhibit Charpy V-notch impact strengths as follows:
10-mm × 10-mm (0.394-in. × 0.394-in.) specimen: 8.0 ft-lb (10.8 J) at −20 °F (−30 °C);
10-mm × 7.5-mm (0.394-in. × 0.296-in.) specimen: 7.0 ft-lb (9.5 J) at −20 °F (−30 °C);
10-mm × 5-mm (0.394-in. × 0.197-in.) specimen: 5.5 ft-lb (7.5 J) at −20 °F (−30 °C); or
10-mm × 2.5-mm (0.394-in. × 0.098-in.) specimen: 4.0 ft-lb (5.5 J) at −20 °F (−30 °C).
Specimens shall be longitudinal and taken from flat stock, tubular, or structural sections before forming or welding for use in the frame. Specimens from tubular or structural sections shall be taken from the middle of the side of greatest dimension, not to include welds.
(2)
Static test-performance requirements.
In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section for both side and rear loads,
FER
is
and
FER
ir
, shall be greater than 1.0, and when the ROPS contains one or two upright frames only,
FSB
shall be greater than 1.3.
(3)
Dynamic test-performance requirements.
The structural requirements shall be met when the dimensions in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are used in both side and rear loads.
(4)
Field-upset test performance requirements.
The requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be met for both side and rear upsets.
[70 FR 77004, Dec. 29, 2005]
§ 1928.53
Protective enclosures for wheel-type agricultural tractors—test procedures and performance requirements.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to establish the test and performance requirements for a protective enclosure designed for wheel-type agricultural tractors to minimize the frequency and severity of operator injury resulting from accidental upset. General requirements for the protection of operators are specified in 29 CFR 1928.51.
(b)
Types of tests.
All protective enclosures for wheel-type agricultural tractors shall be of a model that has been tested as follows:
(1)
Laboratory test.
A laboratory energy-absorption test, either static or dynamic, under repeatable and controlled loading, to permit analysis of the protective enclosure for compliance with the performance requirements of this standard; and
(2)
Field-upset test.
A field-upset test under controlled conditions, both to the side and rear, to verify the effectiveness of the protective system under actual dynamic conditions. This test may be omitted when:
(i) The analysis of the protective-frame static-energy absorption test results indicates that both
FER
is
and
FER
ir
(as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section) exceed 1.15; or
(ii) The analysis of the protective-frame dynamic-energy absorption test results indicates that the frame can withstand an impact 15 percent greater than the impact it is required to withstand for the tractor weight as shown in Figure C-7.
(c)
Description.
A protective enclosure is a structure comprising a frame and/or enclosure mounted to the tractor. A typical enclosure is shown in Figure C-12.
(d)
Test procedures
—(1)
General.
(i) The tractor weight used shall be that of the heaviest tractor model on which the protective enclosure is to be used.
(ii) Each test required under this section shall be performed on a protective enclosure with new structural members. Mounting connections of the same design shall be used during each test.
(iii) Instantaneous deflection shall be measured and recorded for each segment of the test; see paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section for permissible deflections.
(iv) The seat-reference point (“
SRP
”) in Figure C-14 is that point where the vertical line that is tangent to the most forward point at the longitudinal seat centerline of the seat back, and the horizontal line that is tangent to the highest point of the seat cushion, intersect in the longitudinal seat section. The seat-reference point shall be determined with the seat unloaded and adjusted to the highest and most rearward position provided for seated operations of the tractor.
(v) When the centerline of the seat is off the longitudinal center, the protective-enclosure loading shall be on the side with least space between the centerline of the seat and the protective enclosure.
(vi) Low-temperature characteristics of the protective enclosure or its material shall be demonstrated as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(vii) Rear input energy tests (static, dynamic, or field-upset) need not be performed on enclosures mounted to tractors having four driven wheels and more than one-half their unballasted weight on the front wheels.
(viii) Accuracy table:
Measurements
Accuracy
Deflection of the enclosure, in. (mm)
±5 percent of the deflection measured.
Vertical weight, pounds (kg)
±5 percent of the weight measured.
Force applied to the enclosure, pounds force (newtons)
±5 percent of the force measured.
Dimensions of the critical zone, in. (mm)
±0.5 in. (12.5 mm).
(ix) When movable or normally removable portions of the enclosure add to structural strength, they shall be
placed in configurations that contribute least to structural strength during the test.
(2)
Static test procedure.
(i) The following test conditions shall be met:
(A) The laboratory mounting base shall be the tractor chassis for which the protective enclosure is designed, or its equivalent; and
(B) The protective enclosure shall be instrumented with the necessary equipment to obtain the required load-deflection data at the locations and directions specified in Figures C-13 and C-14.
(ii) The following definitions shall apply:
W
= Tractor weight (see 29 CFR 1928.51(a)) in lb (
W
″ in kg);
E
is
= Energy input to be absorbed during side loading in ft-lb (
E
″
is
in J [joules]);
E
is
= 723 + 0.4
W
(
E
″
is
= 100 + 0.12
W
″);
E
ir
= Energy input to be absorbed during rear loading in ft-lb (
E
″
ir
in J);
E
ir
= 0.47
W
(
E
″
ir
= 0.14
W
″);
L
= Static load, lbf [pounds force], (N) [newtons];
D
= Deflection under
L
, in. (mm);
L-D
= Static load-deflection diagram;
L
max
= Maximum observed static load;
Load Limit
= Point on a continuous
L-D
curve where the observed static load is 0.8
L
max
on the down slope of the curve (see Figure C-5);
E
u
= Strain energy absorbed by the protective enclosure in ft-lbs (J); area under the
L-D
curve;
FER
= Factor of energy ratio;
FER
is
=
E
u
/
E
is
; and
FER
ir
=
E
u
/
E
ir.
(iii) The test procedures shall be as follows:
(A) When the protective-frame structures are not an integral part of the enclosure, the direction and point of load application for both side and rear shall be the same as specified in 29 CFR 1928.52(d)(2);
(B) When the protective-frame structures are an integral part of the enclosure, apply the rear load according to Figure C-14, and record
L
and
D
simultaneously. Rear-load application shall be distributed uniformly on the frame structure over an area perpendicular to the load application, no greater than 160 sq. in. (1,032 sq. cm) in size, with the largest dimension no greater than 27 in. (686 mm). The load shall be applied to the upper extremity of the structure at the point that is midway between the centerline of the protective enclosure and the inside of the protective structure. When no structural cross member exists at the rear of the enclosure, a substitute test beam that does not add strength to the structure may be used to complete this test procedure. The test shall be stopped when:
(
1
) The strain energy absorbed by the structure is equal to or greater than the required input energy
E
ir
; or
(
2
) Deflection of the structure exceeds the allowable deflection (see paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section); or
(
3
) The structure load limit occurs before the allowable deflection is reached in rear load (see Figure C-5);
(C) Using data obtained in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, construct the
L-D
diagram for rear loads as shown in Figure C-5;
(D) Calculate
E
ir
;
(E) Calculate
FER
ir
;
(F) When the protective-frame structures are an integral part of the enclosure, apply the side load according to Figure C-13, and record
L
and
D
simultaneously. Static side-load application shall be distributed uniformly on the frame over an area perpendicular to the direction of load application, and no greater than 160 sq. in. (1,032 sq. cm) in size, with the largest dimension no greater than 27 in. (686 mm). Side-load application shall be at a 90° angle to the centerline of the vehicle. The center of the side-load application shall be located between point
k
, 24 in. (610 mm) forward of the seat-reference point, and point
l
, 12 in. (305 mm) rearward of the seat-reference point, to best use the structural strength (see Figure C-13). This side load shall be applied to the longitudinal side farthest from the point of rear-load application. The test shall be stopped when:
(
1
) The strain energy absorbed by the structure is equal to or greater than the required input energy
E
is
; or
(
2
) Deflection of the structure exceeds the allowable deflection (see paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section); or
(
3
) The structure load limit occurs before the allowable deflection is reached in side load (see Figure C-5);
(G) Using data obtained in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(F) of this section, construct the
L-D
diagram for the side load as shown in Figure C-5;
(H) Calculate
FER
is
; and
(I) Calculate
FER
ir.
(3)
Dynamic test procedure.
(i) The following test conditions shall be met:
(A) The protective enclosure and tractor shall be tested at the weight defined by 29 CFR 1928.51(a);
(B) The dynamic loading shall be accomplished by using a 4,410-lb (2,000-kg) weight acting as a pendulum. The impact face of the weight shall be 27 ±1 in. by 27 ±1 in. (686 ±25 mm by 686 ±25 mm), and shall be constructed so that its center of gravity is within 1.0 in. (25.4 mm) of its geometric center. The weight shall be suspended from a pivot point 18 to 22 ft (5.5 to 6.7 m) above the point of impact on the enclosure, and shall be conveniently and safely adjustable for height (see Figure C-6);
(C) For each phase of testing, the tractor shall be restrained from moving when the dynamic load is applied. The restraining members shall have strength no less than, and elasticity no greater than, that of 0.50-in. (12.7-mm) steel cable. Points of attachment for the restraining members shall be located an appropriate distance behind the rear axle and in front of the front axle to provide a 15° to 30° angle between the restraining cable and the horizontal. For impact from the rear, the restraining cables shall be located in the plane in which the center of gravity of the pendulum will swing, or alternatively, two sets of symmetrically located cables may be used at lateral locations on the tractor. For the impact from the side, restraining cables shall be used as shown in Figures C-15 and C-16;
(D) The front and rear wheel-tread settings, when adjustable, shall be at the position nearest to halfway between the minimum and maximum settings obtainable on the vehicle. When only two settings are obtainable, the minimum setting shall be used. The tires shall have no liquid ballast, and shall be inflated to the maximum operating pressure recommended by the manufacturer. With specified tire inflation, the restraining cable shall be tightened to provide tire deflection of 6 to 8 percent of nominal tire section width. After the vehicle is retrained properly, a wooden beam no smaller than 6-in. × 6-in. (150-mm × 150-mm) cross-section shall be driven tightly against the appropriate wheels and clamped. For the test to the side, an additional wooden beam shall be placed as a prop against the wheel nearest the operator's station, and shall be secured to the base so that it is held tightly against the wheel rim during impact. The length of this beam shall be chosen so that it is at an angle of 25° to 40° to the horizontal when it is positioned against the wheel rim. It shall have a length 20 to 25 times its depth, and a width two to three times its depth (see Figures C-15 and C-16);
(E) Means shall be provided for indicating the maximum instantaneous deflection along the line of impact. A simple friction device is illustrated in Figure C-4;
(F) No repair or adjustments shall be made during the test; and
(G) When any cables, props, or blocking shift or break during the test, the test shall be repeated.
(ii)
H
= Vertical height of the center of gravity of a 4,410-lb (2,000-kg) weight in in. (
H
′ in mm). The weight shall be pulled back so that the height of its center of gravity above the point of impact is:
H
= 4.92 + 0.00190
W
(
H
′ = 125 + 0.107
W′
) (see Figure C-7).
(iii) The test procedures shall be as follows:
(A) The enclosure structure shall be evaluated by imposing dynamic loading from the rear, followed by a load to the side on the same enclosure structure. The pendulum swinging from the height determined by paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section shall be used to impose the dynamic load. The position of the pendulum shall be so selected that the initial point of impact on the protective structure is in line with the arc of travel of the center of gravity of the pendulum. When a quick-release mechanism is used, it shall not influence the attitude of the block;
(B)
Impact at rear.
The tractor shall be restrained properly according to paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C) and (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section. The tractor shall be positioned with respect to the pivot point of the pendulum so that the pendulum is 20° from the vertical prior to impact as shown in Figure C-15. The impact shall be applied to the upper extremity of the enclosure structure at the point
that is midway between the centerline of the enclosure structure and the inside of the protective structure. When no structural cross member exists at the rear of the enclosure structure, a substitute test beam that does not add to the strength of the structure may be used to complete the test procedure; and
(C)
Impact at side.
The blocking and restraining shall conform to paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C) and (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section. The center point of impact shall be at the upper extremity of the enclosure at a 90° angle to the centerline of the vehicle, and located between a point
k,
24 in. (610 mm) forward of the seat-reference point, and a point
l,
12 in. (305 mm) rearward of the seat-reference point, to best use the structural strength (see Figure C-13). The side impact shall be applied to the longitudinal side farthest from the point of rear impact.
(4)
Field-upset test procedure.
(i) The following test conditions shall be met:
(A) The tractor shall be tested at the weight defined in 29 CFR 1928.51(a);
(B) The following provisions address soil bank test conditions.
(1) The test shall be conducted on a dry, firm soil bank. The soil in the impact area shall have an average cone index in the 0-in. to 6-in. (0-mm to 152-mm) layer of not less than 150. Cone index shall be determined according to American Society of Agricultural Engineers (“ASAE”) recommendation ASAE R313.1-1971 (“Soil cone penetrometer”), as reconfirmed in 1975, which is incorporated by reference. The incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The path of vehicle travel shall be 12° ±2° to the top edge of the bank.
(2) ASAE recommendation R313.1-1971, as reconfirmed in 1975, appears in the 1977 Agricultural Engineers Yearbook, or it may be examined at: Any OSHA Regional Office; the OSHA Docket Office, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N-2625, Washington, DC 20210 (telephone: (202) 693-2350 (TTY number: (877) 889-5627)); or the National Archives and Records Administration (“NARA”). (For information on the availability of this material at NARA, telephone (202) 741-6030 or access the NARA Web site at
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
) Copies may be purchased from the American Society of Agricultural Engineers 2950 Niles Road, St. Joseph, MI 49085.
(C) An 18-in. (457 mm) high ramp (see Figure C-10) shall be used to assist in upsetting the vehicle to the side; and
(D) The front and rear wheel-tread settings, when adjustable, shall be at the position nearest to halfway between the minimum and maximum settings obtainable on the vehicle. When only two settings are obtainable, the minimum setting shall be used.
(ii) Field upsets shall be induced to the rear and side.
(A) Rear upset shall be induced by engine power, with the tractor operating in gear to obtain 3 to 5 mph (4.8 to 8.0 kph) at maximum governed engine rpm by driving forward directly up a minimum slope of 60° ±5° as shown in Figure C-11, or by an alternate equivalent means. The engine clutch may be used to aid in inducing the upset; and
(B) To induce side upset, the tractor shall be driven under its own power along the specified path of travel at a minimum speed of 10 mph (16 kph), or at maximum vehicle speed when under 10 mph (16 kph), and over the ramp as described in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(C) of this section.
(e)
Performance requirements
—(1)
General requirements.
(i) The protective enclosure structural members or other parts in the operator area may be deformed in these tests, but shall not shatter or leave sharp edges exposed to the operator. They shall not encroach on a transverse plane passing through points
d
and
f
within the projected area defined by dimensions
d, e,
and
g,
or on the dimensions shown in Figures C-13 and C-14, as follows:
d
= 2 in. (51 mm) inside of the protective structure to the vertical centerline of the seat;
e
= 30 in. (762 mm) at the longitudinal centerline;
f
= Not greater than 4 in. (102 mm) measured forward of the seat-reference point (“
SRP
”) at the longitudinal centerline as shown in Figure C-14;
g
= 24 in. (610 mm) minimum;
h
= 17.5 in. (445 mm) minimum; and
j
= 2.0 in. (51 mm) measured from the outer periphery of the steering wheel.
(ii) The protective structure and connecting fasteners must pass the static or dynamic tests described in paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3), or (d)(4) of this section at a metal temperature of 0 °F (−8 °C) or below, or exhibit Charpy V-notch impact strengths as follows:
10-mm × 10-mm (0.394-in. × 0.394-in.) specimen: 8.0 ft-lb (10.8 J) at −20 °F (−30 °C);
10-mm × 7.5-mm (0.394-in. × 0.296-in.) specimen: 7.0 ft-lb (9.5 J) at −20 °F (−30 °C);
10-mm × 5-mm (0.394-in. × 0.197-in.) specimen: 5.5 ft-lb (7.5 J) at −20 °F (−30 °C); or
10-mm × 2.5-mm (0.394-in. × 0.098-in.) specimen: 4.0 ft-lb (5.5 J) at −20 °F (−30 °C).
Specimens shall be longitudinal and taken from flat stock, tubular, or structural sections before forming or welding for use in the protective enclosure. Specimens from tubular or structural sections shall be taken from the middle of the side of greatest dimension, not to include welds.
(iii) The following provisions address glazing requirements.
(A) Glazing shall conform to the requirements contained in Society of Automotive Engineers (“SAE”) standard J674-1963 (“Safety glazing materials”), which is incorporated by reference. The incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.
(B) SAE standard J674-1963 appears in the 1965 SAE Handbook, or it may be examined at: any OSHA Regional Office; the OSHA Docket Office, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N-2625, Washington, DC 20210 (telephone: (202) 693-2350 (TTY number: (877) 889-5627)); or the National Archives and Records Administration (“NARA”). (For information on the availability of this material at NARA, telephone (202) 741-6030 or access the NARA Web site at
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
) Copies may be purchased from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, Pennsylvania 15096-0001.
(iv) Two or more operator exits shall be provided and positioned to avoid the possibility of both being blocked by the same accident.
(2)
Static test-performance requirements.
In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section for both side and rear loads,
FER
is
and
FER
ir
shall be greater than 1.0.
(3)
Dynamic test-performance requirements.
The structural requirements shall be met when the dimensions in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are used in both side and rear loads.
(4)
Field-upset test performance requirements.
The requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be met for both side and rear upsets.
[70 FR 77004, Dec. 29, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 41145, July 20, 2006]
Pt. 1928, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 1928—Employee Operating Instructions
1. Securely fasten your seat belt if the tractor has a ROPS.
2. Where possible, avoid operating the tractor near ditches, embankments, and holes.
3. Reduce speed when turning, crossing slopes, and on rough, slick, or muddy surfaces.
4. Stay off slopes too steep for safe operation.
5. Watch where you are going, especially at row ends, on roads, and around trees.
6. Do not permit others to ride.
7. Operate the tractor smoothly—no jerky turns, starts, or stops.
8. Hitch only to the drawbar and hitch points recommended by tractor manufacturers.
9. When tractor is stopped, set brakes securely and use park lock if available.
Pt. 1928, Subpt. C, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart C of Part 1928—Figures C-1 through C-16
ER20JY06.024
ER20JY06.025
ER20JY06.026
ER20JY06.027
ER20JY06.028
ER20JY06.029
ER20JY06.030
ER20JY06.031
ER20JY06.032
ER20JY06.033
ER20JY06.034
ER20JY06.035
ER20JY06.036
ER20JY06.037
ER20JY06.038
ER20JY06.039
[71 FR 41146, July 20, 2006]

# Subpart D—Safety for Agricultural Equipment
§ 1928.57
Guarding of farm field equipment, farmstead equipment, and cotton gins.
(a)
General
—(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to provide for the protection of employees from the hazards associated with moving machinery parts of farm field equipment, farmstead equipment, and cotton gins used in any agricultural operation.
(2)
Scope.
Paragraph (a) of this section contains general requirements which apply to all covered equipment. In addition, paragraph (b) of this section applies to farm field equipment, paragraph (c) of this section applies to farmstead equipment, and paragraph (d) of this section applies to cotton gins.
(3)
Application.
This section applies to all farm field equipment, farmstead equipment, and cotton gins, except that paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4)(ii)(A), and (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4)(ii)(A) do not apply to equipment manufactured before October 25, 1976.
(4)
Effective date.
This section takes effect on October 25, 1976, except that paragraph (d) of this section is effective on June 30, 1977.
(5)
Definitions—Cotton gins
are systems of machines which condition seed cotton, separate lint from seed, convey materials, and package lint cotton.
Farm field equipment
means tractors or implements, including self-propelled implements, or any combination thereof used in agricultural operations.
Farmstead equipment
means agricultural equipment normally used in a stationary manner. This includes, but is not limited to, materials handling equipment and accessories for such equipment whether or not the equipment is an integral part of a building.
Ground driven components
are components which are powered by the turning motion of a wheel as the equipment travels over the ground.
A
guard
or
shield
is a barrier designed to protect against employee contact with a hazard created by a moving machinery part.
Power take-off shafts
are the shafts and knuckles between the tractor, or other power source, and the first gear set, pulley, sprocket, or other components on power take-off shaft driven equipment.
(6)
Operating instructions.
At the time of initial assignment and at least annually thereafter, the employer shall instruct every employee in the safe operation and servicing of all covered equipment with which he is or will be involved, including at least the following safe operating practices:
(i) Keep all guards in place when the machine is in operation;
(ii) Permit no riders on farm field equipment other than persons required for instruction or assistance in machine operation;
(iii) Stop engine, disconnect the power source, and wait for all machine movement to stop before servicing, adjusting, cleaning, or unclogging the equipment, except where the machine must be running to be properly serviced or maintained, in which case the employer shall instruct employees as to all steps and procedures which are necessary to safely service or maintain the equipment;
(iv) Make sure everyone is clear of machinery before starting the engine, engaging power, or operating the machine;
(v) Lock out electrical power before performing maintenance or service on farmstead equipment.
(7)
Methods of guarding.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, each employer shall protect employees from coming into contact with hazards created by moving machinery parts as follows:
(i) Through the installation and use of a guard or shield or guarding by location;
(ii) Whenever a guard or shield or guarding by location is infeasible, by using a guardrail or fence.
(8)
Strength and design of guards.
(i) Where guards are used to provide the protection required by this section, they shall be designed and located to protect against inadvertent contact with the hazard being guarded.
(ii) Unless otherwise specified, each guard and its supports shall be capable of withstanding the force that a 250
pound individual, leaning on or falling against the guard, would exert upon that guard.
(iii) Guards shall be free from burrs, sharp edges, and sharp corners, and shall be securely fastened to the equipment or building.
(9)
Guarding by location.
A component is guarded by location during operation, maintenance, or servicing when, because of its location, no employee can inadvertently come in contact with the hazard during such operation, maintenance, or servicing. Where the employer can show that any exposure to hazards results from employee conduct which constitutes an isolated and unforeseeable event, the component shall also be considered guarded by location.
(10)
Guarding by railings.
Guardrails or fences shall be capable of protecting against employees inadvertently entering the hazardous area.
(11)
Servicing and maintenance.
Whenever a moving machinery part presents a hazard during servicing or maintenance, the engine shall be stopped, the power source disconnected, and all machine movement stopped before servicing or maintenance is performed, except where the employer can establish that:
(i) The equipment must be running to be properly serviced or maintained;
(ii) The equipment cannot be serviced or maintained while a guard or guards otherwise required by this standard are in place; and
(iii) The servicing or maintenance can be safely performed.
(b)
Farm field equipment
—(1)
Power take-off guarding.
(i) All power take-off shafts, including rear, mid- or side-mounted shafts, shall be guarded either by a master shield, as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, or by other protective guarding.
(ii) All tractors shall be equipped with an agricultural tractor master shield on the rear power take-off except where removal of the tractor master shield is permitted by paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. The master shield shall have sufficient strength to prevent permanent deformation of the shield when a 250 pound operator mounts or dismounts the tractor using the shield as a step.
(iii) Power take-off driven equipment shall be guarded to protect against employee contact with positively driven rotating members of the power drive system. Where power take-off driven equipment is of a design requiring removal of the tractor master shield, the equipment shall also include protection from that portion of the tractor power take-off shaft which protrudes from the tractor.
(iv) Signs shall be placed at prominent locations on tractors and power take-off driven equipment specifying that power drive system safety shields must be kept in place.
(2)
Other power transmission components.
(i) The mesh or nip-points of all power driven gears, belts, chains, sheaves, pulleys, sprockets, and idlers shall be guarded.
(ii) All revolving shafts, including projections such as bolts, keys, or set screws, shall be guarded, except smooth shaft ends protruding less than one-half the outside diameter of the shaft and its locking means.
(iii) Ground driven components shall be guarded in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section if any employee may be exposed to them while the drives are in motion.
(3)
Functional components.
Functional components, such as snapping or husking rolls, straw spreaders and choppers, cutterbars, flail rotors, rotary beaters, mixing augers, feed rolls, conveying augers, rotary tillers, and similar units, which must be exposed for proper function, shall be guarded to the fullest extent which will not substantially interfere with normal functioning of the component.
(4)
Access to moving parts.
(i) Guards, shields, and access doors shall be in place when the equipment is in operation.
(ii) Where removal of a guard or access door will expose an employee to any component which continues to rotate after the power is disengaged, the employer shall provide, in the immediate area, the following:
(A) A readily visible or audible warning of rotation; and
(B) A safety sign warning the employee to:
(
1
) Look and listen for evidence of rotation; and
(
2
) Not remove the guard or access door until all components have stopped.
(c)
Farmstead equipment
—(1)
Power take-off guarding.
(i) All power take-off shafts, including rear, mid-, or side-mounted shafts, shall be guarded either by a master shield as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section or other protective guarding.
(ii) Power take-off driven equipment shall be guarded to protect against employee contact with positively driven rotating members of the power drive system. Where power take-off driven equipment is of a design requiring removal of the tractor master shield, the equipment shall also include protection from that portion of the tractor power take-off shaft which protrudes from the tractor.
(iii) Signs shall be placed at prominent locations on power take-off driven equipment specifying that power drive system safety shields must be kept in place.
(2)
Other power transmission components.
(i) The mesh or nip-points of all power driven gears, belts, chains, sheaves, pulleys, sprockets, and idlers shall be guarded.
(ii) All revolving shafts, including projections such as bolts, keys, or set screws, shall be guarded, with the exception of:
(A) Smooth shafts and shaft ends (without any projecting bolts, keys, or set screws), revolving at less than 10 rpm, on feed handling equipment used on the top surface of materials in bulk storage facilities; and
(B) Smooth shaft ends protruding less than one-half the outside diameter of the shaft and its locking means.
(3)
Functional components.
(i) Functional components, such as choppers, rotary beaters, mixing augers, feed rolls, conveying augers, grain spreaders, stirring augers, sweep augers, and feed augers, which must be exposed for proper function, shall be guarded to the fullest extent which will not substantially interfere with the normal functioning of the component.
(ii) Sweep arm material gathering mechanisms used on the top surface of materials within silo structures shall be guarded. The lower or leading edge of the guard shall be located no more than 12 inches above the material surface and no less than 6 inches in front of the leading edge of the rotating member of the gathering mechanism. The guard shall be parallel to, and extend the fullest practical length of, the material gathering mechanism.
(iii) Exposed auger flighting on portable grain augers shall be guarded with either grating type guards or solid baffle style covers as follows:
(A) The largest dimensions or openings in grating type guards through which materials are required to flow shall be 4
3/4
inches. The area of each opening shall be no larger than 10 square inches. The opening shall be located no closer to the rotating flighting than 2
1/2
inches.
(B) Slotted openings in solid baffle style covers shall be no wider than 1
1/2
inches, or closer than 3
1/2
inches to the exposed flighting.
(4)
Access to moving parts.
(i) Guards, shields, and access doors shall be in place when the equipment is in operation.
(ii) Where removal of a guard or access door will expose an employee to any component which continues to rotate after the power is disengaged, the employer shall provide, in the immediate area, the following:
(A) A readily visible or audible warning of rotation; and
(B) A safety sign warning the employee to:
(
1
) Look and listen for evidence of rotation; and
(
2
) Not remove the guard or access door until all components have stopped.
(5)
Electrical disconnect means.
(i) Application of electrical power from a location not under the immediate and exclusive control of the employee or employees maintaining or servicing equipment shall be prevented by:
(A) Providing an exclusive, positive locking means on the main switch which can be operated only by the employee or employees performing the maintenance or servicing; or
(B) In the case of material handling equipment located in a bulk storage structure, by physically locating on the equipment an electrical or mechanical means to disconnect the power.
(ii) All circuit protection devices, including those which are an integral part of a motor, shall be of the manual reset type, except where:
(A) The employer can establish that because of the nature of the operation, distances involved, and the amount of time normally spent by employees in the area of the affected equipment, use of the manual reset device would be infeasible;
(B) There is an electrical disconnect switch available to the employee within 15 feet of the equipment upon which maintenance or service is being performed; and
(C) A sign is prominently posted near each hazardous component which warns the employee that, unless the electrical disconnect switch is utilized, the motor could automatically reset while the employee is working on the hazardous component.
(d)
Cotton ginning equipment
—(1)
Power transmission components.
(i) The main drive and miscellaneous drives of gin stands shall be completely enclosed, guarded by location, or guarded by railings (consistent with the requirements of paragraph (a)(7) of this section). Drives between gin stands shall be guarded so as to prevent access to the area between machines.
(ii) When guarded by railings, any hazardous component within 15 horizontal inches of the rail shall be completely enclosed. Railing height shall be approximately 42 inches off the floor, platform, or other working surface, with a midrail between the toprail and the working surface. Panels made of materials conforming to the requirements in Table D-1, or equivalent, may be substituted for midrails. Guardrails shall be strong enough to withstand at least 200 pounds force on the toprail.
(iii) Belts guarded by railings shall be inspected for defects at least daily. The machinery shall not be operated until all defective belts are replaced.
Table D-1—Examples of Minimum Requirements for Guard Panel Materials
Material
Clearance from moving part at all points (in inches)
Largest mesh or opening allowable (in inches)
Minimum gage (U.S. standard) or thickness
Woven wire
Under 2
3/8
16
2 to 4
1/2
16
4 to 15
2
12
Expanded metal
Under 4
4 to 15
1/2
2
18
13
Perforated metal
Under 4
4 to 15
1/2
2
20
14
Sheet metal
Under 4
22
4 to 15
22
Plastic
Under 4
(
1
)
4 to 15
(
1
)
1
Tensile strength of 10,000 lb/in
2
(iv) Pulleys of V-belt drives shall be completely enclosed or guarded by location whether or not railings are present. The open end of the pulley guard shall be not less than 4 inches from the periphery of the pulleys.
(v) Chains and sprockets shall be completely enclosed, except that they may be guarded by location if the bearings are packed or if accessible extension lubrication fittings are used.
(vi) Where complete enclosure of a component is likely to cause a fire hazard due to excessive deposits of lint, only the face section of nip-point and pulley guards is required. The guard shall extend at least 6 inches beyond the rim of the pulley on the in-running and off-running sides of the belt, and at least 2 inches from the rim and face of the pulley in all other directions.
(vii) Projecting shaft ends not guarded by location shall present a smooth edge and end, shall be guarded by non-rotating caps or safety sleeves, and may not protrude more than one-half the outside diameter of the shaft.
(viii) In power plants and power development rooms where access is limited to authorized personnel, guard railings may be used in place of guards or guarding by location. Authorized employees having access to power plants and power development rooms shall be instructed in the safe operation and maintenance of the equipment in accordance with paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(2)
Functional components.
(i) Gin stands shall be provided with a permanently installed guard designed to preclude contact with the gin saws while
in motion. The saw blades in the roll box shall be considered guarded by location if they do not extend through the ginning ribs into the roll box when the breast is in the out position.
(ii) Moving saws on lint cleaners which have doors giving access to the saws shall be guarded by fixed barrier guards or their equivalent which prevent direct finger or hand contact with the saws while the saws are in motion.
(iii) An interlock shall be installed on all balers so that the upper gates cannot be opened while the tramper is operating.
(iv) Top panels of burr extractors shall be hinged and equipped with a sturdy positive latch.
(v) All accessible screw conveyors shall be guarded by substantial covers or gratings, or with an inverted horizontally slotted guard of the trough type, which will prevent employees from coming into contact with the screw conveyor. Such guards may consist of horizontal bars spaced so as to allow material to be fed into the conveyor, and supported by arches which are not more than 8 feet apart. Screw conveyors under gin stands shall be considered guarded by location.
(3)
Warning device.
A warning device shall be installed in all gins to provide an audible signal which will indicate to employees that any or all of the machines comprising the gin are about to be started. The signal shall be of sufficient volume to be heard by employees, and shall be sounded each time before starting the gin.
[41 FR 10195, Mar. 9, 1976; 41 FR 11022, Mar. 16, 1976; 41 FR 22268, June 2, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 46598, Oct. 22, 1976]
Subparts E-H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—General Environmental Controls
§ 1928.110
Field sanitation.
(a)
Scope.
This section shall apply to any agricultural establishment where eleven (11) or more employees are engaged on any given day in hand-labor operations in the field.
(b)
Definitions. Agricultural employer
means any person, corporation, association, or other legal entity that:
(i) Owns or operates an agricultural establishment;
(ii) Contracts with the owner or operator of an agricultural establishment in advance of production for the purchase of a crop and exercises substantial control over production; or
(iii) Recruits and supervises employees or is responsible for the management and condition of an agricultural establishment.
Agricultural establishment
is a business operation that uses paid employees in the production of food, fiber, or other materials such as seed, seedlings, plants, or parts of plants.
Hand-labor operations
means agricultural activities or agricultural operations performed by hand or with hand tools. Except for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section,
hand-labor operations
also include other activities or operations performed in conjunction with hand labor in the field. Some examples of
hand-labor operations
are the hand-cultivation, hand-weeding, hand-planting and hand-harvesting of vegetables, nuts, fruits, seedlings or other crops, including mushrooms, and the hand packing of produce into containers, whether done on the ground, on a moving machine or in a temporary packing shed located in the field.
Hand-labor
does not include such activities as logging operations, the care or feeding of livestock, or hand-labor operations in permanent structures (e.g., canning facilities or packing houses).
Handwashing facility
means a facility providing either a basin, container, or outlet with an adequate supply of potable water, soap and single-use towels.
Potable water
means water that meets the standards for drinking purposes of the State or local authority having jurisdiction, or water that meets the quality standards prescribed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's National Primary Drinking Water Regulations (40 CFR part 141).
Toilet facility
means a fixed or portable facility designed for the purpose of adequate collection and containment of the products of both defecation and urination which is supplied with toilet
paper adequate to employee needs. Toilet facility includes biological, chemical, flush and combustion toilets and sanitary privies.
(c)
Requirements.
Agricultural employers shall provide the following for employees engaged in hand-labor operations in the field, without cost to the employee:
(1)
Potable drinking water.
(i) Potable water shall be provided and placed in locations readily accessible to all employees.
(ii) The water shall be suitably cool and in sufficient amounts, taking into account the air temperature, humidity and the nature of the work performed, to meet the needs of all employees.
(iii) The water shall be dispensed in single-use drinking cups or by fountains. The use of common drinking cups or dippers is prohibited.
(2)
Toilet and handwashing facilities.
(i) One toilet facility and one handwashing facility shall be provided for each twenty (20) employees or fraction thereof, except as stated in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section.
(ii) Toilet facilities shall be adequately ventilated, appropriately screened, have self-closing doors that can be closed and latched from the inside and shall be constructed to insure privacy.
(iii) Toilet and handwashing facilities shall be accessibly located and in close proximity to each other. The facilities shall be located within a one-quarter-mile walk of each hand laborer's place of work in the field.
(iv) Where due to terrain it is not feasible to locate facilities as required above, the facilities shall be located at the point of closest vehicular access.
(v) Toilet and handwashing facilities are not required for employees who perform field work for a period of three (3) hours or less (including transportation time to and from the field) during the day.
(3)
Maintenance.
Potable drinking water and toilet and handwashing facilities shall be maintained in accordance with appropriate public health sanitation practices, including the following:
(i) Drinking water containers shall be constructed of materials that maintain water quality, shall be refilled daily or more often as necessary, shall be kept covered and shall be regularly cleaned.
(ii) Toilet facilities shall be operational and maintained in clean and sanitary condition.
(iii) Handwashing facilities shall be refilled with potable water as necessary to ensure an adequate supply and shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition; and
(iv) Disposal of wastes from facilities shall not cause unsanitary conditions.
(4)
Reasonable use.
The employer shall notify each employee of the location of the sanitation facilities and water and shall allow each employee reasonable opportunities during the workday to use them. The employer also shall inform each employee of the importance of each of the following good hygiene practices to minimize exposure to the hazards in the field of heat, communicable diseases, retention of urine and agrichemical residues:
(i) Use the water and facilities provided for drinking, handwashing and elimination;
(ii) Drink water frequently and especially on hot days;
(iii) Urinate as frequently as necessary;
(iv) Wash hands both before and after using the toilet; and
(v) Wash hands before eating and smoking.
(d)
Dates
—(1)
Effective date.
This standard shall take effect on May 30, 1987.
(2)
Startup dates.
Employers must comply with the requirements of paragraphs:
(i) Paragraph (c)(1), to provide potable drinking water, by May 30, 1987;
(ii) Paragraph (c)(2), to provide handwashing and toilet facilities, by July 30, 1987;
(iii) Paragraph (c)(3), to provide maintenance for toilet and handwashing facilities, by July 30, 1987; and
(iv) Paragraph (c)(4), to assure reasonable use, by July 30, 1987.
[52 FR 16095, May 1, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 33612, June 8, 2011]
Subparts J-L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Occupational Health
§ 1928.1027
Cadmium.
See § 1910.1027,
Cadmium.
[61 FR 9255, Mar. 7, 1996]
Pt. 1949

# PART 1949—OFFICE OF TRAINING AND EDUCATION, OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION

# Subpart A—OSHA Training Institute
Sec.
1949.1
Policy regarding tuition fees.
1949.2
Definitions.
1949.3
Schedule of fees.
1949.4
Procedure for payment.
1949.5
Refunds.

# Authority:
Secs. 8, 26, Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 657, 670); 31 U.S.C. 9701; Secretary of Labor's Order No. 9-83 (48 FR 35736).

# Source:
49 FR 32066, Aug. 10, 1984, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—OSHA Training Institute
§ 1949.1
Policy regarding tuition fees.
(a) The OSHA Training Institute shall charge tuition fees for all private sector students attending Institute courses.
(b) The following private sector students shall be exempt from the payment of tuition fees.
(1) Associate members of Field Federal Safety and Health Councils.
(2) Students who are representatives of foreign governments.
(3) Students attending courses which are required by OSHA for the student to maintain an existing designation of OSHA certified outreach trainer.
(c) Additional exemptions may be made by the Director of the OSHA Training Institute on a case by case basis if it is determined that the students exempted are employed by a nonprofit organization and the granting of an exemption from tuition would be in the best interest of the occupational safety and health program. Individuals or organizations wishing to be considered for this exemption shall make application to the Director of the OSHA Training Institute in writing stating the reasons for an exemption from payment of tuition.
[56 FR 28076, June 19, 1991]
§ 1949.2
Definitions.
Any term not defined herein shall have the same meaning as given it in the Act. As used in this subpart:
Private sector students
means those students attending the Institute who are not employees of Federal, State, or local governments.
§ 1949.3
Schedule of fees.
(a) Tuition fees will be computed on the basis of the cost to the Government for the Institute conduct of the course, as determined by the Director of the Institute.
(b) Total tuition charges for each course will be set forth in the course announcement.
§ 1949.4
Procedure for payment.
(a) Applications for Institute courses shall be submitted to the Institute Registrar's office in accordance with instructions issued by the Institute.
(b) Private sector personnel shall, upon notification of their acceptance by the Institute, submit a check payable to “U.S. Department of Labor” in the amount indicated by the course announcement prior to the commencement of the course.
§ 1949.5
Refunds.
An applicant may withdraw an application and receive full reimbursement of the fee provided that written notification to the Institute Registrar is mailed no later than 14 days before the commencement of the course for which registration has been submitted.
Pt. 1952

# PART 1952—APPROVED STATE PLANS FOR ENFORCEMENT OF STATE STANDARDS

# Subpart A—List of Approved State Plans for Private-Sector and State and Local Government Employees
Sec.
1952.1
South Carolina.
1952.2
Oregon.
1952.3
Utah.
1952.4
Washington.
1952.5
North Carolina.
1952.6
Iowa.
1952.7
California.
1952.8
Minnesota.
1952.9
Maryland.
1952.10
Tennessee.
1952.11
Kentucky.
1952.12
Alaska.
1952.13
Michigan.
1952.14
Vermont.
1952.15
Nevada.
1952.16
Hawaii.
1952.17
Indiana.
1952.18
Wyoming.
1952.19
Arizona.
1952.20
New Mexico.
1952.21
Virginia.
1952.22
Puerto Rico.

# Subpart B—List of Approved State Plans for State and Local Government Employees
1952.23
Connecticut.
1952.24
New York.
1952.25
New Jersey.
1952.26
The Virgin Islands.
1952.27
Illinois.
1952.28
Maine.
1952.29
Massachusetts.

# Authority:
Sec. 18, 84 Stat. 1608 (29 U.S.C. 667); 29 CFR part 1902; Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1-2012 (77 FR 3912, Jan. 25, 2012), or 8-2020 (85 FR 58393, Sept. 18, 2020), as applicable.

# Subpart A—List of Approved State Plans for Private-Sector and State and Local Government Employees
§ 1952.1
South Carolina.
(a) The South Carolina State plan received initial approval on December 6, 1972.
(b) The South Carolina State plan received final approval on December 18, 1987.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance officer staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984, South Carolina, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the staffing levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 17 safety and 12 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on January 17, 1986.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/south_carolina.html.
§ 1952.2
Oregon.
(a) The Oregon State plan received initial approval on December 28, 1972.
(b) The Oregon State plan received final approval on May 12, 2005.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (“benchmarks”) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required for each State operating an approved State plan. In October 1992, Oregon completed, in conjunction with OSHA, a reassessment of the health staffing level initially established in 1980 and proposed a revised health benchmark of 28 health compliance officers. Oregon elected to retain the safety benchmark level established in the 1980 Report to the Court of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in 1980 of 47 safety compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on August 11, 1994.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/oregon.html.
§ 1952.3
Utah.
(a) The Utah State plan received initial approval on January 10, 1973.
(b) The Utah State plan received final approval on July 16, 1985.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an
approved State plan. In September 1984, Utah, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 10 safety and 9 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comments and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements effective July 16, 1985.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/utah.html.
§ 1952.4
Washington.
(a) The Washington State plan received initial approval on January 26, 1973.
(b) OSHA entered into an operational status agreement with Washington.
(c) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/washington.html.
§ 1952.5
North Carolina.
(a) The North Carolina State plan received initial approval on February 1, 1973.
(b) The North Carolina State plan received final approval on December 18, 1996.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (“benchmarks”) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984, North Carolina, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised benchmarks of 50 safety and 27 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on January 17, 1986.
In June 1990, North Carolina reconsidered the information utilized in the initial revision of its 1980 benchmarks and determined that changes in local conditions and improved inspection data warranted further revision of its benchmarks to 64 safety inspectors and 50 industrial hygienists. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on June 4, 1996.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/north_carolina.html.
§ 1952.6
Iowa.
(a) The Iowa State plan received initial approval on July 20, 1973.
(b) The Iowa State plan received final approval on July 2, 1985.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984, Iowa, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 16 safety and 13 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements effective July 2, 1985.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/iowa.html.
§ 1952.7
California.
(a) The California State plan received initial approval on May 1, 1973.
(b) OSHA entered into an operational status agreement with California.
(c) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/california.html.
§ 1952.8
Minnesota.
(a) The Minnesota State plan received initial approval on June 8, 1973.
(b) The Minnesota State plan received final approval on July 30, 1985.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984 Minnesota, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 31 safety and 12 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on July 30, 1985.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/minnesota.html.
§ 1952.9
Maryland.
(a) The Maryland State plan received initial approval on July 5, 1973.
(b) The Maryland State plan received final approval on July 18, 1985.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984 Maryland, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 36 safety and 18 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on July 18, 1985.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/maryland.html.
§ 1952.10
Tennessee.
(a) The Tennessee State plan received initial approval on July 5, 1973.
(b) The Tennessee State plan received final approval on July 22, 1985.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984 Tennessee, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 22 safety and 14 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on July 22, 1985.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/tennessee.html.
§ 1952.11
Kentucky.
(a) The Kentucky State plan received initial approval on July 31, 1973.
(b) The Kentucky State plan received final approval on June 13, 1985.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984 Kentucky, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 23 safety and 14 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on June 13, 1985.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/kentucky.html.
§ 1952.12
Alaska.
(a) The Alaska State plan received initial approval on August 10, 1973.
(b) The Alaska State plan received final approval on September 28, 1984.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. Alaska's compliance staffing benchmarks are 4 safety and 5 health compliance officers.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/alaska.html.
§ 1952.13
Michigan.
(a) The Michigan State plan received initial approval on October 3, 1973.
(b) OSHA entered into an operational status agreement with Michigan.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (“benchmarks”) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required for each State operating an approved State plan. In 1992, Michigan completed, in conjunction with OSHA, a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised benchmarks of 56 safety and 45 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on April 20, 1995.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
https://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/michigan.html.
§ 1952.14
Vermont.
(a) The Vermont State plan received initial approval on October 16, 1973.
(b) OSHA entered into an operational status agreement with Vermont.
(c) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/vermont.html.
§ 1952.15
Nevada.
(a) The Nevada State plan received initial approval on January 4, 1974.
(b) The Nevada State plan received final approval on April 18, 2000.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In July 1986 Nevada, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 11 safety and 5 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the
AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on September 2, 1987.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/nevada.html.
§ 1952.16
Hawaii.
(a) The Hawaii State plan received initial approval on January 4, 1974.
(b) The Hawaii State plan received final approval on May 4, 1984.
(c) On September 21, 2012 OSHA modified the State Plan's approval status from final approval to initial approval, and reinstated concurrent federal enforcement authority pending the necessary corrective action by the State Plan in order to once again meet the criteria for a final approval determination. OSHA and Hawaii entered into an operational status agreement to provide a workable division of enforcement responsibilities.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/hawaii.html.
§ 1952.17
Indiana.
(a) The Indiana State plan received initial approval on March 6, 1974.
(b) The Indiana State plan received final approval on September 26, 1986.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984 Indiana, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 47 safety and 23 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on January 17, 1986.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/indiana.html.
§ 1952.18
Wyoming.
(a) The Wyoming State plan received initial approval on May 3, 1974.
(b) The Wyoming State plan received final approval on June 27, 1985.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984 Wyoming, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 6 safety and 2 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on June 27, 1985.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/wyoming.html.
§ 1952.19
Arizona.
(a) The Arizona State plan received initial approval on November 5, 1974.
(b) The Arizona State plan received final approval on June 20, 1985.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984, Arizona in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the
levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 9 safety and 6 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on June 20, 1985.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/arizona.html.
§ 1952.20
New Mexico.
(a) The New Mexico State plan received initial approval on December 10, 1975.
(b) OSHA entered into an operational status agreement with New Mexico.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (“benchmarks”) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required for each State operating an approved State plan. In May 1992, New Mexico completed, in conjunction with OSHA, a reassessment of the staffing levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised benchmarks of 7 safety and 3 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on August 11, 1994.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/new_mexico.html.
§ 1952.21
Virginia.
(a) The Virginia State plan received initial approval on September 28, 1976.
(b) The Virginia State plan received final approval on November 30, 1988.
(c) Under the terms of the 1978 Court Order in
AFL-CIO
v.
Marshall,
compliance staffing levels (benchmarks) necessary for a “fully effective” enforcement program were required to be established for each State operating an approved State plan. In September 1984 Virginia, in conjunction with OSHA, completed a reassessment of the levels initially established in 1980 and proposed revised compliance staffing benchmarks of 38 safety and 21 health compliance officers. After opportunity for public comment and service on the AFL-CIO, the Assistant Secretary approved these revised staffing requirements on January 17, 1986.
(d) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/virginia.html.
§ 1952.22
Puerto Rico.
(a) The Puerto Rico State plan received initial approval on August 30, 1977.
(b) OSHA entered into an operational status agreement with Puerto Rico.
(c) The plan covers all private-sector employers and employees, with several notable exceptions, as well as State and local government employers and employees, within the State. For current information on these exceptions and for additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/puerto_rico.html.

# Subpart B—List of Approved State Plans for State and Local Government Employees
§ 1952.23
Connecticut.
(a) The Connecticut State plan for State and local government employees received initial approval from the Assistant Secretary on November 3, 1978.
(b) In accordance with 29 CFR 1956.10(g), a State is required to have a sufficient number of adequately trained and competent personnel to discharge its responsibilities under the plan. The Connecticut Public Employee Only State plan provides for three (3) safety compliance officers and one (1) health compliance officer as set forth in the Connecticut Fiscal Year 1986 grant. This staffing level meets
the “fully effective” benchmarks established for Connecticut for both safety and health.
(c) The plan only covers State and local government employers and employees within the State. For additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/connecticut.html.
§ 1952.24
New York.
(a) The New York State plan for State and local government employees received initial approval from the Assistant Secretary on June 1, 1984.
(b) The plan, as revised on April 28, 2006, provides assurances of a fully trained, adequate staff, including 29 safety and 21 health compliance officers for enforcement inspections and 11 safety and 9 health consultants to perform consultation services in the public sector. The State has also given satisfactory assurances of continued adequate funding to support the plan.
(c) The plan only covers State and local government employers and employees within the State. For additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/new_york.html.
§ 1952.25
New Jersey.
(a) The New Jersey State plan for State and local government employees received initial approval from the Assistant Secretary on January 11, 2001.
(b) The plan further provides assurances of a fully trained, adequate staff, including 20 safety and 7 health compliance officers for enforcement inspections, and 4 safety and 3 health consultants to perform consultation services in the public sector, and 2 safety and 3 health training and education staff. The State has assured that it will continue to provide a sufficient number of adequately trained and qualified personnel necessary for the enforcement of standards as required by 29 CFR 1956.10. The State has also given satisfactory assurance of adequate funding to support the plan.
(c) The plan only covers State and local government employers and employees within the State. For additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/new_jersey.html.
§ 1952.26
The Virgin Islands.
(a) The Virgin Islands State plan for Public Employees Only was approved on July 23, 2003.
(b) The plan only covers State and local government employers and employees within the State. For additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/virgin_islands.html.
§ 1952.27
Illinois.
(a) The Illinois State plan for state and local government employees received initial approval from the Assistant Secretary on September 1, 2009.
(b) The Plan further provides assurances of a fully trained, adequate staff within three years of plan approval, including 11 safety and 3 health compliance officers for enforcement inspections, and 3 safety and 2 health consultants to perform consultation services in the public sector. The state has assured that it will continue to provide a sufficient number of adequately trained and qualified personnel necessary for the enforcement of standards as required by 29 CFR 1956.10. The state has also given satisfactory assurance of adequate funding to support the Plan.
(c) The plan only covers State and local government employers and employees within the state. For additional details about the plan, please visit
http://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/illinois.html.
§ 1952.28
Maine.
(a) The Maine State Plan for State and local government employees received initial approval from the Assistant Secretary on August 5, 2015.
(b) The Plan further provides assurances of a fully trained, adequate staff within three years of plan approval, including 2 safety and 1 health compliance officers for enforcement inspections, and 3 safety and 1 health consultants to perform consultation services in the public sector. The State has assured that it will continue to provide a sufficient number of adequately trained and qualified personnel necessary for the enforcement of standards as required by 29 CFR 1956.10. The State has also given satisfactory assurance of adequate funding to support the Plan.
(c) The plan only covers State and local government employers and employees within the State. For additional details about the plan, please visit
https://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/maine.html.
[81 FR 6178, Feb. 5, 2016]
§ 1952.29
Massachusetts.
(a) The Massachusetts State Plan for State and local Government employees received initial approval from the Assistant Secretary on August 18, 2022.
(b) The Plan further provides assurances of a fully trained, adequate staff within three years of plan approval, including 8 safety and 3 health compliance officers for enforcement inspections, and 2 safety and 1 health consultants to perform consultation services in the public sector. The State has assured that it will continue to provide a sufficient number of adequately trained and qualified personnel necessary for the enforcement of standards as required by 29 CFR 1956.10. The State has also given satisfactory assurance of adequate funding to support the Plan.
(c) The plan only covers State and local government employers and employees within the State. For additional details about the plan, please visit
https://www.osha.gov/dcsp/osp/stateprogs/massachusetts.html.
[87 FR 50775, Aug. 18, 2022]
Pt. 1953

# PART 1953—CHANGES TO STATE PLANS
Sec.
1953.1
Purpose and scope.
1953.2
Definitions.
1953.3
General policies and procedures.
1953.4
Submission of plan supplements.
1953.5
Special provisions for standards changes.
1953.6
Review and approval of plan supplements.

# Authority:
Sec. 18, 84 Stat. 1608 (29 U.S.C. 667); Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1-2012 (77 FR 3912, Jan. 25, 2012).

# Source:
67 FR 60125, Sept. 25, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1953.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part implements the provisions of section 18 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (“OSH Act” or the “Act”) which provides for State plans for the development and enforcement of State occupational safety and health standards. These plans must meet the criteria in section 18(c) of the Act, and part 1902 of this chapter (for plans covering both private sector and State and local government employers) or part 1956 of this chapter (for plans covering only State and local government employers), either at the time of submission or—where the plan is developmental—within the three year period immediately following commencement of the plan's operation. Approval of a State plan is based on a finding that the State has, or will have, a program, pursuant to appropriate State law, for the adoption and enforcement of State standards that is “at least as effective” as the Federal program.
(b) When submitting plans, the States provide assurances that they will continue to meet the requirements in section 18(c) of the Act and part 1902 or part 1956 of this chapter for a program that is “at least as effective” as the Federal. Such assurances are a fundamental basis for approval of plans. (
See
§§ 1902.3 and 1956.2 of this chapter.) From time to time after initial plan approval, States will need to make changes to their plans. This part establishes procedures for submission and review of State plan supplements documenting those changes that are necessary to fulfill the State's assurances, the requirements of the Act, and part 1902 or part 1956 of this chapter.
(c) Changes to a plan may be initiated in several ways. In the case of a developmental plan, changes are required to document establishment of those necessary structural program components that were not in place at the time of plan approval. These commitments are included in a developmental schedule approved as part of the initial plan. These “developmental changes” must be completed within the three year period immediately following the commencement of operations under the plan. Another circumstance requiring subsequent changes to a State plan would be the need to keep pace with changes to the Federal program, or “Federal Program
Changes.” A third situation would be when changes are required as a result of the continuing evaluation of the State program. Such changes are called “evaluation changes.” Finally, changes to a State program's safety and health requirements or procedures initiated by the State without a Federal parallel could have an impact on the effectiveness of the State program. Such changes are called “State-initiated changes.” While requirements for submission of a plan supplement to OSHA differ depending on the type of change, all supplements are processed in accordance with the procedures in § 1953.6.
§ 1953.2
Definitions.
(a)
OSHA
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, or any representative authorized to perform any of the functions discussed in this part, as set out in implementing Instructions.
(b)
State
means an authorized representative of the agency designated to administer a State plan under § 1902.3(b) of this chapter.
(c)
Plan change
means any modification made by a State to its approved occupational safety and health State plan which has an impact on the plan's effectiveness.
(d)
Plan supplement
means all documents necessary to accomplish, implement, describe and evaluate the effectiveness of a change to a State plan which differs from the parallel Federal legislation, regulation, policy or procedure. (This would include a copy of the complete legislation, regulation, policy or procedure adopted; an identification of each of the differences; and an explanation of how each provision is at least as effective as the comparable Federal provision.)
(e)
Identical plan change
means one in which the State adopts the same program provisions and documentation as the Federal program with the only differences being those modifications necessary to reflect a State's unique structure (e.g., organizational responsibility within a State and corresponding titles or internal State numbering system).
Different plan change
means one in which the State adopts program provisions and documentation that are not identical as defined in this paragraph.
(g)
Developmental change
is a change made to a State plan which documents the completion of a program component which was not fully developed at the time of initial plan approval.
(h)
Federal program change
is a change made to a State plan when OSHA determines that an alteration in the Federal program could render a State program less effective than OSHA's if it is not similarly modified.
(i)
Evaluation change
is a change made to a State plan when evaluations of a State program show that some substantive aspect of a State plan has an adverse impact on the implementation of the State's program and needs revision.
(j)
State-initiated change
is a change made to a State plan which is undertaken at a State's option and is not necessitated by Federal requirements.
§ 1953.3
General policies and procedures.
(a)
Effectiveness of State plan changes under State law.
Federal OSHA approval of a State plan under section 18(b) of the OSH Act in effect removes the barrier of Federal preemption, and permits the State to adopt and enforce State standards and other requirements regarding occupational safety or health issues regulated by OSHA. A State with an approved plan may modify or supplement the requirements contained in its plan, and may implement such requirements under State law, without prior approval of the plan change by Federal OSHA. Changes to approved State plans are subject to subsequent OSHA review. If OSHA finds reason to reject a State plan change, and this determination is upheld after an adjudicatory proceeding, the plan change would then be excluded from the State's Federally-approved plan.
(b)
Required State plan notifications and supplements.
Whenever a State makes a change to its legislation, regulations, standards, or major changes to policies or procedures, which affect the operation of the State plan, the State shall provide written notification to OSHA. When the change differs from a
corresponding Federal program component, the State shall submit a formal, written plan supplement. When the State adopts a provision which is identical to a corresponding Federal provision, written notification, but no formal plan supplement, is required. However, the State is expected to maintain the necessary underlying State document (e.g., legislation or standard) and to make it available for review upon request. All plan change supplements or required documentation must be submitted within 60 days of adoption of the change. Submission of all notifications and supplements may be in electronic format.
(c)
Plan supplement availability.
The underlying documentation for identical plan changes shall be maintained by the State. Annually, States shall submit updated copies of the principal documents comprising the plan, or appropriate page changes, to the extent that these documents have been revised. To the extent possible, plan documents will be maintained and submitted by the State in electronic format and also made available in such manner.
(d)
Advisory opinions.
Upon State request, OSHA may issue an advisory opinion on the approvability of a proposed change which differs from the Federal program prior to promulgation or adoption by the State and submission as a formal supplement.
(e)
Alternative procedures.
Upon reasonable notice to interested persons, the Assistant Secretary may prescribe additional or alternative procedures in order to expedite the review process or for any other good cause which may be consistent with the applicable laws.
[67 FR 60125, Sept. 25, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 49908, Aug. 18, 2015]
§ 1953.4
Submission of plan supplements.
(a)
Developmental changes.
(1) Sections 1902.2(b) and 1956.2(b) of this chapter require that each State with a developmental plan must set forth in its plan, as developmental steps, those changes which must be made to its initially-approved plan for its program to be at least as effective as the Federal program and a timetable for making these changes. The State must notify OSHA of a developmental change when it completes a developmental step or fails to meet any developmental step.
(2) If the completion of a developmental step is the adoption of a program component which is identical to the Federal program component, the State need only submit documentation, such as the cover page of an implementing directive or a notice of promulgation, that it has adopted the program component, within 60 days of adoption of the change, but must make the underlying documentation available for Federal and public review upon request.
(3) If the completion of a developmental step involves the adoption of policies or procedures which differ from the Federal program, the State must submit one copy of the required plan supplement within 60 days of adoption of the change.
(4) When a developmental step is missed, the State must submit a supplement which documents the impact on the program of the failure to complete the developmental step, an explanation of why the step was not completed on time and a revised timetable with a new completion date (generally not to exceed 90 days) and any other actions necessary to ensure completion. Where the State has an operational status agreement with OSHA under § 1954.3 of this Chapter, the State must provide an assurance that the missed step will not affect the effectiveness of State enforcement in any issues for which the State program has been deemed to be operational.
(5) If the State fails to submit the required documentation or supplement, as provided in § 1953.4(a)(2), (3) or (4), when the developmental step is scheduled for completion, OSHA shall notify the State that documentation or a supplement is required and set a timetable for submission of any required documentation or supplement, generally not to exceed 60 days.
(b)
Federal Program changes.
(1) When a significant change in the Federal program would have an adverse impact on the “at least as effective” status of the State program if a parallel State program modification were not made, State adoption of a change in response to the Federal program change shall be
required. A Federal program change that would not result in any diminution of the effectiveness of a State plan compared to Federal OSHA generally would not require adoption by the State.
(2) Examples of significant changes to the Federal program that would normally require a State response would include a change in the Act, promulgation or revision of OSHA standards or regulations, or changes in policy or procedure of national importance. A Federal program change that only establishes procedures necessary to implement a new or established policy, standard or regulation does not require a State response, although the State would be expected to establish policies and procedures which are “at least as effective,” which must be available for review on request.
(3) When there is a change in the Federal program which requires State action, OSHA shall advise the States. This notification shall also contain a date by which States must adopt a corresponding change or submit a statement why a program change is not necessary. This date will generally be six months from the date of notification, except where the Assistant Secretary determines that the nature or scope of the change requires a different time frame, for example, a change requiring legislative action where a State has a biennial legislature or a policy of major national implications requiring a shorter implementing time frame. State notification of intent may be required prior to adoption.
(4) If the State change is different from the Federal program change, the State shall submit one copy of the required supplement within 60 days of State adoption. The supplement shall contain a copy of the relevant legislation, regulation, policy or procedure and documentation on how the change maintains the “at least as effective as” status of the plan.
(5) If the State adopts a change identical to the Federal program change, the State is not required to submit a supplement. However, the State shall provide documentation that it has adopted the change, such as the cover page of an implementing directive or a notice of promulgation, within 60 days of State adoption.
(6) The State may demonstrate why a program change is not necessary because the State program is already the same as or at least as effective as the Federal program change. Such submissions will require review and approval as set forth in § 1953.6.
(7) Where there is a change in the Federal program which does not require State action but is of sufficient national interest to warrant indication of State intent, the State may be required to provide such notification within a specified time frame.
(c)
Evaluation changes.
(1) Special and periodic evaluations of a State program by OSHA in cooperation with the State may show that some portion of a State plan has an adverse impact on the effectiveness of the State program and accordingly requires modification to the State's underlying legislation, regulations, policy or procedures as an evaluation change. For example, OSHA could find that additional legislative or regulatory authority may be necessary to effectively pursue the State's right of entry into workplaces, or to assure various employer rights.
(2) OSHA shall advise the State of any evaluation findings that require a change to the State plan and the reasons supporting this decision. This notification shall also contain a date by which the State must accomplish this change and submit either the change supplement or a timetable for its accomplishment and interim steps to assure continued program effectiveness, documentation of adoption of a program component identical to the Federal program component, or, as explained in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, a statement demonstrating why a program change is not necessary.
(3) If the State adopts a program component which differs from a corresponding Federal program component, the State shall submit one copy of a required supplement within 60 days of adoption of the change. The supplement shall contain a copy of the relevant legislation, regulation, policy or procedure and documentation on how the change maintains the “at least as effective as” status of the plan.
(4) If the State adopts a program component identical to a Federal program component, submission of a supplement is not required. However, the State shall provide documentation that it has adopted the change, such as the cover page of an implementing directive or a notice of promulgation, within 60 days of adoption of the change and shall retain all other documentation within the State available for review upon request.
(5) The State may demonstrate why a program change is not necessary because the State program is meeting the requirements for an “at least as effective” program. Such submission will require review and approval as set forth in § 1953.6.
(d)
State-initiated changes.
(1) A State-initiated change is any change to the State plan which is undertaken at a State's option and is not necessitated by Federal requirements. State-initiated changes may include legislative, regulatory, administrative, policy or procedural changes which impact on the effectiveness of the State program.
(2) A State-initiated change supplement is required whenever the State takes an action not otherwise covered by this part that would impact on the effectiveness of the State program. The State shall notify OSHA as soon as it becomes aware of any change which could affect the State's ability to meet the approval criteria in parts 1902 and 1956 of this chapter, e.g., changes to the State's legislation, and submit a supplement within 60 days. Other State initiated supplements must be submitted within 60 days after the change occurred. The State supplement shall contain a copy of the relevant legislation, regulation, policy or procedure and documentation on how the change maintains the “at least as effective as” status of the plan. If the State fails to notify OSHA of the change or fails to submit the required supplement within the specified time period, OSHA shall notify the State that a supplement is required and set a time period for submission of the supplement, generally not to exceed 30 days.
§ 1953.5
Special provisions for standards changes.
(a)
Permanent standards.
(1) Where a Federal program change is a new permanent standard, or a more stringent amendment to an existing permanent standard, the State shall promulgate a State standard adopting such new Federal standard, or more stringent amendment to an existing Federal standard, or an at least as effective equivalent thereof, within six months of the date of promulgation of the new Federal standard or more stringent amendment. The State may demonstrate that a standard change is not necessary because the State standard is already the same as or at least as effective as the Federal standard change. In order to avoid delays in worker protection, the effective date of the State standard and any of its delayed provisions must be the date of State promulgation or the Federal effective date whichever is later. The Assistant Secretary may permit a longer time period if the State makes a timely demonstration that good cause exists for extending the time limitation. State permanent standards adopted in response to a new or revised Federal standard shall be submitted as a State plan supplement within 60 days of State promulgation in accordance with § 1953.4(b), Federal Program changes.
(2) Because a State may include standards and standards provisions in addition to Federal standards within an issue covered by an approved plan, it would generally be unnecessary for a State to revoke a standard when the comparable Federal standard is revoked or made less stringent. If the State does not adopt the Federal action, it need only provide notification of its intent to retain the existing State standard to OSHA within 6 months of the Federal promulgation date. If the State adopts a change to its standard parallel to the Federal action, it shall submit the appropriate documentation as provided in §§ 1953.4(b)(3) or (4)—Federal program changes. However, in the case of standards applicable to products used or distributed in interstate commerce where
section 18(c)(2) of the Act imposes certain restrictions on State plan authority, the modification, revision, or revocation of the Federal standard may necessitate the modification, revision, or revocation of the comparable State standard unless the State standard is required by compelling local conditions and does not unduly burden interstate commerce.
(3) Where a State on its own initiative adopts a permanent State standard for which there is no Federal parallel, the State shall submit it within 60 days of State promulgation in accordance with § 1953.4(d)—State-initiated changes,
(b)
Emergency temporary standards.
(1) Immediately upon publication of an emergency temporary standard in the
Federal Register,
OSHA shall advise the States of the standard and that a Federal program change supplement shall be required. This notification must also provide that the State has 30 days after the date of promulgation of the Federal standard to adopt a State emergency temporary standard if the State plan covers that issue. The State may demonstrate that promulgation of an emergency temporary standard is not necessary because the State standard is already the same as or at least as effective as the Federal standard change. The State standard must remain in effect for the duration of the Federal emergency temporary standard which may not exceed six (6) months.
(2) Within 15 days after receipt of the notice of a Federal emergency temporary standard, the State shall advise OSHA of the action it will take. State standards shall be submitted in accordance with the applicable procedures in § 1953.4(b)—Federal Program Changes, except that the required documentation or plan supplement must be submitted within 5 days of State promulgation.
(3) If for any reason, a State on its own initiative adopts a State emergency temporary standard, it shall be submitted as a plan supplement in accordance with § 1953.4(c), but within 10 days of promulgation.
§ 1953.6
Review and approval of plan supplements.
(a) OSHA shall review a supplement to determine whether it is at least as effective as the Federal program and meets the criteria in the Act and implementing regulations and the assurances in the State plan. If the review reveals any defect in the supplement, or if more information is needed, OSHA shall offer assistance to the State and shall provide the State an opportunity to clarify or correct the change.
(b) If upon review, OSHA determines that the differences from a corresponding Federal component are purely editorial and do not change the substance of the policy or requirements on employers, it shall deem the change identical. This includes “plain language” rewrites of new Federal standards or previously approved State standards which do not change the meaning or requirements of the standard. OSHA will inform the State of this determination. No further review or
Federal Register
publication is required.
(c) Federal OSHA may seek public comment during its review of plan supplements. Generally, OSHA will seek public comment if a State program component differs significantly from the comparable Federal program component and OSHA needs additional information on its compliance with the criteria in section 18(c) of the Act, including whether it is at least as effective as the Federal program and in the case of a standard applicable to products used or distributed in interstate commerce, whether it is required by compelling local conditions or unduly burdens interstate commerce under section 18(c)(2) of the Act.
(d) If the plan change meets the approval criteria, OSHA shall approve it and shall thereafter publish a
Federal Register
notice announcing the approval. OSHA reserves the right to reconsider its decision should subsequent information be brought to its attention.
(e) If a State fails to submit a required supplement or if examination discloses cause for rejecting a submitted supplement, OSHA shall provide the State a reasonable time, generally
not to exceed 30 days, to submit a revised supplement or to show cause why a proceeding should not be commenced either for rejection of the supplement or for failure to adopt the change in accordance with the procedures in § 1902.17 or Part 1955 of this chapter.
Pt. 1954

# PART 1954—PROCEDURES FOR THE EVALUATION AND MONITORING OF APPROVED STATE PLANS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1954.1
Purpose and scope.
1954.2
Monitoring system.
1954.3
Exercise of Federal discretionary authority.

# Subpart B—State Monitoring Reports and Visits to State Agencies
1954.10
Reports from the States.
1954.11
Visits to State agencies.

# Subpart C—Complaints About State Program Administration (CASPA)
1954.20
Complaints about State program administration.
1954.21
Processing and investigating a complaint.
1954.22
Notice provided by State.

# Authority:
Sec. 18, 84 Stat. 1608 (29 U.S.C. 667); Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1-2012 (77 FR 3912, Jan. 25, 2012).

# Source:
39 FR 1838, Jan. 15, 1974, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1954.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) Section 18(f) of the Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) provides that “the Secretary shall, on the basis of reports submitted by the State agency and his own inspections make a continuing evaluation of the manner in which each State having a plan approved * * * is carrying out such plan.”
(b) This part 1954 applies to the provisions of section 18(f) of the Act relating to the evaluation of approved plans for the development and enforcement of State occupational safety and health standards. The provisions of this part 1954 set forth the policies and procedures by which the Assistant Secretary for Occupational Safety and Health (hereinafter referred to as the Assistant Secretary) under a delegation of authority from the Secretary of Labor (Secretary's Order 12-71, 36 FR 8754, May 12, 1971) will continually monitor and evaluate the operation and administration of approved State plans.
(c) Following approval of a State plan under section 18(c) of the Act, workplaces in the State are subject to a period of concurrent Federal and State authority. The period of concurrent enforcement authority must last for at least three years. Before ending Federal enforcement authority, the Assistant Secretary is required to make a determination as to whether the State plan, in actual operation, is meeting the criteria in section 18(c) of the Act including the requirements in part 1902 of this chapter and the assurances in the approval plan itself. After an affirmative determination has been made, the provisions of sections 5(a)(2), 8 (except for the purpose of carrying out section 18(f) of the Act), 9, 10, 13, and 17 of the Act shall not apply with respect to any occupational safety or health issues covered under the plan. The Assistant Secretary may, however, retain jurisdiction under the above provisions in any proceeding commenced under section 9 or 10 of the Act before the date of the determination under section 18(e) of the Act.
(d) During this period of concurrent Federal and State authority, the operation and administration of the plan will be continually evaluated under section 18(f) of the Act. This evaluation will continue even after an affirmative determination has been made under section 18(e) of the Act.
§ 1954.2
Monitoring system.
(a) To carry out the responsibilities for continuing evaluation of State plans under section 18(f) of the Act, the Assistant Secretary has established a State Program Performance Monitoring System. Evaluation under this monitoring system encompasses both the period before and after a determination has been made under section 18(e) of the Act. The monitoring system is a three phased system designed to assure not only that developmental
steps are completed and that the operational plan is, in fact, at least as effective as the Federal program with respect to standards and enforcement, but also to provide a method for continuing review of the implementation of the plan and any modifications thereto to assure compliance with the provisions of the plan during the time the State participates in the cooperative Federal-State program.
(b) Phase I of the system begins with the initial approval of a State plan and continues until the determination required by section 18(e) of the Act is made. During Phase I, the Assistant Secretary will secure monitoring data to make the following key decisions:
(1) What should be the level of Federal enforcement;
(2) Should plan approval be continued; and
(3) What level of technical assistance is needed by the State to enable it to have an effective program.
(c) Phase II of the system relates to the determination required by section 18(e) of the Act. The Assistant Secretary must decide, after no less than three years following approval of the plan, whether or not to relinquish Federal authority to the State for issues covered by the occupational safety and health program in the State plan. Phase II will be a comprehensive evaluation of the total State program, drawing upon all information collected during Phase I.
(d) Phase III of the system begins after an affirmative determination has been made under section 18(e) of the Act. The continuing evaluation responsibility will be exercised under Phase III, and will provide data concerning the total operations of a State program to enable the Assistant Secretary to determine whether or not the plan approval should be continued or withdrawn.
(e) The State program performance monitoring system provides for, but is not limited to, the following major data inputs:
(1) Quarterly and annual reports of State program activity;
(2) Visits to State agencies;
(3) On-the-job evaluation of State compliance officers; and
(4) Investigation of complaints about State program administration.
§ 1954.3
Exercise of Federal discretionary authority.
(a)(1) When a State plan is approved under section 18(c) of the Act, Federal authority for enforcement of standards continues in accordance with section 18(e) of the Act. That section prescribes a period of concurrent Federal-State enforcement authority which must last for at least three years, after which time the Assistant Secretary shall make a determination whether, based on actual operations, the State plan meets all the criteria set forth in section 18(c) of the Act and the implementing regulations in 29 CFR part 1902 and subpart A of 29 CFR part 1952. During this period of concurrent authority, the Assistant Secretary may, but shall not be required to, exercise his authority under sections 5(a)(2), 8, 9, 10, 13 and 17 of the Act with respect to standards promulgated under section 6 of the Act where the State has comparable standards. Accordingly, section 18(e) authorizes, but does not require, the Assistant Secretary to exercise his discretionary enforcement authority over all the issues covered by a State plan for the entire 18(e) period.
(2) Existing regulations at 29 CFR part 1902 set forth factors to be considered in determining how Federal enforcement authority should be exercised. These factors include:
(i) Whether the plan is developmental or complete;
(ii) Results of evaluations conducted by the Assistant Secretary;
(iii) The State's schedule for meeting Federal standards; and
(iv) Any other relevant matters.
(29 CFR 1902.1(c)(2) and 1902.20(b)(1)(iii).
(3) Other relevant matters requiring consideration in the decision as to the level of Federal enforcement include:
(i) Coordinated utilization of Federal and State resources to provide effective worker protection throughout the Nation;
(ii) Necessity for clarifying the rights and responsibilities of employers and employees with respect to Federal and State authority;
(iii) Increasing responsibility for administration and enforcement by
States under an approved plan for evaluation of their effectiveness; and
(iv) The need to react promptly to any failure of the States in providing effective enforcement of standards.
(b)
Guidelines for determining the appropriate level of Federal enforcement.
In light of the requirements of 29 CFR part 1902 as well as the factors mentioned in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the following guidelines for the extent of the exercise of discretionary Federal authority have been determined to be reasonable and appropriate. When a State plan meets all of these guidelines it will be considered operational, and the State will conduct all enforcement activity including inspections in response to employee complaints, in all issues where the State is operational. Federal enforcement activity will be reduced accordingly and the emphasis will be placed on monitoring State activity in accordance with the provisions of this part.
(1)
Enabling legislation.
A State with an approved plan must have enacted enabling legislation substantially in conformance with the requirements of section 18(c) and 29 CFR part 1902 in order to be considered operational. This legislation must have been reviewed and approved under 29 CFR part 1902. States without such legislation, or where State legislation as enacted requires substantial amendments to meet the requirements of 29 CFR part 1902, will not be considered operational.
(2) Approved State standards. The State must have standards promulgated under State law which are identical to Federal standards; or have been found to be at least as effective as the comparable Federal standards; or have been reviewed by OSHA and found to provide overall protection equal to comparable Federal standards. Review of the effectiveness of State standards and their enforcement will be a continuing function of the evaluation process. Where State standards in an issue have not been promulgated by the State or have been promulgated and found not to provide overall protection equal to comparable Federal standards, the State will not be considered operational as to those issues.
(3)
Personnel.
The State must have a sufficient number of qualified personnel who are enforcing the standards in accordance with the State's enabling legislation. Where a State lacks the qualified personnel to enforce in a particular issue; e.g., Occupational Health, the State will not be considered operational as to that issue even though it has enabling legislation and standards.
(4)
Review of enforcement actions.
Provisions for review of State citations and penalties, including the appointment of the reviewing authority and the promulgation of implementing regulations, must be in effect.
(c)(1)
Evaluation reports.
One of the factors to consider in determining the level of Federal enforcement is the result of evaluations conducted under the monitoring system described in this part. While completion of an initial comprehensive evaluation of State operations is not generally a prerequisite for a determination that a State is operational under paragraph (b) of this section, such evaluations will be used in determining the Federal enforcement responsibility in certain circumstances.
(2) Where evaluations have been completed prior to the time a determination as to the operational status of a State plan is made, the results of those evaluations will be included in the determination.
(3) Where the results of one or more evaluations conducted during the operation of a State plan and prior to an 18(e) determination reveal that actual operations as to one or more aspects of the plan fail in a substantial manner to be at least as effective as the Federal program, and the State does not adequately resolve the deficiencies in accordance with subpart C of part 1953, the appropriate level of Federal enforcement activity shall be reinstated. An example of such deficiency would be a finding that State standards and their enforcement in an issue are not at least as effective as comparable Federal standards and their enforcement. Federal enforcement activity may also be reinstated where the Assistant Secretary determines that such action is necessary to assure occupational safety and health protection to employees.
(d)(1)
Recognition of State procedures.
In order to resolve potential conflicting responsibilities of employers
and employees, Federal authority will be exercised in a manner designed to recognize the implementation of State procedures in accordance with approved plans in areas such as variances, informing employees of their rights and obligations, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(i) Subject to pertinent findings of effectiveness under this part, Federal enforcement proceedings will not be initiated where an employer is in compliance with a State standard which has been found to be at least as effective as the comparable Federal standard, or with any temporary or permanent variance granted to such employer with regard to the employment or place of employment from such State standard, or any order or interim order in connection therewith, or any modification or extension thereof:
Provided
such variance action was taken under the terms and procedures required under § 1902.4(b)(2)(iv) of this chapter, and the employer has certified that he has not filed for such variance on the same set of facts with the Assistant Secretary.
(ii) Subject to pertinent findings of effectiveness under this part, and approval under part 1953 of this chapter, Federal enforcement proceedings will not be initiated where an employer has posted the approved State poster in accordance with the applicable provisions of an approved State plan and § 1902.9 of this chapter.
(iii) Subject to pertinent findings of effectiveness under this part, and approval under part 1953 of this chapter, Federal enforcement proceedings will not be initiated where an employer is in compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of an approved State plan as provided in § 1902.7 of this chapter.
(2) [Reserved]
(e)
Discrimination complaints.
State plan provisions on employee discrimination do not divest the Secretary of Labor of any authority under section 11(c) of the Act. The Federal authority to investigate discrimination complaints exists even after an affirmative 18(e) determination. (See South Carolina decision 37 FR 25932, December 6, 1972). Employee complaints alleging discrimination under section 11(c) of the Act will be subject to Federal jurisdiction.
(f)(1)
Procedural agreements.
A determination as to the operational status of a State plan shall be accompanied by an agreement with the State setting forth the Federal-State responsibilities as follows:
(i) Scope of the State's operational status including the issues excluded from the plan, the issues where State enforcement will not be operational at the time of the agreement and the dates for commencement of operations;
(ii) Procedures for referral, investigation and enforcement of employee requests for inspections;
(iii) Procedures for reporting fatalities and catastrophes by the agency which has received the report to the responsible enforcing authority both where the State has and has not adopted the requirement that employers report as provided in 29 CFR 1904.8;
(iv) Specifications as to when and by what means the operational guidelines of this section were met; and
(v) Provision for resumption of Federal enforcement activity for failure to substantially comply with this agreement, or as a result of evaluation or other relevant factors.
(2) Upon approval of these agreements, the Assistant Secretary shall cause to be published in the
Federal Register,
notice of the operational status of each approved State plan.
(3) Where subsequent changes in the level of Federal enforcement are made, similar
Federal Register
notices shall be published.
[39 FR 22126, June 20, 1974, as amended at 39 FR 29182, Aug. 14, 1974; 39 FR 39036, Nov. 5, 1974; 40 FR 25450, June 16, 1975; 67 FR 60129, Sept. 25, 2002; 80 FR 49908, Aug. 18, 2015]

# Subpart B—State Monitoring Reports and Visits to State Agencies
§ 1954.10
Reports from the States.
(a) In addition to any other reports required by the Assistant Secretary under sections 18(c)(8) and 18(f) of the Act and § 1902.3(1) of this chapter, the
State shall submit quarterly and annual reports as part of the evaluation and monitoring of State programs.
1
1
Such quarterly and annual reports forms may be obtained from the Office of the Assistant Regional Director in whose Region the State is located.
(b) Each State with an approved State plan shall submit to the appropriate Regional Office an annual occupational safety and health report in the form and detail provided for in the report and the instructions contained therein.
(c) Each State with an approved State plan shall submit to the appropriate Regional Office a quarterly occupational safety and health compliance and standards activity report in the form and detail provided for in the report and the instructions contained therein.
§ 1954.11
Visits to State agencies.
As a part of the continuing monitoring and evaluation process, the Assistant Secretary or his representative shall conduct visits to the designated agency or agencies of State with approved plans at least every 6 months. An opportunity may also be provided for discussion and comments on the effectiveness of the State plan from other interested persons. These visits will be scheduled as needed. Periodic audits will be conducted to assess the progress of the overall State program in meeting the goal of becoming at least as effective as the Federal program. These audits will include case file review and follow-up inspections of workplaces.

# Subpart C—Complaints About State Program Administration (CASPA)
§ 1954.20
Complaints about State program administration.
(a) Any interested person or representative of such person or groups of persons may submit a complaint concerning the operation or administration of any aspect of a State plan. The complaint may be submitted orally or in writing to the Assistant Regional Director for Occupational Safety and Health (hereinafter referred to as the Assistant Regional Director) or his representative in the Region where the State is located.
(b) Any such complaint should describe the grounds for the complaint and specify the aspect or aspects of the administration or operation of the plan which is believed to be inadequate. A pattern of delays in processing cases, of inadequate workplace inspections, or the granting of variances without regard to the specifications in the State plans, are examples.
(c)(1) If upon receipt of the complaint, the Assistant Regional Director determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that an investigation should be made, he shall cause such investigation, including any workplace inspection, to be made as soon as practicable.
(2) In determining whether an investigation shall be conducted and in determining the timing of such investigation, the Assistant Regional Director shall consider such factors as:
(i) The extent to which the complaint affects any substantial number of persons;
(ii) The number of complaints received on the same or similar issues and whether the complaints relate to safety and health conditions at a particular establishment;
(iii) Whether the complainant has exhausted applicable State remedies; and
(iv) The extent to which the subject matter of the complaint is pertinent to the effectuation of Federal policy.
§ 1954.21
Processing and investigating a complaint.
(a) Upon receipt of a complaint about State program administration, the Assistant Regional Director will acknowledge its receipt and may forward a copy of the complaint to the designee under the State plan and to such other person as may be necessary to complete the investigation. The complainant's name and the names of other complainants mentioned therein will be deleted from the complaint and the names shall not appear in any record published, released or made available.
(b) In conducting the investigation, the Assistant Regional Director may obtain such supporting information as is appropriate to the complaint.
Sources for this additional information may include “spot-check” follow-up inspections of workplaces, review of the relevant State files, and discussion with members of the public, employers, employees and the State.
(c) On the basis of the information obtained through the investigation, the Assistant Regional Director shall advise the complainant of the investigation findings and in general terms, any corrective action that may result. A copy of such notification shall be sent to the State and it shall be considered part of the evaluation of the State plan.
(d) If the Assistant Regional Director determines that there are no reasonable grounds for an investigation to be made with respect to a complaint under this Subpart, he shall notify the complaining party in writing of such determination. Upon request of the complainant, or the State, the Assistant Regional Director, at his discretion, may hold an informal conference. After considering all written and oral views presented the Assistant Regional Director shall affirm, modify, or reverse his original determination and furnish the complainant with written notification of his decision and the reasons therefore. Where appropriate the State may also receive such notification.
§ 1954.22
Notice provided by State.
(a)(1) In order to assure that employees, employers, and members of the public are informed of the procedures for complaints about State program administration, each State with an approved State plan shall adopt not later than July 1, 1974, a procedure not inconsistent with these regulations or the Act, for notifying employees, employers and the public of their right to complain to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration about State program administration.
(2) Such notification may be by posting of notices in the workplace as part of the requirement in § 1902.4(c)(2)(iv) of this chapter and other appropriate sources of information calculated to reach the public.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 1955

# PART 1955—PROCEDURES FOR WITHDRAWAL OF APPROVAL OF STATE PLANS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1955.1
Purpose and scope.
1955.2
Definitions.
1955.3
General policy.
1955.4
Effect of withdrawal of approval.
1955.5
Petitions for withdrawal of approval.

# Subpart B—Notice of Formal Proceeding
1955.10
Publication of notice of formal proceeding.
1955.11
Contents of notice of formal proceeding.
1955.12
Administrative law judge; powers and duties.
1955.13
Disqualification.
1955.14
Ex parte communications.
1955.15
Manner of service and filing.
1955.16
Time.
1955.17
Determination of parties.
1955.18
Provision for written comments.

# Subpart C—Consent Findings and Summary Decisions
1955.20
Consent findings and orders.
1955.21
Motion for a summary decision.
1955.22
Summary decision.

# Subpart D—Preliminary Conference and Discovery
1955.30
Submission of documentary evidence.
1955.31
Preliminary conference.
1955.32
Discovery.
1955.33
Sanctions for failure to comply with orders.
1955.34
Fees of witnesses.

# Subpart E—Hearing and Decision
1955.40
Hearings.
1955.41
Decision of the administrative law judge.
1955.42
Exceptions.
1955.43
Transmission of the record.
1955.44
Final decision.
1955.45
Effect of appeal of administrative law judge's decision.
1955.46
Finality for purposes of judicial review.
1955.47
Judicial review.

# Authority:
Secs. 8 and 18, 84 Stat. 1608 (29 U.S.C. 657, 667); Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1-2012 (77 FR 3912, Jan. 25, 2012).

# Source:
40 FR 23467, May 30, 1975, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1955.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part contains rules of practice and procedure for formal administrative proceedings on the withdrawal of initial or final approval of State plans in accordance with section 18(f) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 667).
(b) These rules shall be construed to secure a prompt and just conclusion of the proceedings subject thereto.
§ 1955.2
Definitions.
(a) As used in this part unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
(1)
Act
means the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970;
(2)
Assistant Secretary
means Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health;
(3)
Commencement of a case
under section 18(f) of the Act means, for the purpose of determining State jurisdiction following a final decision withdrawing approval of a plan, the issuance of a citation.
(4)
Developmental step
includes, but is not limited to, those items listed in the published developmental schedule, or any revisions thereto, for each plan. A developmental step also includes those items in the plan as approved under section 18(c) of the Act, as well as those items in the approval decision which are subject to evaluations (see e.g., approval of Michigan plan), which were deemed necessary to make the State program at least as effective as the Federal program within the 3 year developmental period. (See part 1953 of this chapter.)
(5)
Final approval
means approval of the State plan, or any modification thereof under section 18(e) of the Act and subpart D of 29 CFR part 1902.
(6)
Initial approval
means approval of a State plan, or any modification thereof under section 18(c) of the Act and subpart C of 29 CFR part 1902;
(7)
Party
includes the State agency or agencies designated to administer and enforce the State plan that is the subject of withdrawal proceedings, the Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (hereinafter called OSHA), represented by the Office of the Solicitor and any person participating in the proceedings pursuant to § 1955.17;
(8)
Person
means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, business trust, legal representative, an organized group of individuals, or an agency, authority, or instrumentality of the United States or of a State;
(9)
Secretary
means Secretary of Labor;
(10)
Separable portion of a plan
for purposes of withdrawal of approval generally means an issue as defined in 29 CFR 1902.2(c),
i.e.
, “an industrial, occupational or hazard grouping which is at least as comprehensive as a corresponding grouping contained in (i) one or more sections in subpart B or R of part 1910 of this chapter, or (ii) one or more of the remaining subparts of part 1910”:
Provided,
That wherever the Assistant Secretary has determined that other industrial, occupational or hazard groupings are administratively practicable, such groupings shall be considered separable portions of a plan.
(b) [Reserved]
[40 FR 23467, May 30, 1975, as amended at 67 FR 60129, Sept. 25, 2002; 80 FR 49908, Aug. 18, 2015]
§ 1955.3
General policy.
(a) The following circumstances shall be cause for initiation of proceedings under this part for withdrawal of approval of a State plan, or any portion thereof.
(1) Whenever the Assistant Secretary determines that under § 1902.2(b) of this chapter a State has not substantially completed the developmental steps of its plan at the end of three years from the date of commencement of operations, a withdrawal proceeding shall be instituted. Examples of a lack of substantial completion of developmental steps include but are not limited to the following:
(i) A failure to develop the necessary regulations and administrative guidelines for an “at least as effective” enforcement program;
(ii) Failure to promulgate all or a majority of the occupational safety and health standards in an issue covered by the plan; or
(iii) Failure to enact the required enabling legislation.
(2) Whenever the Assistant Secretary determines that there is no longer a reasonable expectation that a State plan will meet the criteria of § 1902.3 of this chapter involving the completion of developmental steps within the three year period immediately following commencement of operations, a withdrawal proceeding shall be instituted. Examples of a lack of reasonable expectation include but are not limited to the following:
(i) A failure to enact enabling legislation in the first two years following commencement of operations where the remaining developmental steps are dependent on the passage of enabling legislation and cannot be completed within one year; or
(ii) Repeal or substantial amendment of the enabling legislation by the State legislature so that the State program fails to meet the criteria in § 1902.3 of this chapter; or
(iii) Inability to complete the developmental steps within the indicated three year period.
(3) Whenever the Assistant Secretary determines that in the operation or administration of a State plan, or as a result of any modifications to a plan, there is a failure to comply substantially with any provision of the plan, including assurances contained in the plan, a withdrawal proceeding shall be instituted in a State which has received final approval under section 18(e) of the Act, and may be instituted in a State which has received initial approval under section 18(c) of the Act. Examples of a lack of substantial compliance include but are not limited to the following:
(i) Where a State over a period of time consistently fails to provide effective enforcement of standards;
(ii) Where the rights of employees are circumscribed in such a manner as to diminish the effectiveness of the program;
(iii) Where a State, without good cause, fails to continue to maintain its program in accordance with the appropriate changes in the Federal program;
(iv) Where a State fails to comply with the required assurances on a sufficient number of qualified personnel and/or adequate resources for administration and enforcement of the program; or
(v) Where, on the basis of actual operations, the Assistant Secretary determines that the criteria in section 18(c) of the Act are not being met, that the period of concurrent authority under section 18(e) of the Act should not be extended, and that final approval under section 18(e) of the Act should not be given.
(b) A State may, at any time both before or after a determination under section 18(e) of the Act, voluntarily withdraw its plan, or any portion thereof, by notifying the Assistant Secretary in writing setting forth the reasons for such withdrawal. Such notification shall be accompanied by a letter terminating the application for related grants authorized under section 23(g) of the Act in accordance with 29 CFR 1951.25(d). Upon receipt of the State notice the Assistant Secretary shall cause to be published in the
Federal Register
a notice of withdrawal of approval of the State plan or portion thereof (see Montana notice 39 FR 2361, June 27, 1974).
(c) Approval of a portion of a plan may be withdrawn under any of the paragraphs in this section when it is determined that that portion is reasonably separable from the remainder of the plan in a manner consistent with the provisions in § 1902.2(c) of this chapter defining the scope of a State plan. As an example, such a partial withdrawal of approval would be considered appropriate where a State fails to adopt, without good cause shown, Federal standards within a separable issue, such as occupational health.
[40 FR 23467, May 30, 1975, as amended at 67 FR 60129, Sept. 25, 2002]
§ 1955.4
Effect of withdrawal of approval.
(a) After receipt of notice of withdrawal of approval of a State plan, such plan, or any part thereof, shall cease to be in effect and the provisions of the Federal Act shall apply within that State. But the State, in accordance with section 18(f) of the Act, may retain jurisdiction in any case commenced before receipt of the notice of withdrawal of approval of the plan, in order to enforce standards under the
plan, whenever the issues involved in the case or cases pending do not relate to the reasons for withdrawal of the plan.
(b) Such notice of withdrawal of approval shall operate constructively as notice of termination of all related grants authorized under section 23(g) of the Act in accordance with 29 CFR 1951.25(c).
§ 1955.5
Petitions for withdrawal of approval.
(a) At any time following the initial approval of a State plan under section 18(c) of the Act, any interested person may petition the Assistant Secretary in writing to initiate proceedings for withdrawal of approval of the plan under section 18(f) of the Act and this part. The petition shall contain a statement of the grounds for initiating a withdrawal proceeding, including facts to support the petition.
(b)(1) The Assistant Secretary may request the petitioner for additional facts and may take such other actions as are considered appropriate such as:
(i) Publishing the petition for public comment;
(ii) Holding informal discussion on the issues raised by the petition with the State and other persons affected; or
(iii) Holding an informal hearing in accordance with § 1902.13 of this chapter.
(2) Any such petition shall be considered and acted upon within a reasonable time. Prompt notice shall be given of the denial in whole or in part of any petition and the notice shall be accompanied by a brief statement of the grounds for the denial. A denial of a petition does not preclude future action on those issues or any other issues raised regarding a State plan.

# Subpart B—Notice of Formal Proceeding
§ 1955.10
Publication of notice of formal proceeding.
(a) The Assistant Secretary, prior to any notice of a formal proceeding under this subpart, shall by letter, provide the State with an opportunity to show cause within 45 days why a proceeding should not be instituted for withdrawal of approval of a plan or any portion thereof. When a State fails to show cause why a formal proceeding for withdrawal of approval should not be instituted, the State shall be deemed to have waived its right to a formal proceeding under paragraph (b) of this section and the Assistant Secretary shall cause to be published in the
Federal Register
a notice of withdrawal of approval of the State plan.
(b)(1) Whenever the Assistant Secretary, on the basis of a petition under § 1955.5 or on his own initiative, determines that approval of a State plan or any portion thereof should be withdrawn, and the State has not waived its right under § 1955.3(b) or paragraph (a) of this section to a formal proceeding, he shall publish a notice of proposed withdrawal in the
Federal Register
as set out in § 1955.11 and cause such notice, in the form of a complaint, to be served on the State in accordance with § 1955.15.
(2) Not later than 5 days following the publication of the notice in the
Federal Register,
the State agency shall publish, or cause to be published, within the State reasonable notice containing a summary of the information in the Federal notice, as well as the location or locations where a copy of the full notice is available for inspection and public copying.
(3) Two copies of such notice shall be served on the Assistant Secretary in accordance with § 1955.15.
(c) Not less than 30 days following publication of the notice in the
Federal Register,
the State shall submit a statement of those items in the notice which are being contested and a brief statement of the facts relied upon, including whether the use of witnesses is intended. This statement shall be served on the Assistant Secretary in accordance with § 1955.15. When a State fails to respond to the notice of proposed withdrawal under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the State shall be deemed to have waived its right to a formal proceeding and the Assistant Secretary shall cause to be published in the
Federal Register
a notice of withdrawal of approval.
§ 1955.11
Contents of notice of formal proceeding.
(a) A notice of a formal proceeding published under § 1955.10 shall include:
(1) A statement on the nature of the proceeding and addresses for filing all papers;
(2) The legal authority under which the proceeding is to be held;
(3) A description of the issues and the grounds for the Assistant Secretary's proposed withdrawal of approval;
(4) A specified period, generally not less than 30 days after publication of the notice in the
Federal Register,
for the State to submit a response to the statement of issues in the notice;
(5) A provision for designation of an administrative law judge under 5 U.S.C. 3105 to preside over the proceeding.
(b) A copy of the notice of the proceeding stating the basis for the Assistant Secretary's determination that approval of the plan, or any portion thereof, should be withdrawn shall be referred to the administrative law judge.
§ 1955.12
Administrative law judge; powers and duties.
(a) The administrative law judge appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105 and designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to preside over a proceeding shall have all powers necessary and appropriate to conduct a fair, full, and impartial proceeding, including the following:
(1) To administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) To rule upon offers of proof and receive relevant evidence;
(3) To provide for discovery, including the issuance of subpoenas authorized by section 8(b) of the Act and 5 U.S.C. 555(d) and 556(c)(2), and to determine the scope and time limits of the discovery;
(4) To regulate the course of the proceeding and the conduct of the parties and their counsel;
(5) To consider and rule upon procedural requests, e.g. motions for extension of time;
(6) To hold preliminary conferences for the settlement or simplification of issues;
(7) To take official notice of material facts not appearing in the evidence in the record in accordance with § 1955.40(c);
(8) To render an initial decision;
(9) To examine and cross-examine witnesses;
(10) To take any other appropriate action authorized by the Act, the implementing regulations, or the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 554-557 (hereinafter called the APA).
(b) On any procedural question not otherwise regulated by this part, the Act, or the APA, the administrative law judge shall be guided to the extent practicable by the pertinent provisions of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
§ 1955.13
Disqualification.
(a) If an administrative law judge deems himself disqualified to preside over a particular proceeding, he shall withdraw by notice on the record directed to the Chief Administrative Law Judge. Any party who deems an administrative law judge, for any reason, to be disqualified to preside, or to continue to preside, over a particular proceeding may file a motion to disqualify and remove the administrative law judge, provided the motion is filed prior to the time the administrative law judge files his decision. Such motion must be supported by affidavits setting forth the alleged ground for disqualification. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall rule upon the motion.
(b) Contumacious conduct at any proceeding before the administrative law judge shall be ground for summary exclusion from the proceeding. If a witness or party refuses to answer a question after being so directed, or refuses to obey an order to provide or permit discovery, the administrative law judge may make such orders with regard to the refusal as are just and proper, including the striking of all testimony previously given by such witness on related matters.
§ 1955.14
Ex parte communications.
(a) Except to the extent required for the disposition of
ex parte
matters, the administrative law judge shall not consult any interested person or party or their representative on any fact in
issue or on the merits of any matter before him except upon notice and opportunity for all parties to participate.
(b)(1) Written or oral communications from interested persons outside the Department of Labor involving any substantive or procedural issues in a proceeding directed to the administrative law judge, the Secretary of Labor, the Assistant Secretary, the Associate Assistant Secretary for Regional Programs, the Solicitor of Labor, or the Associate Solicitor for Occupational Safety and Health, or their staffs shall be deemed
ex parte
communications and are not to be considered part of any record or the basis for any official decision, unless the communication is made by motion to the administrative law judge and served upon all the parties.
(2) To facilitate implementation of this requirement, the above-mentioned offices shall keep a log of such communications which shall be made available to the public and which may, by motion, be entered into the record.
(c) No employee or agent of the Department of Labor engaged in the investigation or presentation of the withdrawal proceeding governed by this part shall participate or advise in the initial or final decision, except as a witness or counsel in the proceeding.
§ 1955.15
Manner of service and filing.
(a) Service of any document upon any party may be made by personal delivery of, or by mailing a copy of the document by certified mail, to the last known address of the party or his representative. The person serving the document shall certify to the manner and date of service.
(b) In addition to serving a copy of any documents upon the parties, the original and two copies of each document shall be filed with the administrative law judge. With respect to exhibits and transcripts, only originals or certified copies need be filed.
§ 1955.16
Time.
Computation of any period of time under these rules shall begin with the first business day following that on which the act, event or development initiating such period of time shall have occurred. When the last day of the period so computed is a Saturday, Sunday, or national holiday, or other day on which the Department of Labor is closed, the period shall run until the end of the next following business day. When such period of time is 7 days or less, each of the Saturdays, Sundays, and such holidays shall be excluded from the computation.
§ 1955.17
Determination of parties.
(a) The designated State agency or agencies and the Department of Labor, OSHA, shall be the initial parties to the proceedings. Other interested persons may, at the discretion of the administrative law judge, be granted the right to participate as parties if he determines that the final decision could substantially affect them or the class they represent or that they may contribute materially to the disposition of the proceedings.
(b)(1) Any person wishing to participate in any proceeding as a party under paragraph (a) of this section shall submit a petition to the administrative law judge within 30 days after the notice of such proceeding has been published in the
Federal Register.
The petition shall also be served upon the other parties. Such petition shall concisely state:
(i) Petitioner's interest in the proceeding;
(ii) How his participation as a party will contribute materially to the disposition of the proceeding;
(iii) Who will appear for petitioner;
(iv) The issue or issues as set out in the notice published under § 1955.10 of this part on which petitioner wishes to participate; and
(v) Whether petitioner intends to present witnesses.
(2) The administrative law judge shall, within 5 days of receipt of the petition, ascertain what objections, if any, there are to the petition. He shall then determine whether the petitioner is qualified in his judgment to be a party in the proceedings and shall permit or deny participation accordingly. The administrative law judge shall give each petitioner written notice of the decision on his petition promptly. If the petition is denied, the notice shall briefly state the grounds for denial. Persons whose petition for party
participation is denied may appeal the decision to the Secretary within 5 days of receipt of the notice of denial. The Secretary will make the final decision to grant or deny the petition no later than 20 days following receipt of the appeal.
(3) Where the petitions to participate as parties are made by individuals or groups with common interests, the administrative law judge may require all such petitioners to designate a single representative, or he may recognize one or more of such petitioners to represent all such petitioners.
§ 1955.18
Provision for written comments.
Any person who is not a party may submit a written statement of position with 4 copies to either the Assistant Secretary or the State at any time during the proceeding which statement shall be made available to all parties and may be introduced into evidence by a party. Mere statements of approval or opposition to the plan without any documentary support shall not be considered as falling within this provision.

# Subpart C—Consent Findings and Summary Decisions
§ 1955.20
Consent findings and orders.
(a)(1) At any time during the proceeding a reasonable opportunity may be afforded to permit negotiation by the parties of an agreement containing consent findings and a rule or order disposing of the whole or any part of the proceeding. The allowance of such opportunity and the duration thereof shall be in the discretion of the administrative law judge, after consideration of the requirements of section 18 of the Act, the nature of the proceeding, the requirements of the public interest, the representations of the parties, and the probability of an agreement which will result in a just disposition of the issues.
(2) Any agreement containing consent findings and a rule or order disposing of a proceeding shall also provide:
(i) That the rule or order shall have the same force and effect as if made after a full hearing;
(ii) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the administrative law judge and the Secretary; and
(iii) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the findings and of the rule or order made in accordance with the agreement.
(b)(1) On or before the expiration of the time granted for negotiations, the parties or their counsel may:
(i) Submit the proposed agreement to the administrative law judge for his consideration; or
(ii) Inform the administrative law judge that agreement cannot be reached.
(2) In the event an agreement containing consent findings and a rule or order is submitted within the time allowed therefor, the administrative law judge may accept such agreement by issuing his decision based upon the agreed findings. Such decision shall be published in the
Federal Register.
§ 1955.21
Motion for a summary decision.
(a)(1) Any party may move, with or without supporting affidavits, for a summary decision on all or any part of the proceeding. Any other party may, within 10 days after service of the motion, serve opposing affidavits or file a cross motion for summary decision. The administrative law judge may, in his discretion, set the matter for argument and call for submission of briefs. The filing of any documents under this section shall be with the administrative law judge and copies of any such document shall be served on all the parties.
(2) The administrative law judge may grant such motion if the pleadings, affidavits, material obtained by discovery or otherwise obtained, or matters officially noticed, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that a party is entitled to summary decision. Affidavits shall set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence in the hearing and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein. When a motion for summary decision is made and supported as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the party opposing the motion may not rest upon the mere allegations
or denials of his pleading; his response must set forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue of fact for the hearing.
(3) Should it appear from the affidavits of a party opposing the motion that he cannot, for reasons stated, present by affidavit facts essential to justify his opposition, the administrative law judge may refuse the application for summary decision or may order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained, or depositions to be taken, or discovery to be had, or may make such other order as is just.
(b)(1) The denial of all or any part of a motion or cross motion for summary decision by the administrative law judge shall not be subject to interlocutory appeal to the Secretary unless the administrative law judge certifies in writing:
(i) That the ruling involves an important question of law or policy as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion; and
(ii) That an immediate appeal from the ruling may materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding.
(2) The allowance of such an interlocutory appeal shall not stay the proceeding before the administrative law judge unless the Secretary so orders.
§ 1955.22
Summary decision.
(a)(1) Where no genuine issue of material fact is found to have been raised, the administrative law judge shall issue an initial decision to become final 30 days after service thereof upon each party unless, within those 30 days, any party has filed written exceptions to the decision with the Secretary. Requests for extension of time to file exceptions may be granted if the requests are received by the Secretary no later than 25 days after service of the decision.
(2) If any timely exceptions are filed, the Secretary may set a time for filing any response to the exceptions with supporting reasons. All exceptions and responses thereto shall be served on all the parties.
(b)(1) The Secretary, after consideration of the decision, the exceptions, and any supporting briefs filed therewith and any responses to the exceptions with supporting reasons, shall issue a final decision.
(2) An initial decision and a final decision under this section shall include a statement of:
(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law and the reasons and bases therefor on all issues presented;
(ii) Reference to any material fact based on official notice; and
(iii) The terms and conditions of the rule or order made.
The final decision shall be published in the
Federal Register
and served on all the parties.
(c) Where a genuine material question of fact is raised, the administrative law judge shall, and in any other case may, set the case for an evidentiary hearing. A notice of such hearing shall be published in the
Federal Register
at least 30 days prior to the hearing date.

# Subpart D—Preliminary Conference and Discovery
§ 1955.30
Submission of documentary evidence.
(a) Where there has been no consent finding or summary decision under subpart C of this part and a formal hearing is necessary, the administrative law judge shall set a date by which all documentary evidence, which is to be offered during the hearing, shall be submitted to the administrative law judge and served on the other parties. Such submission date shall be sufficiently in advance of the hearing as to permit study and preparation for cross-examination and rebuttal evidence. Documentary evidence not submitted in advance may be received into evidence upon a clear showing that the offering party had good cause for failure to produce the evidence sooner.
(b) The authenticity of all documents submitted in advance shall be deemed admitted unless written objections are filed prior to the hearing, except that a party will be permitted to challenge such authenticity at a later date upon clear showing of good cause for failure to have filed such written objections.
§ 1955.31
Preliminary conference.
(a) Upon his own motion, or the motion of a party, the administrative law judge may direct the parties to meet with him for a conference or conferences to consider:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to documents for purposes of clarification, simplification, or limitation;
(3) Stipulations of fact, and of the authenticity, of the contents of documents;
(4) Limitations on the number of parties and of witnesses;
(5) Scope of participation of petitioners under § 1955.17 of this part;
(6) Establishment of dates for discovery; and
(7) Such other matters as may tend to expedite the disposition of the proceedings, and to assure a just conclusion thereof.
(b) The administrative law judge shall enter an order which recites the action taken at the conference, the amendments allowed to any documents which have been filed, and the agreements made between the parties as to any of the matters considered. Such order shall limit the issues for hearing to those not disposed of by admissions or agreements, and control the subsequent course of the hearing, unless modified at the hearing to prevent manifest injustice.
§ 1955.32
Discovery.
(a)(1) At any time after the commencement of a proceeding under this part, but generally before the preliminary conference, if any, a party may request of any other party admissions that relate to statements or opinions of fact, or of the application of law to fact, including the genuineness of any document described in the request. Copies of documents shall be served with the request unless they have been or are otherwise furnished or made available for inspection or copying. The matter shall be deemed admitted unless within 30 days after service of the request, or within such shorter or longer time as the administrative law judge may prescribe, the party to whom the request is directed serves upon the party requesting the admission a specific written response.
(2) If objection is made, the reasons therefor shall be stated. The answer shall specifically deny the matter or set forth in detail the reasons why the answering party cannot truthfully admit or deny the matter. A denial shall fairly meet the substance of the requested admission and when good faith requires that a party qualify his answer or deny only a part of the matter on which an admission is requested, he shall specify so much of it as is true and qualify or deny the remainder. An answering party may not give lack of information or knowledge as the reason for failure to admit or deny unless he states that he has made reasonable inquiry and that the information known or readily obtainable by him is insufficient to enable him to admit or deny.
(3) The party who has requested the admission may move to determine the sufficiency of the answers or objections. Unless the administrative law judge determines that an objection is justified, he may order either that the matter is admitted or that an amended answer be served. The administrative law judge may, in lieu of these orders, determine that final disposition of the requests be made at a preliminary conference, or at a designated time prior to the hearing. Any matter admitted under this section is conclusively established unless the administrative law judge on motion permits withdrawal or amendment of the admission. Copies of all requests and responses shall be served on all parties and filed with the administrative law judge.
(b)(1) The testimony of any witness may be taken by deposition. Depositions may be taken orally or upon written interrogatories before any person designated by the administrative law judge or having power to administer oaths.
(2) Any party desiring to take the deposition of a witness may make application in writing to the administrative law judge setting forth:
(i) The time when, the place where, and the name and post office address of the person before whom the deposition is to be taken;
(ii) The name and address of each witness; and
(iii) The subject matter concerning which each witness is expected to testify.
(3) Such notice as the administrative law judge may order shall be given by the party taking the deposition to every other party.
(c)(1) Each witness testifying upon deposition shall be sworn, and the parties not calling him shall have the right to cross-examine him. The questions propounded and the answers thereto, together with all objections made, shall be reduced to writing and shall be read to or by the witness unless such examination and reading are waived by the witness and the parties. Any changes in form or substance which the witness desires to make shall be entered upon the deposition by the officer with a statement of the reasons given by the witness for making them. The deposition shall then be signed by the witness and certified by the officer before whom the deposition was taken. Thereafter, the officer shall seal the deposition, with copies thereof, in an envelope and mail the same by registered or certified mail to the administrative law judge.
(2) Subject to such objections to the questions and answers as were noted at the time of taking the deposition, and to the provisions in § 1955.40(b)(1), any part or all of a deposition may be offered into evidence by the party taking it as against any party who was present, represented at the taking of the deposition, or who had due notice thereof.
(d) Whenever appropriate to a just disposition of any issue in the proceeding the administrative law judge may allow discovery by any other appropriate procedure, such as by interrogatories upon a party or request for production of documents by a party.
(e) Upon motion by a party or by the person from whom discovery is sought, and for good cause shown, the administrative law judge may make any order which justice requires to limit or condition discovery in order to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense.
§ 1955.33
Sanctions for failure to comply with orders.
(a) If a party or an official or agent of a party fails, without good cause, to comply with an order including, but not limited to, an order for the taking of a deposition, written interrogatories, the production of documents, or an order to comply with a subpoena, the administrative law judge or the Secretary or both, for the purpose of permitting resolution of relevant issues and disposition of the proceeding without unnecessary delay despite such failure, may take such action as is just, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Infer that the admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have been adverse to the party;
(2) Rule that for the purposes of the proceeding, the matter or matters concerning which the order or subpoena was issued be taken as established adversely to the party;
(3) Rule that the party may not introduce into evidence or otherwise rely, in support of any claim or defense, upon testimony by such party, officer or agent, or the documents or other evidence;
(4) Rule that the party may not be heard to object to introduction and use of secondary evidence to show what the withheld admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have shown;
(5) Rule that a pleading, or part of a pleading, on a motion or other submission by the party, concerning which the order or subpoena was issued, be stricken or that decision on the pleading be rendered against the party, or both.
(b) Any such action may be taken by written or oral order issued in the course of the proceeding or by inclusion in the initial decision of the administrative law judge or an order or opinion of the Secretary. The parties may seek, and the administrative law judge may grant, such of the foregoing means of relief or other appropriate relief as may be sufficient to compensate for the lack of withheld testimony, documents, or other evidence.
§ 1955.34
Fees of witnesses.
Witnesses, including witnesses for depositions, shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States. Fees shall be paid by the party at whose instance the witness appears, and the person taking a deposition shall be paid by the party at whose instance the deposition is taken.

# Subpart E—Hearing and Decision
§ 1955.40
Hearings.
(a)(1) Except as may be ordered otherwise by the administrative law judge, the Department of Labor shall proceed first at the hearing.
(2) The Department of Labor shall have the burden of proof to sustain the contentions alleged in the notice of proposed withdrawal, published under § 1955.10(b)(1) but the proponent of any factual proposition shall be required to sustain the burden of proof with respect thereto.
(b)(1) A party shall be entitled to present his case or defense by oral or documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts. Any oral or documentary evidence may be received, but the administrative law judge shall exclude evidence which is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious.
(2) The testimony of a witness shall be upon oath or affirmation administered by the administrative law judge.
(3) If a party objects to the admission or rejection of any evidence, or to the limitation of the scope of any examination or cross-examination, or to the failure to limit such scope, he shall state briefly the grounds for such objection. Rulings on all objections shall appear in the record. Only objections made before the administrative law judge may be relied upon subsequently in the proceeding.
(4) Formal exception to an adverse ruling is not required.
(c) Official notice may be taken of any material fact not appearing in evidence in the record, which is among the traditional matters of judicial notice, or concerning which the Department of Labor by reason of its functions is presumed to be expert: Provided, that the parties shall be given adequate notice, at the hearing or by reference in the administrative law judge's and the Secretary's decision of the matters so noticed and shall be given adequate opportunity to show the contrary.
(d) When an objection to a question propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining party may make a specific offer of proof of what the party expects to prove by the answer of the witness orally or in writing. Written offers of proof, adequately marked for identification, shall be retained in the record so as to be available for consideration by any reviewing authority.
(e) Hearings shall be stenographically reported. Copies of the transcript may be obtained by the parties and the public upon payment of the actual cost of duplication to the Department of Labor in accordance with 29 CFR 70.62(c).
(f) Corrections of the official transcript may be made only when they involve errors affecting substance and then only in the manner herein provided. Corrections may be ordered by the administrative law judge or agreed to in a written stipulation by all parties or their representatives. Where the parties are in disagreement, the administrative law judge shall determine the corrections to be made and so order. Corrections may be interlineated in the official transcript so as not to obliterate the original text.
§ 1955.41
Decision of the administrative law judge.
(a) Within 30 days after receipt of notice that the transcript of the testimony has been filed with the administrative law judge, or such additional time as the administrative law judge may allow, each party may file with the administrative law judge proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and rules or orders, together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and brief shall be served on all other parties and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.
(b)(1) Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and rules or orders, the administrative law judge shall make and serve upon each party his initial decision which shall become final upon the 30th day after service thereof unless exceptions are filed thereto.
(2) The decision of the administrative law judge shall be based solely upon substantial evidence on the record as a whole and shall state all facts officially noticed and relied upon. The decision of the administrative law judge shall include:
(i) A statement of the findings of fact and conclusions of law, with reasons and bases therefor upon each material issue of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record;
(ii) Reference to any material fact based on official notice; and
(iii) The appropriate rule, order, relief, or denial thereof.
§ 1955.42
Exceptions.
(a) Within 30 days after service of the decision of the administrative law judge, any party may file with the Secretary written exceptions thereto with supporting reasons. Such exceptions shall refer to the specific findings of fact, conclusions of law, or terms of the rule or order excepted to; and shall suggest corrected findings of fact, conclusions of law, or terms of the rule or order referencing the specific pages of the transcript relevant to the suggestions. Requests for extension of time to file exceptions may be granted if the requests are received by the Secretary no later than 25 days after service of the decision.
(b) If any timely exceptions are filed, the Secretary may set a time for filing any response to the exceptions with supporting reasons. All exceptions and responses thereto shall be served on all the parties.
§ 1955.43
Transmission of the record.
If exceptions are filed, the Secretary shall request the administrative law judge to transmit the record of the proceeding to the Secretary for review. The record shall include the State plan; a copy of the Assistant Secretary's notice of proposed withdrawal; the State's statement of items in contention; the notice of the hearing if any; any motions and requests filed in written form and rulings thereon; the transcript of the testimony taken at the hearing, together with any documents or papers filed in connection with the preliminary conference and the hearing itself; such proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, rules or orders, and supporting reasons as may have been filed; the administrative law judge's decision; and such exceptions, responses, and briefs in support thereof as may have been filed in the proceedings.
§ 1955.44
Final decision.
(a) After review of any exceptions, together with the record references and authorities cited in support thereof, the Secretary shall issue a final decision ruling upon each exception and objection filed. The final decision may affirm, modify, or set aside in whole or in part the findings, conclusions, and the rule or order contained in the decision of the administrative law judge. The final decision shall also include reference to any material fact based on official notice.
(b) The Secretary's final decision shall be served upon all the parties and shall become final upon the 30th day after service thereof unless the Secretary grants a stay pending judicial review.
§ 1955.45
Effect of appeal of administrative law judge's decision.
An administrative law judge's decision shall be stayed pending a decision on appeal to the Secretary. If there are no exceptions filed to the decisions of the administrative law judge, the administrative law judge's decision shall be published in the
Federal Register
as a final decision and served upon the parties.
§ 1955.46
Finality for purposes of judicial review.
Only a final decision by the Secretary under § 1955.44 shall be deemed final agency action for purposes of judicial review. A decision of an administrative law judge which becomes final for lack of appeal is not deemed final
agency action for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 704.
§ 1955.47
Judicial review.
The State may obtain judicial review of a decision by the Secretary in accordance with section 18(g) of the Act.
Pt. 1956

# PART 1956—STATE PLANS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND ENFORCEMENT OF STATE STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES IN STATES WITHOUT APPROVED PRIVATE EMPLOYEE PLANS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1956.1
Purpose and scope.
1956.2
General policies.

# Subpart B—Criteria
1956.10
Specific criteria.
1956.11
Indices of effectiveness.

# Subpart C—Approval, Change, Evaluation and Withdrawal of Approval Procedures
1956.20
Procedures for submission, approval and rejection.
1956.21
Procedures for submitting changes.
1956.22
Procedures for evaluation and monitoring.
1956.23
Procedures for certification of completion of development and determination on application of criteria.
1956.24
Procedures for withdrawal of approval.
Subpart D—General Provisions and Conditions [Reserved]

# Authority:
Section 18 (29 U.S.C. 667), 29 CFR parts 1902 and 1955, and Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1-2012 (77 FR 3912, Jan. 25, 2012).

# Source:
41 FR 12429, Mar. 4, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1956.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part sets forth procedures and requirements for approval, continued evaluation, and operation of State plans submitted under section 18 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 667) (hereinafter called the Act) for the development and enforcement of State standards applicable to State and local government employees in States without approved private employee plans. Although section 2(b) of the Act sets forth the policy of assuring every working man and woman safe and healthful working conditions, State and local government agencies are excluded from the definition of “employer” in section 3(5). Only under section 18 of the Act are such public employees ensured protection under the provisions of an approved State plan. Where no such plan is in effect with regard to private employees, State and local government employees have not heretofore been assured any protections under the Act. Section 18(b), however, permits States to submit plans with respect to any occupational safety and health issue with respect to which a Federal standard has been promulgated under section 6 of the Act. Under § 1902.2(c) of this chapter, an issue is defined as “any * * * industrial, occupational, or hazard grouping that is found to be administratively practicable and * * * not in conflict with the purposes of the Act.” Since Federal standards are in effect with regard to hazards found in public employment, a State plan covering this occupational category meets the definition of section 18 and the regulations. It is the purpose of this part to assure the availability of the protections of the Act to public employees, where no State plan covering private employees is in effect, by adapting the requirements and procedures applicable to State plans covering private employees to the situation where State coverage under section 18(b) is proposed for public employees only.
(b) In adopting these requirements and procedures, consideration should be given to differences between public and private employment. For instance, a system of monetary penalties applicable to violations of public employers may not in all cases be necessarily the most appropriate method of achieving compliance. Further, the impact of the lack of Federal enforcement authority application to public employers requires certain adjustments of private employer plan procedures in adapting them to plans covering only public employees in a State.
§ 1956.2
General policies.
(a)
Policy.
The Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health (hereinafter referred to as the Assistant Secretary) will approve a State plan which provides an occupational safety and health program for the protection of State and local government employees (hereinafter State and local government employees are referred to as public employees) that in his judgment meets or will meet the criteria set forth in § 1956.10. Included among these criteria is the requirement that the State plan for public employees (hereinafter such a plan will be referred to as the plan) provides for the development and enforcement of standards relating to hazards in employment covered by the plan which are or will be at least as effective in providing safe and healthful employment and places of employment for public employees as standards promulgated and enforced under section 6 of the Act. In determining whether a plan satisfies the requirement of effectiveness, the Assistant Secretary will measure the plan against the indices of effectiveness, set forth in § 1956.11.
(b)
Developmental plan.
(1) A State plan for an occupational safety and health program for public employees may be approved although, upon submission, it does ot fully meet the criteria set forth in § 1956.10, if it includes satisfactory assurances by the State that it will take the necessary steps to bring the program into conformity with these criteria within the 3-year period immediately following the commencement of the plan's operation. In such a case, the plan shall include the specific actions the State proposes to take, and a time schedule for their accomplishment which is not to exceed 3 years, at the end of which the plan will meet the criteria in § 1956.10. A developmental plan shall include the dates within which intermediate and final action will be accomplished. Although administrative actions, such as stages for application of standards and enforcement, related staffing, development of regulations may be developmental, to be considered for approval, a State plan for public employees must contain at time of plan approval basic State legislative and/or executive authority under which these actions will be taken. If necessary program changes require further implementing executive action by the Governor or supplementary legislative action by the State, a copy of the appropriate order, or the bill or a draft of legislation that will be or has been proposed for enactment shall be submitted, accompanied by:
(i) A statement of the Governor's support of the legislation or order and
(ii) A statement of legal opinion that the proposed legislation or executive action will meet the requirements of the Act and this part in a manner consistent with the State's constitution and laws.
(2) On the basis of the State's submission, the Assistant Secretary will approve the plan if he finds that there is a reasonable expectation that the plan for public employees will meet the criteria in § 1956.10 within the indicated 3 year period. In such a case, the Assistant Secretary shall not make a determination that a State is fully applying the criteria in § 1956.10 until the State has completed all the developmental steps specified in the plan which are designed to make it at least as effective as the Federal program for the private sector, and the Assistant Secretary has had at least 1 year to evaluate the plan on the basis of actual operations following the completion of all developmental steps. If at the end of 3 years from the date of commencement of the plan's operation, the State is found by the Assistant Secretary, after affording the State notice and an opportunity for a hearing, not to have substantially completed the developmental steps of the plan, he shall withdraw the approval of the plan.
(3) Where a State plan approved under part 1902 of this chapter is discontinued, except for its public employee component, or becomes approved after approval of a plan under this part, the developmental period applicable to the public employee component of the earlier plan will be controlling with regard to any such public employee coverage. For good cause, a State may demonstrate that an additional period of time is required to make adjustments on account of the
transfer from one type of plan to another.
(c)
Scope of a State plan for public employees.
(1) A State plan for public employees must provide for the coverage of both State and local government employees to the full extent permitted by the State laws and constitution. The qualification “to the extent permitted by its law” means only that where a State may not constitutionally regulate occupational safety and health conditions in certain political subdivisions, the plan may exclude such political subdivision employees from coverage.
(2) The State shall not exclude any occupational, industrial, or hazard grouping from coverage under its plan unless the Assistant Secretary finds that the State has shown there is no necessity for such coverage.

# Subpart B—Criteria
§ 1956.10
Specific criteria.
(a)
General.
A State plan for public employees must meet the specific criteria set forth in this section.
(b)
Designation of State agency.
(1) The plan shall designate a State agency or agencies which will be responsible for administering the plan throughout the State.
(2) The plan shall also describe the authority and responsibilities vested in such agency or agencies. The plan shall contain assurances that any other responsibilities of the designated agency shall not detract significantly from the resources and priorities assigned to the administration of the plan.
(3) A State agency or agencies must be designated with overall responsibility for administering the plan throughout the State. Subject to this overall responsibility, enforcement of standards may be delegated to an appropriate agency having occupational safety and health responsibilities or expertise throughout the State. Included in this overall responsibility are the requirements that the designated agency have, or assure the provision of necessary qualified personnel, legal authority necessary for the enforcement of the standards and make reports as required by the Assistant Secretary.
(c)
Standards.
The State plan for public employees shall include, or provide for the development or adoption of, standards which are or will be at least as effective as those promulgated under section 6 of the Act. The plan shall also contain assurances that the State will continue to develop or adopt such standards. Indices of the effectiveness of standards and procedures for the development or adoption of standards against which the Assistant Secretary will measure the plan in determining whether it is approvable are set forth in § 1956.11(b).
(d)
Enforcement.
(1) The State plan for public employees shall provide a program for the enforcement of the State standards which is, or will be, at least as effective in assuring safe and healthful employment and places of employment as the standards promulgated by section 6 of the Act; and provide assurances that the State's enforcement program for public employees will continue to be at least as effective in this regard as the Federal program in the private sector. Indices of the effectiveness of a State's enforcement plan against which the Assistant Secretary will measure the plan in determining whether it is approvable are set forth in § 1956.11(c).
(2) The plan shall require State and local government agencies to comply with all applicable State occupational safety and health standards included in the plan and all applicable rules issued thereunder, and employees to comply with all standards, rules, and orders applicable to their conduct.
(e)
Right of entry and inspection.
The plan shall contain adequate assurances that inspectors will have a right to enter covered workplaces which is at least as effective as that provided in section 8 of the Act for the purpose of inspection or monitoring. Where such entry is refused, the State agency or agencies shall have the authority through appropriate legal process to compel such entry.
(f)
Prohibition against advance notice.
The State plan shall contain a prohibition against advance notice of inspections. Any exceptions must be expressly authorized by the head of the designated agency or agencies or his representative and such exceptions
may be no broader than those authorized under the Act and the rules published in part 1903 of this chapter relating to advance notice.
(g)
Personnel.
The plan shall provide assurances that the designated agency or agencies and all government agencies to which authority has been delegated, have, or will have, a sufficient number of adequately trained and qualified personnel necessary for the enforcement of standards. For this purpose, qualified personnel means persons employed on a merit basis, including all persons engaged in the development of standards and the administration of the plan. Subject to the results of evaluations, conformity with the Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration, 45 CFR part 70, issued by the Secretary of Labor, including any amendments thereto, and any standards prescribed by the U.S. Civil Service Commission, pursuant to section 208 of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970, modifying or superseding such standards, and guidelines on “at least as effective as” staffing derived from the Federal private employee program will be deemed to meet this requirement.
(h)
Resources.
The plan shall contain satisfactory assurances through the use of budget, organizational description, and any other appropriate means, that the State will devote adequate funds to the administration and enforcement of the public employee program. The Assistant Secretary will make the periodic evaluations of the adequacy of the resources the State has devoted to the plan.
(i)
Employer records and reports.
The plan shall provide assurances that public employers covered by the plan will maintain records and make reports on occupational injuries and illnesses in a manner similar to that required of private employers under the Act.
(j)
State agency reports to the Assistant Secretary.
The plan shall provide assurances that the designated agency or agencies shall make such reasonable reports to the Assistant Secretary in such form and containing such information as he may from time to time require. The agency or agencies shall establish specific goals consistent with the goals of the Act, including measures of performance, output, and results which will determine the efficiency and effectiveness of the State program for public employees, and shall make periodic reports to the Assistant Secretary on the extent to which the State, in implementation of its plan, has attained these goals. Reports will also include data and information on the implementation of the specific inspection and voluntary compliance activities included within the plan. Further, these reports shall contain such statistical information pertaining to work-related deaths, injuries and illnesses in employments and places of employment covered by the plan as the Assistant Secretary may from time to time require.
§ 1956.11
Indices of effectiveness.
(a)
General.
In order to satisfy the requirements of effectiveness under § 1956.10 (c)(1) and (d)(1), the State plan for public employees shall:
(1) Establish the same standards, procedures, criteria, and rules as have been established by the Assistant Secretary under the act; or
(2) Establish alternative standards, procedures, criteria, and rules which will be measured against each of the indices of effectiveness in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to determine whether the alternatives are at least as effective as the Federal program for private employees, where applicable, with respect to the subject of each index. For each index the State must demonstrate by the presentation of factual or other appropriate information that its plan for public employees will, to the extent practicable, be at least as effective as the Federal program for private employees.
(b)
Standards.
(1) The indices for measurement of a State plan for public employees with regard to standards follow in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The Assistant Secretary will determine whether the State plan for public employees satisfies the requirements of effectiveness with regard to each index as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The Assistant Secretary will determine whether the State plan for public employees:
(i) Provides for State standards which are or will be at least as effective as the standards promulgated under section 6 of the Act. In the case of any State standards dealing with toxic materials or harmful physical agents, they should adequately assure, to the extent feasible, that no employee will suffer material impairment of health or functional capacity, even if such employee has regular exposure to the hazard dealt with by such standard for the period of his working life, by such means as, in the development and promulgation of standards, obtaining the best available evidence through research, demonstration, experiments, and experience under this and any other safety and health laws.
(ii) Provides an adequate method to assure that its standards will continue to be at least as effective as Federal standards, including Federal standards which become effective subsequent to any approval of the plan.
(iii) Provides a procedure for the development and promulgation of standards which allows for the consideration of pertinent factual information and affords interested persons, including employees, employers and the public, an opportunity to participate in such processes, by such means as establishing procedures for consideration of expert technical knowledge, and providing interested persons, including employers, employees, recognized standards-producing organizations, and the public, an opportunity to submit information requesting the development or promulgation of new standards or the modification or revocation of existing standards and to participate in any hearings. This index may also be satisfied by such means as the adoption of Federal standards, in which case the procedures at the Federal level before adoption of a standard under section 6 may be considered to meet the conditions of this index.
(iv) Provides authority for the granting of variances from State standards upon application of a public employer or employers which correspond to variances authorized under the Act, and for consideration of the views of interested parties, by such means as giving affected employees notice of each application and an opportunity to request and participate in hearings or other appropriate proceedings relating to applications for variances.
(v) Provides for prompt and effective standards setting actions for the protection of employees against new and unforeseen hazards, by such means as the authority to promulgate emergency temporary standards. Such authority is particularly appropriate for those situations where public employees are exposed to unique hazards for which existing standards do not provide adequate protection.
(vi) Provides that State standards contain appropriate provision for the furnishing to employees of information regarding hazards in the workplace, including information about suitable precautions, relevant symptoms, and emergency treatment in case of exposure; by such means as labelling, posting, and, where appropriate, results of medical examinations, being furnished only to appropriate State officials and, if the employee so requests, to his physician.
(vii) Provides that State standards where appropriate, contain specific provision for the protection of employees from exposure to hazards, by such means as containing appropriate provision for the use of suitable protective equipment and for control or technological procedures with respect to such hazards, including monitoring or measuring such exposure.
(c)
Enforcement.
(1) The indices for measurement of a State plan for public employees with regard to enforcement follow in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The Assistant Secretary will determine whether the plan satisfies the requirements of effectiveness with regard to each index as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The Assistant Secretary will determine whether the State plan for public employees:
(i) Provides for inspection of covered workplaces in the State by the designated agency or agencies or any other agency which is duly delegated authority, including inspections in response to complaints where there are reasonable grounds to believe a hazard exists, in order to assure, so far as possible, safe and healthful working conditions for covered employees by such
means as providing for inspections under conditions such as those provided in section 8 of the Act.
(ii) Provides an opportunity for employees and their representative, before, during, and after inspections, to bring possible violations to the attention of the State or local agency with enforcement responsibility in order to aid inspections, by such means as affording a representative of the employer, and a representative authorized by employees, an opportunity to accompany the inspector during the physical inspection of the workplace, or where there is no authorized representative, provide for consultation by the inspector with a reasonable number of employees.
(iii) Provides for notification of employees, or their representatives, when the State decides not to take compliance action as a result of violations alleged by such employees or their representative, and further provides for informal review of such decisions, by such means as written notification of decisions not to take compliance action and the reasons therefor, and procedures for informal review of such decisions and written statements of the disposition of such review.
(iv) Provides that public employees be informed of their protections and obligations under the Act, including the provisions of applicable standards, by such means as the posting of notices or other appropriate sources of information.
(v) Provides necessary and appropriate protection to an employee against discharge or discrimination in terms and conditions of employment because he has filed a complaint, testified, or otherwise acted to exercise rights under the State program for public employees for himself or others, by such means as providing for appropriate sanctions against the State or local agency for such actions, and by providing for the withholding, upon request, of the names of complainants from the employer.
(vi) Provides that public employees have access to information on their exposure to toxic materials or harmful physical agents and receive prompt information when they have been or are being exposed to such materials or agents in concentrations or at levels in excess of those prescribed by the applicable safety and health standards, by such means as the observation by employees of the monitoring or measuring of such materials or agents, employee access to the records of such monitoring or measuring, prompt notification by a public employer to any employee who has been or is being exposed to such agents or materials in excess of the applicable standards, and information to such employee of corrective action being taken.
(vii) Provides procedures for the prompt restraint or elimination of any conditions or practices in covered places of employment which could reasonably be expected to cause death or serious physical harm immediately or before the imminence of such danger can be eliminated through the enforcement procedures otherwise provided for in the plan, by such means as immediately informing employees and employers of such hazards, taking steps to obtain immediate abatement of the hazard by the employer, and, where appropriate, authority to initiate necessary legal proceedings to require such abatement.
(viii) Provides that the designated agency (or agencies) and any agency to which it has duly delegated authority, will have the necessary legal authority for the enforcement of standards by such means as provisions for appropriate compulsory process to obtain necessary evidence or testimony in connection with inspection and enforcement proceedings.
(ix) Provides for prompt notice to public employers and employees when an alleged violation of standards has occurred, including the proposed abatement requirements, by such means as the issuance of a written citation to the public employer and posting of the citation at or near the site of the violation; further provides for advising the public employer of any proposed sanctions, wherever appropriate, by such means as a notice to the employer by certified mail within a reasonable time of any proposed sanctions.
(x) Provides effective sanctions against public employers who violate State standards and orders, or applicable public agency standards, such as
those prescribed in the Act. In lieu of monetary penalties a complex of enforcement tools and rights, such as various forms of equitable remedies available to the designee including administrative orders; availability of employee rights such as right to contest citations, and provisions for strengthened employee participation in enforcement may be demonstrated to be as effective as monetary penalties in achieving complianace in public employment. In evaluating the effectiveness of an alternate system for compelling compliance, elements of the enforcement educational program such as a system of agency self inspection procedures, and in-house training programs, and employee complaint procedures may be taken into consideration.
(xi) Provides for an employer to have the right of review of violations alleged by the State or any agency to which it has duly delegated authority, abatement periods and proposed penalties, where appropriate, for employees or their representatives to challenge the reasonableness of the period of time fixed in the citation for the abatement of the hazard, and for employees or their representatives to have an opportunity to participate in review, proceedings, by such means as providing for admininistrative review, with an opportunity for a full hearing on the issues.
(xii) Provides that the State will undertake programs to encourage voluntary compliance by public employers and employees by such means as conducting training and consultation with such employers and employees, and encouraging agency self-inspection programs.
(d)
Additional indices.
Upon his own motion, or after consideration of data, views, and arguments received in any proceedings held under subpart C of this part, the Assistant Secretary may prescribe additional indices for any State plan for public employees which shall be in furtherance of the purpose of this section.

# Subpart C—Approval, Change, Evaluation and Withdrawal of Approval Procedures
§ 1956.20
Procedures for submission, approval and rejection.
The procedures contained in subpart C of part 1902 of this chapter shall be applicable to submission, approval, and rejection of State plans submitted under this part, except that the information required in § 1902.20(b)(1)(iii) would not be included in decisions of approval.
§ 1956.21
Procedures for submitting changes.
The procedures contained in part 1953 of this chapter shall be applicable to submission and consideration of developmental, Federal program, evaluation, and State-initiated change supplements to plans approved under this part.
§ 1956.22
Procedures for evaluation and monitoring.
The procedures contained in part 1954 of this chapter shall be applicable to evaluation and monitoring of State plans approved under this part, except that the decision to relinquish Federal enforcement authority under section 18(e) of the Act is not relevant to Phase II and III monitoring under § 1954.2 and the guidelines of exercise of Federal discretionary enforcement authority provided in § 1954.3 are not applicable to plans approved under this part. The factors listed in § 1902.37(b) of this chapter, except those specified in § 1902.37(b)(11) and (12), which would be adapted to the State compliance program, provide the basis for monitoring.
§ 1956.23
Procedures for certification of completion of development and determination on application of criteria.
The procedures contained in §§ 1902.33 and 1902.34 of this chapter shall be applicable to certification of completion of developmental steps under plans approved in accordance with this part. Such certification shall initiate intensive monitoring of actual operations of the developed plan, which shall continue for at least a year after certification, at which time a determination
shall be made under the procedures and criteria of §§ 1902.38, 1902.39, 1902.40 and 1902.41, that on the basis of actual operations, the criteria set forth in §§ 1956.10 and 1956.11 of this part are being applied under the plan. The factors listed in § 1902.37(b) of this chapter, except those specified in § 1902.37(b)(11) and (12) which would be adapted to the State's compliance program provide the basis for making the determination of operational effectiveness.
§ 1956.24
Procedures for withdrawal of approval.
The procedures and standards contained in part 1955 of this chapter shall be applicable to the withdrawal of approval of plans approved under this part 1956, except that (because these plans, as do public employee programs aproved and financed in connection with a State plan covering private employees, must cover all employees of State and local agencies in a State whenever a State is constitutionally able to do so, at least developmentally), no industrial or occupational issues may be considered a separable portion of a plan under § 1955.2(a)(10); and, as Federal standards and enforcement do not apply to State and local government employers, withdrawal of approval of a plan approved under this part 1956 could not bring about application of the provisions of the Federal Act to such employers as set out in § 1955.4 of this chapter.
Subpart D—General Provisions and Conditions [Reserved]
Pt. 1960

# PART 1960—BASIC PROGRAM ELEMENTS FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAMS AND RELATED MATTERS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1960.1
Purpose and scope.
1960.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Administration
1960.6
Designation of agency safety and health officials.
1960.7
Financial management.
1960.8
Agency responsibilities.
1960.9
Supervisory responsibilities.
1960.10
Employee responsibilities and rights.
1960.11
Evaluation of occupational safety and health performance.
1960.12
Dissemination of occupational safety and health program information.

# Subpart C—Standards
1960.16
Compliance with OSHA standards.
1960.17
Alternate standards.
1960.18
Supplementary standards.
1960.19
Other Federal agency standards affecting occupational safety and health.

# Subpart D—Inspection and Abatement
1960.25
Qualifications of safety and health inspectors and agency inspections.
1960.26
Conduct of inspections.
1960.27
Representatives of officials in charge and representatives of employees.
1960.28
Employee reports of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions.
1960.29
Accident investigation.
1960.30
Abatement of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions.
1960.31
Inspections by OSHA.

# Subpart E—General Services Administration and Other Federal Agencies
1960.34
General provisions.
1960.35
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.

# Subpart F—Occupational Safety and Health Committees
1960.36
General provisions.
1960.37
Committee organization.
1960.38
Committee formation.
1960.39
Agency responsibilities.
1960.40
Establishment committee duties.
1960.41
National committee duties.

# Subpart G—Allegations of Reprisal
1960.46
Agency responsibility.
1960.47
Results of investigations.

# Subpart H—Training
1960.54
Training of top management officials.
1960.55
Training of supervisors.
1960.56
Training of safety and health specialists.
1960.57
Training of safety and health inspectors.
1960.58
Training of collateral duty safety and health personnel and committee members.
1960.59
Training of employees and employee representatives.
1960.60
Training assistance.

# Subpart I—Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
1960.66
Purpose, scope, and general provisions.
1960.67
Federal agency certification of the injury and illness annual summary (OSHA 300-A or equivalent).
1960.68
Prohibition against discrimination.
1960.69
Retention and updating of old forms.
1960.70
Reporting of serious accidents.
1960.71
Agency annual reports.
1960.72
Reporting Federal Agency Injury and Illness Information.
1960.73
Federal agency injury and illness recordkeeping forms.
1960.74
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Evaluation of Federal Occupational Safety and Health Programs
1960.78
Purpose and scope.
1960.79
Self-evaluations of occupational safety and health programs.
1960.80
Secretary's evaluations of agency occupational safety and health programs.

# Subpart K—Field Federal Safety and Health Councils
1960.84
Purpose.
1960.85
Role of the Secretary.
1960.86
Establishing councils.
1960.87
Objectives.
1960.88
Membership and participation.
1960.89
Organization.
1960.90
Operating procedures.

# Authority:
Sections 19 and 24 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1609, 1614; 29 U.S.C. 668, 673), 5 U.S.C. 553, Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1-90 (55 FR 9033), and Executive Order 12196.

# Source:
45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1960.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) Section 19 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (the Act) contains special provisions to assure safe and healthful working conditions for Federal employees. Under that section, it is the responsibility of the head of each Federal agency to establish and maintain an effective and comprehensive occupational safety and health program which is consistent with the standards promulgated under section 6 of the Act. The Secretary of Labor (the Secretary), under section 19, is to report to the President certain evaluations and recommendations with respect to the programs of the various agencies, and the duties which section 24 of the Act imposes on the Secretary of Labor necessarily extend to the collection, compilation and analysis of occupational safety and health statistics from the Federal Government. The role of the General Services Administration in this area stems from its duties as the Government's principal landlord and from its specific safety and health responsibilities under 41 CFR part 101, subchapter D, Federal Property Management Regulations.
(b) Executive Order 12196, Occupational Safety and Health Programs for Federal Employees, issued February 26, 1980, prescribes additional responsibilities for the heads of agencies, the Secretary, and the General Services Administrator. Among other duties, the Secretary is required to issue basic program elements in accordance with which the heads of agencies shall operate their safety and health programs. The purpose of this part is to issue these basic program elements. Although agency heads are required to operate a program in accordance with the basic program elements, those elements contain numerous provisions which, by their terms, permit agency heads the flexibility necessary to implement their programs in a manner consistent with their respective missions, sizes, and organizations. Moreover, an agency head, after consultation with agency employees or their representatives and with appropriate safety and health committees may request the Secretary to consider approval of alternate program elements; the Secretary, after consultation with the Federal Advisory Council on Occupational Safety and Health, may approve such alternate program elements.
(c) Under Executive Order 12196, the Secretary is required to perform various services for the agencies, including consultation, training, recordkeeping, inspections, and evaluations. Agencies are encouraged to seek such assistance from the Secretary as well as advice on how to comply with the basic program elements and operate effective occupational safety and health programs. Upon the request of an Agency, the Office of Federal Agency
Safety and Health Programs will review proposed agency plans for the implementation of program elements.
(d) Section 19 of the Act and the Executive Order require specific opportunities for employee participation in the operation of agency safety and health programs. The manner of fulfilling these requirements is set forth in part in these program elements. These requirements are separate from but consistent with the Federal Service Labor Management Relations Statute (5 U.S.C. 71) and regulations dealing with labor-management relations within the Federal Government.
(e) Executive Order 12196 and these basic program elements apply to all agencies of the Executive Branch. They apply to all Federal employees. They apply to all working conditions of Federal employees except those involving uniquely military equipment, systems, and operations.
(f) No provision of the Executive Order or this part shall be construed in any manner to relieve any private employer, including Federal contractors, or their employees of any rights or responsibilities under the provisions of the Act, including compliance activities conducted by the Department of Labor or other appropriate authority.
(g) Federal employees who work in establishments of private employers are covered by their agencies' occupational safety and health programs. Although an agency may not have the authority to require abatement of hazardous conditions in a private sector workplace, the agency head must assure safe and healthful working conditions for his/her employees. This shall be accomplished by administrative controls, personal protective equipment, or withdrawal of Federal employees from the private sector facility to the extent necessary to assure that the employees are protected.
[45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980, as amended at 60 FR 34852, July 5, 1995]
§ 1960.2
Definitions.
(a) The term
Act
means the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1590
et seq.,
29 U.S.C. 651
et seq.
).
(b) The term
agency
for the purposes of this part means an Executive Department, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101, or any employing unit of authority of the Executive Branch of the Government. For the purposes of this part to the extent it implements section 19 of the Act, the term
agency
does not include the United States Postal Service. By agreement between the Secretary of Labor and the head of an agency of the Legislative or Judicial Branches of the Government, these regulations may be applicable to such agencies.
(c) The term
agency liaison
means an agency person appointed with full authority and reponsibility to represent the occupant agency management with the official in charge of a facility or installation such as a GSA Building Manager.
(d) The term
building manager
means the person who manages one or several buildings under the authority of a Federal agency. For example, a building manager may be the GSA person who manages building(s) for GSA.
(e) As used in Executive Order 12196, the term
consultation with representatives of the employees thereof
shall include such consultation, conference, or negotiation with representatives of agency employees as is consistent with the Federal Service Labor Management Relations Statute (5 U.S.C. 71), or collective bargaining or other labor-management arrangements. As used in this part, the term
representative of employees
shall be interpreted with due regard for any obligation imposed by the aforementioned statute and any other labor-management arrangement that may cover the employees involved.
(f) The term
Designated Agency Safety and Health Official
means the individual who is responsible for the management of the safety and health program within an agency, and is so designated or appointed by the head of the agency pursuant to § 1960.6 and the provisions of Executive Order 12196.
(g) The term
employee
as used in this part means any person, other than members of the Armed Forces, employed or otherwise suffered, permitted, or required to work by an
agency
as the latter term is defined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(h) The term
establishment
means a single physical location where business is conducted or where services or operations are performed. Where distinctly
separate activities are performed at a single physical location, each activity shall be treated as a separate
establishment.
Typically, an
establishment
as used in this part refers to a field activity, regional office, area office, installation, or facility.
(i) The term
uniquely military equipment, systems, and operations
excludes from the scope of the order the design of Department of Defense equipment and systems that are unique to the national defense mission, such as military aircraft, ships, submarines, missiles, and missile sites, early warning systems, military space systems, artillery, tanks, and tactical vehicles; and excludes operations that are uniquely military such as field maneuvers, naval operations, military flight operations, associated research test and development activities, and actions required under emergency conditions. The term includes within the scope of the Order Department of Defense workplaces and operations comparable to those of industry in the private sector such as: Vessel, aircraft, and vehicle repair, overhaul, and modification (except for equipment trials); construction; supply services; civil engineering or public works; medical services; and office work.
(j) The term
incidence rates
means the number of injuries and illnesses, or lost workdays, per 100 full-time workers. Rates are calculated as
N × 200,000 ÷ EH
N = number of injuries and illnesses, or number of lost workdays.
EH = total hours worked by all employees during a month, a quarter, or fiscal year.
200,000 = base for 100 full-time equivalent workers (working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year).
(k) The term
inspection
means a comprehensive survey of all or part of a workplace in order to detect safety and health hazards. Inspections are normally performed during the regular work hours of the agency, except as special circumstances may require. Inspections do not include routine, day-to-day visits by agency occupational safety and health personnel, or routine workplace surveillance of occupational health conditions.
(l)
Injury or illness.
An injury or illness is an abnormal condition or disorder. Injuries include cases such as, but not limited to, a cut, fracture, sprain, or amputation. Illness includes both acute and chronic illnesses, such as, but not limited to, a skin disease, respiratory disorder, or poisoning.
(m) The term
representative of management
means a supervisor or management official as defined in the applicable labor-management relations program covering the affected employees.
(n)-(p) [Reserved]
(q) The term
Safety and Health Inspector
means a safety and/or occupational health specialist or other person authorized pursuant to Executive Order 12196, section 1-201(g), to carry out inspections for the purpose of subpart D of this part, a person having equipment and competence to recognize safety and/or health hazards in the workplace.
(r) The term
Safety and Health Official
means an individual who manages the occupational safety and/or occupational health program at organizational levels below the Designated Agency Safety and Health Official.
(s) The term
Safety and Health Specialist
means a person or persons meeting the Office of Personnel Management standards for such occupations, which include but are not limited to:
Safety and Occupational Health Manager/Specialist GS-018
Safety Engineer GS-803
Fire Prevention Engineer GS-804
Industrial Hygienist GS-690
Fire Protection and Prevention Specialist/Marshal GS-081
Health Physicist GS-1306
Occupational Medicine Physician GS-602
Occupational Health Nurse GS-610
Safety Technician GS-019
Physical Science Technician GS-1311
Environmental Health Technician GS-699
Air Safety Investigation Officer GS-1815
Aviation Safety Specialist GS-1825
Chemist GS-1320
Health Technician GS-645
Highway Safety Manager GS-2125
or equally qualified military, agency, or nongovernment personnel. The agency head shall be responsible for determination and certification of equally qualified personnel.
(t) The term
workplace
means a physical location where the agency's work or operations are performed.
(u) The term
imminent danger
means any conditions or practices in any
workplace which are such that a danger exists which could reasonably be expected to cause death or serious physical harm immediately or before the imminence of such danger can be eliminated through normal procedures.
(v) The word
serious
as used in
serious hazard, serious violation
or
serious condition
means a hazard, violation or condition such that there is a substantial probability that death or serious physical harm could result.
(w) The term
certified safety and health committee
means an agency safety and health committee that meets the provisions of section 1-3 of Executive Order 12196 and of this part, as listed and attested to by the head of each agency in writing to the Secretary.
(x) The term
reprisal
as used in this part means any act of restraint, interference, coercion or discrimination against an employee for exercising his or her rights under Executive Order 12196 and this part, or for participating in the agency's safety and health program.
[45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 3078, Jan. 25, 1984; 50 FR 40269, Oct. 2, 1985; 51 FR 28378, Aug. 7, 1986; 69 FR 68804, Nov. 26, 2004; 78 FR 47190, Aug. 5, 2013]

# Subpart B—Administration
§ 1960.6
Designation of agency safety and health officials.
(a) The head of each agency shall designate an official with sufficient authority and responsibility to represent effectively the interest and support of the agency head in the management and administration of the agency occupational safety and health program. This Designated Agency Safety and Health Official should be of the rank of Assistant Secretary, or of equivalent rank, or equivalent degree of responsibility, and shall have sufficient headquarters staff with the necessary training and experience. The headquarters staff should report directly to, or have appropriate access to, the Designated Agency Safety and Health Official, in order to carry out the responsibilities under this part.
(b) The Designated Agency Safety and Health Official shall assist the agency head in establishing:
(1) An agency occupational safety and health policy and program to carry out the provisions of section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, and this part;
(2) An organization, including provision for the designation of safety and health officials at appropriate levels, with adequate budgets and staffs to implement the occupational safety and health program at all operational levels;
(3) A set of procedures that ensures effective implementation of the agency policy and program as required by section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, and the program elements of this part, considering the mission, size, and organization of the agency;
(4) Goals and objectives for reducing and eliminating occupational accidents, injuries, and illnesses;
(5) Plans and procedures for evaluating the agency's occupational safety and health program effectiveness at all operational levels; and
(6) Priorities with respect to the factors which cause occupational accidents, injuries, and illnesses in the agency's workplaces so that appropriate corrective actions can be taken.
(c) The agency head shall assure that safety and health officials are designated at each appropriate level with sufficient authority and responsibility to plan for and assure funds for necessary safety and health staff, equipment, materials, and training required to ensure implementation of an effective occupational safety and health program.
§ 1960.7
Financial management.
(a) The head of each agency shall ensure that the agency budget submission includes appropriate financial and other resources to effectively implement and administer the agency's occupational safety and health program.
(b) The Designated Agency Safety and Health Official, management officials in charge of each establishment, safety and health officials at all appropriate levels, and other management
officials shall be responsible for planning, requesting resources, implementing, and evaluating the occupational safety and health program budget in accordance with all relevant Office of Management and Budget regulations and documents.
(c) Appropriate resources for an agency's occupational safety and health program shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Sufficient personnel to implement and administer the program at all levels, including necessary administrative costs such as training, travel, and personal protective equipment;
(2) Abatement of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions related to agency operations or facilities;
(3) Safety and health sampling, testing, and diagnostic and analytical tools and equipment, including laboratory analyses;
(4) Any necessary contracts to identify, analyze, or evaluate unsafe or unhealthful working conditions and operations;
(5) Program promotional costs such as publications, posters, or films;
(6) Technical information, documents, books, standards, codes, periodicals, and publications; and
(7) Medical surveillance programs for employees.
[45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980, as amended at 78 FR 47190, Aug. 5, 2013]
§ 1960.8
Agency responsibilities.
(a) The head of each agency shall furnish to each employee employment and a place of employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm.
(b) The head of each agency shall comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards applicable to the agency.
(c) The head of each agency shall develop, implement, and evaluate an occupational safety and health program in accordance with the requirements of section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, and the basic program elements prescribed in this part, or approved alternate program elements.
(d) The head of each agency shall acquire, maintain, and require the use of approved personal protective equipment, approved safety equipment, and other devices necessary to protect employees.
(e) In order to provide essential specialized expertise, agency heads shall authorize safety and health personnel to utilize such expertise from whatever source available, including but not limited to other agencies, professional groups, consultants, universities, labor organizations, and safety and health committees.
§ 1960.9
Supervisory responsibilities.
Employees who exercise supervisory functions shall, to the extent of their authority, furnish employees employment and a place of employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm. They shall also comply with the occupational safety and health standards applicable to their agency and with all rules, regulations, and orders issued by the head of the agency with respect to the agency occupational safety and health program.
§ 1960.10
Employee responsibilities and rights.
(a) Each employee shall comply with the standards, rules, regulations, and orders issued by his/her agency in accordance with section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, and this part which are applicable to his/her own actions and conduct.
(b) Employees shall use safety equipment, personal protective equipment, and other devices and procedures provided or directed by the agency and necessary for their protection.
(c) Employees shall have the right to report unsafe and unhealthful working conditions to appropriate officials.
(d) Employees shall be authorized official time to participate in the activities provided for in section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, this part, and the agency occupational safety and health program.
§ 1960.11
Evaluation of occupational safety and health performance.
Each agency head shall ensure that any performance evaluation of any
management official in charge of an establishment, any supervisory employee, or other appropriate management official, measures that employee's performance in meeting requirements of the agency occupational safety and health program, consistent with the employee's assigned responsibilities and authority, and taking into consideration any applicable regulations of the Office of Personnel Management or other appropriate authority. The recognition of superior performance in discharging safety and health responsibilities by an individual or group should be encouraged and noted.
§ 1960.12
Dissemination of occupational safety and health program information.
(a) Copies of the Act, Executive Order 12196, program elements published in this part, details of the agency's occupational safety and health program, and applicable safety and health standards shall be made available upon request to employees or employee representatives for review.
(b) A copy of the agency's written occupational safety and health program applicable to the establishment shall be made available to each supervisor, each occupational safety and health committee member, and to employee representatives.
(c) Each agency shall post conspicuously in each establishment, and keep posted, a poster informing employees of the provisions of the Act, Executive Order 12196, and the agency occupational safety and health program under this part. The Department of Labor will furnish the core text of a poster to agencies. Each agency shall add the following items:
(1) Details of the agency's procedures for responding to reports by employees of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions, and to allegations of discrimination or reprisal due to participation in safety and/or health activities;
(2) The location where employees may obtain information about the agency's occupational safety and health program, including the full text of agency occupational safety and health standards, and
(3) Relevant information about any agency safety and health committees.
Such posters and additions shall not be altered, defaced, or covered by other material.
(d) A copy of the agency's poster shall be provided to the Secretary. If the agency needs assistance and advice on the content and development of the poster, such shall be requested of the Secretary prior to printing and distribution.
(e) Agency heads shall promote employee awareness of occupational safety and health matters through their ordinary information channels, such as newsletters, bulletins and handbooks.

# Subpart C—Standards
§ 1960.16
Compliance with OSHA standards.
Each agency head shall comply with all occupational safety and health standards issued under section 6 of the Act, or with alternate standards issued pursuant to this subpart. In complying with section 6 standards, an agency may, upon prior notification to the Secretary, prescribe and enforce more stringent permissible exposure levels or threshold limit values and may require more frequent monitoring of exposures without recourse to the approval procedures for alternate standards described in § 1960.17. In addition, after consultation with employees and safety and health committees and prior notification to the Secretary, an agency may utilize the latest edition of a reference standard if it is more stringent than the section 6 standard. After notification, the Secretary may require the use of the approval procedures for alternate standards for any of the situations described in this paragraph.
§ 1960.17
Alternate standards.
An agency head may apply an alternate standard where deemed necessary, and shall, after consultation with employees or their representatives, including appropriate occupational safety and health committees, notify the Secretary and request approval of such alternate standards.
(a) Any request by the head of the agency for an alternate standard shall be transmitted to the Secretary.
(b) Any such request for an alternate standard shall not be approved by the Secretary unless it provides equivalent or greater protection for affected employees. Any such request shall include:
(1) A statement of why the agency cannot comply with the OSHA standard or wants to adopt an alternate standard;
(2) A description of the alternate standard;
(3) An explanation of how the alternate standard provides equivalent or greater protection for the affected employees;
(4) A description of interim protective measures afforded employees until a decision is rendered by the Secretary of Labor; and
(5) A summary of written comments, if any, from interested employees, employee representatives, and occupational safety and health committees.
§ 1960.18
Supplementary standards.
(a) In addition to complying with emergency temporary standards issued under section 6 of the Act, an agency head shall adopt such emergency temporary and permanent supplementary standards as necessary and appropriate for application to working conditions of agency employees for which there exists no appropriate OSHA standards. In order to avoid any possible duplication of effort, the agency head should notify the Secretary of the subject matter of such standard when the development of the standard begins.
(b) The agency head shall send a copy of the final draft of the permanent supplementary standard to the Secretary prior to official adoption by the agency, along with any written comments on the standard from interested employees, employee representatives, and occupational safety and health committees. If the Secretary finds the permanent supplementary standard to be adopted inconsistent with OSHA standards, or inconsistent with OSHA enforcement practices under section 5(a)(1) of the Act, the Secretary shall have 15 working days in which to notify the head of the agency of this finding. In such a case, the supplementary standard shall not be adopted, but the agency will be afforded an opportunity to resubmit a revised standard that is designed to provide adequate protection and is consistent with OSHA standards. Upon request of the agency head, the Secretary shall offer to the agency technical assistance in the development of the supplemental standard.
§ 1960.19
Other Federal agency standards affecting occupational safety and health.
(a) Where employees of different agencies engage in joint operations, and/or primarily report to work or carry out operations in the same establishment, the standards adopted under § 1960.17 or § 1960.18 of the host agency shall govern.
(b) There are situations in which the head of an agency is required to comply with standards affecting occupational safety and health issued by a Federal agency other than OSHA. For example, standards issued by the Federal Aviation Administration, the Department of Energy, or the General Services Administration may be applicable to certain Federal workplaces. Nothing in this subpart affects the duty of any agency head to comply with such standards. In addition, agency heads should comply with other standards issued by Federal agencies which deal with hazardous working conditions, but for which OSHA has no standards.
(c) Although it is not anticipated that standards of other Federal agencies will conflict with OSHA standards, should such conflict occur, the head of the agency shall inform the other Federal agency and the Secretary so that joint efforts to resolve the issues may be undertaken. However, until conflicts are resolved, agencies shall comply with the more protective of the conflicting standards.

# Subpart D—Inspection and Abatement
§ 1960.25
Qualifications of safety and health inspectors and agency inspections.
(a) Executive Order 12196 requires that each agency utilize as inspectors “personnel with equipment and competence to recognize hazards.” Inspections shall be conducted by inspectors qualified to recognize and evaluate hazards of the working environment and to suggest general abatement procedures. Safety and health specialists as defined in § 1960.2(s), with experience and/or up-to-date training in occupational safety and health hazard recognition and evaluation are considered as meeting the qualifications of safety and health inspectors. For those working environments where there are less complex hazards, such safety and health specializations as cited above may not be required, but inspectors in such environments shall have sufficient documented training and/or experience in the safety and health hazards of the workplace involved to recognize and evaluate those particular hazards and to suggest general abatement procedures. All inspection personnel must be provided the equipment necessary to conduct a thorough inspection of the workplace involved.
(b) Each agency which has workplaces containing information classified in the interest of national security shall provide access to safety and health inspectors who have obtained the appropriate security clearance.
(c) All areas and operations of each workplace, including office operations, shall be inspected at least annually. More frequent inspections shall be conducted in all workplaces where there is an increased risk of accident, injury, or illness due to the nature of the work performed. Sufficient unannounced inspections and unannounced follow-up inspections should be conducted by the agency to ensure the identification and abatement of hazardous conditions.
(d) When situations arise involving multiple agencies' responsibilities for conditions affecting employee safety and health, coordination of inspection functions is encouraged.
§ 1960.26
Conduct of inspections.
(a)
Preparation.
(1) Prior to commencement of the inspection, the Safety and Health Inspector shall be provided all available relevant information which pertains to the occupational safety and health of the workplace to be inspected, including safety and health hazard reports, injury and illness records, previous inspection reports, and reports of unsafe and unhealthful working conditions.
(2) The Safety and Health Inspector shall determine in advance, where possible, the actual work procedures and conditions to be inspected, in order to have the proper equipment available to conduct an effective inspection.
(b)
Inspection.
(1) For the purpose of assuring safe and healthful working conditions for employees of agencies, the head of the agency shall authorize safety and/or health inspectors: To enter without delay, and at reasonable times, any building, installation, facility, construction site, or other area, workplace, or environment where work is performed by employees of the agency; to inspect and investigate during regular working hours and at other reasonable times, and within reasonable limits and in a reasonable manner, any such place of employment and all pertinent conditions, structures, machines, apparatus, devices, equipment, and materials therein, and to question privately any agency employee, and/or any agency supervisory employee, and/or any official in charge of an establishment.
(2) If there are no authorized representatives of employees, the inspector shall consult with a reasonable number of employees during the walkaround.
(3) When, in the opinion of the inspector, it is necessary to conduct personal monitoring (sampling) of employee's work environments, the inspector may request employees to wear reasonable and necessary personal monitoring devices, e.g., noise dosimeters and air sampling pumps, for periods determined by the inspector to be necessary for complete and effective sampling of the environment.
(4) Upon request of the inspector, the employer shall encourage employees to
wear the personal environmental monitoring devices during an inspection.
(5) Whenever and as soon as it is concluded on the basis of an inspection that a danger exists which could reasonably be expected to cause death or serious physical harm immediately, the inspector shall inform the affected employees and official in charge of the workplace of the danger. The official in charge of the workplace, or a person empowered to act for that official, shall undertake immediate abatement and the withdrawal of employees who are not necessary for abatement of the dangerous conditions. In the event the official in charge of the workplace needs assistance to undertake full abatement, that official shall promptly contact the Designated Agency Safety and Health Official and other responsible agency officials, who shall assist the abatement effort. Safety and health committees shall be informed of all relevant actions and representatives of the employees shall be so informed.
(6) At the conclusion of an inspection, the Safety and Health Inspector shall confer with the official in charge of the workplace or that official's representative, and with an appropriate representative of the employees of the establishment, and informally advise them of any apparent unsafe or unhealthful working conditions disclosed by the inspection. During any such conference, the official in charge of the workplace and the employee representative shall be afforded an opportunity to bring to the attention of the Safety and Health Inspector any pertinent information regarding conditions in the workplace.
(c)
Written reports and notices of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions.
(1) The inspector shall, in writing, describe with particularity the procedures followed in the inspection and the findings which form the basis for the issuance of any Notice of Unsafe or Unhealthful Working Conditions.
(2) Each agency shall establish a procedure for the prompt issuance of a Notice of Unsafe or Unhealthful Working Conditions. Such notices shall be issued not later than 15 days after completion of the inspection for safety violations or not later than 30 days for health violations. If there are compelling reasons why such notice cannot be issued within the 15 days or 30 days indicated, the persons described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section shall be informed of the reasons for the delay. Such procedure shall include the following:
(i) Notices shall be in writing and shall describe with particularity the nature and degree of seriousness of the unsafe or unhealthful working condition, including a reference to the standard or other requirement involved;
(ii) The notice shall fix a reasonable time for the abatement of the unsafe or unhealthful working condition; and
(iii) A copy of the notice shall be sent to the official in charge of the workplace, the employee representative who participated in the closing conference, and/or the safety and health committee of the workplace, if any.
(3) Upon receipt of any notice of an unsafe or unhealthful working condition, the official in charge of a workplace shall immediately post such notice, or copy thereof, unedited, except for reason of national security, at or near each place an unsafe or unhealthful working condition referred to in the notice exists or existed. In addition, a notice shall be posted if any special procedures are in effect. Where, because of the nature of the workplace operations, it is not practicable to post the notice at or near each such place, such notice shall be posted, unedited, except for reason of national security, in a prominent place where it will be readily observable by all affected employees. For example, where workplace activities are physically dispersed, the notice may be posted at the location to which employees report each day. Where employees do not primarily work at or report to a single location, the notice may be posted at the location from which the employees operate to carry out their activities.
(4) Each notice of an unsafe or unhealthful working condition, or a copy thereof, shall remain posted until the unsafe or unhealthful working condition has been abated or for 3 working days whichever is later. A copy of the notice will be filed and maintained for a period of five years after abatement
at the establishment and made available to the Secretary upon request.
[45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980; 45 FR 77003, Nov. 21, 1980]
§ 1960.27
Representatives of officials in charge and representatives of employees.
(a) Safety and health inspectors shall be in charge of inspections and may interview any employee in private if the inspector deems it necessary. A representative of the official in charge of a workplace and a representative of employees shall be given an opportunity to accompany Safety and Health Inspectors during the physical inspection of any workplace, both to aid the inspection and to provide such representatives with more detailed knowledge of any existing or potential unsafe or unhealthful working conditions. The representative of employees shall be selected by the employees. Additional representatives of the official in charge and additional representatives of employees may accompany the Safety and Health Inspectors if it is determined by the inspector that such additional representatives will further aid the inspection. Different representatives of the employer and employees may be allowed to accompany the Inspector during each different phase of an inspection.
(b) Safety and health inspectors shall be authorized to deny the right of accompaniment under this section to any person whose participation interferes with a fair and orderly inspection.
(c) With regard to facilities classified in the interest of national security, only persons authorized to have access to such facilities shall be allowed to accompany a Safety and Health Inspector in such areas.
(d) Safety and health inspectors shall consult with employees concerning matters of occupational safety and health to the extent deemed necessary for the conduct of an effective and thorough inspection. During the course of an inspection, any employee shall be afforded an opportunity to bring to the attention of the Safety and Health Inspector any unsafe or unhealthful working condition which the employee has reason to believe exists in the workplace.
§ 1960.28
Employee reports of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions.
(a) The purpose of employee reports is to inform agencies of the existence of, or potential for, unsafe or unhealthful working conditions. A report under this part is not a grievance.
(b) This section provides guidance in establishing a channel of communication between agency employees and those with responsibilities for safety and health matters, e.g., their supervisor, the agency safety and health officials, safety and health committees, safety and health inspectors, the head of the agency, or the Secretary. These channels of communication are intended to assure prompt analysis and response to reports of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12196. Since many safety and health problems can be eliminated as soon as they are identified, the existence of a formal channel of communication shall not preclude immediate corrective action by an employee's supervisor in response to oral reports of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions where such action is possible. Nor should an employee be required to await the outcome of such an oral report before filing a written report pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(c) Any employee or representative of employees, who believes that an unsafe or unhealthful working condition exists in any workplace where such employee is employed, shall have the right and is encouraged to make a report of the unsafe or unhealthful working condition to an appropriate agency safety and health official and request an inspection of such workplace for this purpose. The report shall be reduced to writing either by the individual submitting the report or, in the case of an oral notification, by the above official or other person designated to receive the reports in the workplace. Any such report shall set forth the grounds for the report and shall contain the name of the employee or representative of employees. Upon the request of the individual making such report, no person shall disclose the name of the individual making the report or the names of individual employees referred to in the report, to
anyone other than authorized representatives of the Secretary. In the case of imminent danger situations, employees shall make reports by the most expeditious means available.
(d)
Reports received by the agency.
(1) Each report of an existing or potential unsafe or unhealthful working condition should be recorded on a log maintained at the establishment. If an agency finds it inappropriate to maintain a log of written reports at the establishment level, it may avail itself of procedures set forth in § 1960.71. A copy of each report received shall be sent to the appropriate establishment safety and health committee.
(2) A sequentially numbered case file, coded for identification, should be assigned for purposes of maintaining an accurate record of the report and the response thereto. As a minimum, each establishment's log should contain the following information: date, time, code/reference/file number, location of condition, brief description of the condition, classification (imminent danger, serious or other), and date and nature of action taken.
(3) Executive Order 12196 requires that agency inspections be conducted within 24 hours for employee reports of imminent danger conditions, within three working days for potentially serious conditions, and within 20 working days for other than serious safety and health conditions. However, an inspection may not be necessary if, through normal management action and with prompt notification to employees and safety and health committees, the hazardous condition(s) identified can be abated immediately.
(4) An employee submitting a report of unsafe or unhealthful conditions shall be notified in writing within 15 days if the official receiving the report determines there are not reasonable grounds to believe such a hazard exists and does not plan to make an inspection based on such report. A copy of each such notification shall be provided by the agency to the appropriate certified safety and health committee, where established under Executive Order 12196. An agency's inspection or investigation report, if any, shall be made available to the employee making the report within 15 days after completion of the inspection, for safety violations or within 30 days for health violations, unless there are compelling reasons, and shall be made available to the Secretary or the Secretary's authorized representative on request.
(e)
Reports received by the Secretary of Labor.
(1) Agency safety and health programs must have provisions for responding to employees' reports of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions and the Secretary encourages employees to use agency procedures as the most expeditious means of achieving abatement of hazardous conditions. It is recognized, however, that employee reports may be received directly by the Secretary.
(2) When such reports are received directly from an employee or employee representative, the Secretary shall, where a certified safety and health committee exists, forward the report to the agency for handling in accordance with procedures outlined in § 1960.28(d). A copy of the response to the originator shall be sent to the Secretary.
(3) Where there is no certified safety and health committee, or when requested by half the members of a committee, the Secretary may initiate an inspection or other appropriate action. When the Secretary determines that an inspection is warranted, the Secretary shall observe the same response times as required of the agencies under the Executive Order and § 1960.28(d)(3). When the Secretary determines not to make an inspection, the report shall be forwarded to the agency for handling in accordance with procedures outlined in § 1960.28(d). A copy of the response to the originator shall be sent to the Secretary.
§ 1960.29
Accident investigation.
(a) While all accidents should be investigated, including accidents involving property damage only, the extent of such investigation shall be reflective of the seriousness of the accident.
(b) In any case, each accident which results in a fatality or the hospitalization of three or more employees shall be investigated to determine the causal factors involved. Except to the extent necessary to protect employees and the
public, evidence at the scene of an accident shall be left untouched until inspectors have an opportunity to examine it.
(c) Any information or evidence uncovered during accident investigations which would be of benefit in developing a new OSHA standard or in modifying or revoking an existing standard should be promptly transmitted to the Secretary.
(d) The investigative report of the accident shall include appropriate documentation on date, time, location, description of operations, description of accident, photographs, interviews of employees and witnesses, measurements, and other pertinent information. A copy of the investigative report required by this section shall be forwarded to the official in charge of the workplace, the appropriate safety and health committee, and the exclusive employee representative, if any. The investigative report shall be made available to the Secretary or his authorized representative on request.
[45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980, as amended at 69 FR 68804, Nov. 26, 2004]
§ 1960.30
Abatement of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions.
(a) The agency shall ensure the prompt abatement of unsafe and unhealthful conditions. Where a Notice of an Unsafe or Unhealthful Working Condition has been issued, abatement shall be within the time set forth in the notice, or in accordance with the established abatement plan.
(b) The procedures for correcting unsafe or unhealthful working conditions shall include a follow-up, to the extent necessary, to determine whether the correction was made. If, upon the follow-up, it appears that the correction was not made, or was not carried out in accordance with an abatement plan prepared pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the official in charge of the establishment and the appropriate safety and health committee shall be notified of the failure to abate.
(c) The official in charge of the establishment shall promptly prepare an abatement plan with the appropriate participation of the establishment's Safety and Health Official or a designee, if in the judgment of the establishment official the abatement of an unsafe or unhealthful working condition will not be possible within 30 calendar days. Such plan shall contain an explanation of the circumstances of the delay in abatement, a proposed timetable for the abatement, and a summary of steps being taken in the interim to protect employees from being injured as a result of the unsafe or unhealthful working condition. A copy of the plan shall be sent to the safety and health committee, and, if no committee exists, to the representative of the employees. Any changes in an abatement plan will require the preparation of a new plan in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(d) When a hazard cannot be abated within the authority and resources of the official in charge of the establishment, that official shall request assistance from appropriate higher authority. The local safety and health official, any established committee and/or employee representatives, and all personnel subject to the hazard shall be advised of this action and of interim protective measures in effect, and shall be kept informed of subsequent progress on the abatement plan.
(e) When a hazard cannot be abated without assistance of the General Services Administration or other Federal lessor agency, the occupant agency shall act with the lessor agency to secure abatement. Procedures for coordination with the General Services Administration are contained in subpart E of this part.
(f) The procedures OSHA will use to verify Federal agency abatement are included in the private sector guidelines at 29 CFR 1903.19.
[45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980, as amended at 78 FR 47190, Aug. 5, 2013]
§ 1960.31
Inspections by OSHA.
(a) The Secretary or the Secretary's representatives are authorized to conduct, when the Secretary deems necessary, announced or unannounced inspections in the following situations:
(1) Where an agency has not established occupational safety and health committees or where committees no longer operate in conformance to the requirements of subpart F of this part;
(2) In response to a request from half the membership of record of any certified safety and health committee; and
(3) In response to an employee's report of an imminent danger situation, where there is a certified committee, but where the Secretary determines that neither the agency nor the committee has responded to the employee.
(b) The Secretary's inspectors or evaluators are authorized: to enter without delay, and at reasonable times, any building, installation, facility, construction site, or other area, workplace, or environment where work is performed by employees of the agency; to inspect and investigate during regular working hours and at other reasonable times, and within reasonable limits and in a reasonable manner, any such place of employment, and all pertinent conditions, structures, machines, apparatus, devices, equipment, and materials therein, and to question privately any employee, any supervisory employee, and/or any official in charge of an establishment.
(c) The Secretary may also make scheduled inspections as an integral part of OSHA's evaluation of an agency's safety and health program in accordance with subpart J of this part.
(d) OSHA inspections shall follow the general format set forth for agency inspections in other applicable parts of this subpart.

# Subpart E—General Services Administration and Other Federal Agencies
§ 1960.34
General provisions.
Within six months of the effective date of this part, the Secretary of Labor and the Administrator of the General Services Administration (GSA) shall initiate a study of conflicts that may exist in their standards concerning Federal buildings, leased space, products purchased or supplied, and other requirements affecting Federal employee safety and health. Both agencies shall establish and publish a joint procedure for resolving conflicting standards. All other Federal agencies that have authority for purchasing equipment, supplies, and materials, and for controlling Government space, as well as the leasing of space, shall also be subject to the requirements of this subpart, including publication of a procedure for resolving conflicting standards.
(a) In order to assist agencies in carrying out their duties under section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, and this part, the Administrator or the Administrator's designee shall:
(1) Upon an agency's request, furnish for any owned or leased space offered to a Federal agency for occupancy:
(i) A report of a recent pre-occupancy inspection to identify serious hazards or serious violations of OSHA standards or approved alternate standards, and
(ii) A plan for abatement of the hazards and violations discovered;
(2) Provide space which:
(i) Meets any special safety and health requirements submitted by the requesting agency, and
(ii) Does not contain either serious hazards or serious violations of OSHA standards or approved alternate standards which cannot be abated;
(3) Repair, renovate, or alter, upon an agency's request, owned or leased space in a planned and controlled manner to reduce or eliminate, whenever possible, any hazardous exposure to the occupant agency's employees;
(4) Accompany, upon request, the Secretary or the Secretary's designee on any inspection or investigation of a facility subject to the authority of the General Services Administration. Requests made for this purpose shall, whenever possible, be made at the GSA regional level in order to facilitate prompt assistance;
(5) Investigate, upon an official agency request, reports of unsafe or unhealthful conditions within the scope of GSA's responsibility. Such investigation, when requiring an on-site inspection, shall be completed within 24 hours for imminent danger situations, within three working days for potentially serious conditions, and within 20 working days for other safety and health risk conditions;
(6) Abate unsafe or unhealthful conditions disclosed by reports, investigation or inspection within 30 calendar days or submit to the occupant agency's designated liaison official an
abatement plan. Such abatement plan shall give priority to the allocation of resources to bring about prompt abatement of the conditions. (GSA shall publish procedures for abatement of hazards in the Federal Property Management Regulations—41 CFR part 101);
(7) Establish an occupancy permit program which will regulate the types of activities and occupancies in facilities in order to avoid incompatible groupings, e.g., chemical or biological laboratories in office space. GSA shall seek to consolidate Federal laboratory operations in facilities designed for such purposes;
(8) Ensure, insofar as possible, that agency safety and health problems still outstanding are resolved, or otherwise answered by acceptable alternatives prior to renegotiation of leases; and
(9) Ensure that GSA or other Federal lessor agencies' building managers maintain a log of reports of unsafe or unhealthful conditions submitted by tenants to include: date of receipt of report, action taken, and final resolution.
(b)
Product safety.
Agencies such as GSA, DOD, and others which procure and provide supplies, equipment, devices, and material for their own use or use by other agencies, except for the design of uniquely military products as set forth in § 1960.2(i), shall establish and maintain a product safety program which:
(1) Ensures that items procured will allow user agencies to use such products safely for their designed purpose and will facilitate user compliance with all applicable standards.
(2) Requires that products meet the applicable safety and health requirements of Federal law and regulations issued thereunder;
(3) Ensures that hazardous material will be labelled in accordance with current law or regulation to alert users, shippers, occupational safety and health, and emergency action personnel, and others, to basic information concerning flammability, toxicity, compatibility, first aid procedures, and normal as well as emergency handling and disposal procedures;
(4) Ensures availability of appropriate safety rescue and personal protective equipment to supply user agencies. The writing of Federal procurement specifications will be coordinated by GSA with OSHA/NIOSH as needed to assure purchase of approved products;
(5) Ensures that products recalled by the manufacturer, either voluntarily or by order from a regulatory authority, are removed from inventory. Each recall notice or order shall be forwarded to all agencies which have ordered such product from or through the procuring/supplying Federal agency, e.g., GSA, DOD, etc.;
(6) Includes preparation of FEDSTD 313, Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), involving all interested agencies in review to keep the standard current. MSDS provided by agencies or contractors shall meet the requirements of FEDSTD 313 and be furnished to DOD for filing and distribution.
(c) In order to assist agencies in carrying out their duties under section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, and this part, the DOD operates and maintains an automated system to receive, file, reproduce, and make available MSDS data to other Federal agencies through the Government Printing Office or the National Technical Information Services.
(d) All Federal agencies shall use MSDS either provided by DOD, or acquired directly from suppliers, when purchasing hazardous materials (as defined in FEDSTD 313) for local use. These data will be used to develop detailed procedures to advise employees in the workplace of the hazards involved with the materials and to protect them therefrom.
(e)
Safety and health services.
GSA will operate and maintain for user agencies the following services:
(1) Listings in the “Federal Supply Schedule” of safety and health services and equipment which are approved for use by agencies when needed. Examples of such services are: Workplace inspections, training, industrial hygiene surveys, asbestos bulk sampling, and mobile health testing; examples of such equipment are: personal protective equipment and apparel, safety devices, and environmental monitoring equipment;
(2) Rules for assistance in the preparation of agency “Occupant Emergency Plans” (formerly called “Facility Self-
Protection Plans”), to be published by GSA at 41 CFR part 101;
(3) An effective maintenance program in the Interagency Motorpool System which will ensure the safety and health of Federal employees utilizing the vehicles. Critical items to be included are: Exhaust systems, brakes, tires, lights, steering, and passenger restraint or other crash protection systems; and
(4) A rapid response system whereby agencies can alert GSA to unsafe or unhealthful items purchased or contracted for by GSA, which in turn will evaluate the reports, initiate corrective action, as appropriate, and advise use agencies of interim protective measures.
§ 1960.35
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.
(a) The Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) shall, upon request by the Secretary, assist in:
(1) Evaluations of Federal agency safety and health programs;
(2) Investigations of possible safety and health hazards and
(3) Inspections resulting from employee or committee reports of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions.
(b) The Director of NIOSH shall provide a Hazard Evaluation (HE) program for Federal agencies. This program shall be designed to respond to requests for assistance in determining whether or not safety or health hazards are present in a Federal workplace. Requests for such Hazard Evaluations may be submitted to the Director by:
(1) The Secretary of Labor;
(2) The Head of a Federal agency;
(3) An agency safety and health committee if half the committee requests such service; and
(4) Employees who are not covered by a certified safety and health committee.
(c) The Director of NIOSH may assist agencies by providing hazard alerts, technical services, training materials and conducting training programs upon request by an agency and with reimbursement.

# Subpart F—Occupational Safety and Health Committees
§ 1960.36
General provisions.
(a) The occupational safety and health committees described in this subpart are organized and maintained basically to monitor and assist an agency's safety and health program. These committees assist agencies to maintain an open channel of communication between employees and management concerning safety and health matters in agency workplaces. The committees provide a method by which employees can utilize their knowledge of workplace operations to assist agency management to improve policies, conditions, and practices.
(b) Agencies may elect to establish safety and health committees meeting the minimum requirements contained in this subpart. Where such committees are not established or fail to meet the minimum requirements established by the Secretary, the Secretary is authorized by section 1-401(i) of Executive Order 12196 to conduct unannounced inspections of agency workplaces when the Secretary determines them necessary.
§ 1960.37
Committee organization.
(a) For agencies which elect to utilize the committee concept, safety and health committees shall be formed at both the national level and, for agencies with field or regional offices, at appropriate levels within the agency. To realize exemption from unannounced OSHA inspections, an agency must form a committee at the national level and at any establishment or grouping of establishments that is to be exempt, keeping the Secretary advised of the locations and activities where such committees are functioning.
(1) The principal function of the national level committee shall be to consult and provide policy advice on, and monitor the performance of, the agency-wide safety and health program.
(2) Committees at other appropriate levels shall be established at agency establishments or groupings of establishments consistent with the mission, size and organization of the agency and its collective bargaining configuration.
The agency shall form committees at the lowest practicable local level. The principal function of the establishment (or local) committees is to monitor and assist in the execution of the agency's safety and health policies and program at the workplaces within their jurisdiction. Any dispute over the meaning of the term “appropriate levels” shall be resolved by the Secretary.
(b) Committees shall have equal representation of management and nonmanagement employees, who shall be members of record.
(1) Management members of both national level and establishment level committees shall be appointed in writing by the person empowered to make such appointments.
(2) Nonmanagement members of establishment level committees shall represent all employees of the establishment and shall be determined according to the following rules:
(i) Where employees are represented under collective bargaining arrangements, members shall be appointed from among those recommended by the exclusive bargaining representative;
(ii) Where employees are not represented under collective bargaining arrangements, members shall be determined through procedures devised by the agency which provide for effective representation of all employees; and
(iii) Where some employees of an establishment are covered under collective bargaining arrangements and others are not, members shall be representative of both groups.
(3) Nonmanagement members of national level committees shall be determined according to the following rules:
(i) Where employees are represented by organizations having exclusive recognition on an agency basis or by organizations having national consultation rights, some members shall be determined in accordance with the terms of collective bargaining agreements and some members shall be selected from those organizations having consultation rights, and
(ii) Where employees are not represented by organizations meeting the criteria of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, members shall be determined through procedures devised by the agency which provide for effective representation of all employees.
(c) Committee members should serve overlapping terms. Such terms should be of at least two years duration, except when the committee is initially organized.
(d) The committee chairperson shall be nominated from among the committee's members and shall be elected by the committee members. Management and nonmanagement members should alternate in this position. Maximum service time as chairperson should be two consecutive years.
(e) Committees shall establish a regular schedule of meetings and special meetings shall be held as necessary; establishment level committees shall meet at least quarterly and national committees shall meet at least annually.
(f) Adequate advance notice of committee meetings shall be furnished to employees and each meeting shall be conducted pursuant to a prepared agenda.
(g) Written minutes of each committee meeting shall be maintained and distributed to each committee member, and upon request, shall be made available to employees and to the Secretary.
§ 1960.38
Committee formation.
(a) Upon forming such committees, heads of agencies shall submit information to the Secretary concerning the existence, location, and coverage, in terms of establishments and population, of such committees, certifying to the Secretary that such committees meet the requirements of this subpart. The information submitted should include the name and telephone numbers of the chairperson of each committee, and should be updated annually as part of the annual report required by § 1960.74 to reflect any changes that may have occurred.
(b) If, upon evaluation, the Secretary determines that the operations of a committee do not meet the requirements of this subpart, the Secretary shall notify the agency and identify the deficiencies to be remedied. If the agency does not satisfy the Secretary within 90 days that the committee meets the requirements of this subpart,
the committee shall not be deemed a committee under Executive Order 12196 and this part.
[45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980; 45 FR 77003, Nov. 21, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 3080, Jan. 24, 1984]
§ 1960.39
Agency responsibilities.
(a) Agencies shall make available to committees all agency information relevant and necessary to their duties, except where prohibited by law. Examples of such information include, but are not limited to: The agency's safety and health policies and program; human and financial resources available to implement the program; accident, injury, and illness data; epidemiological data; employee exposure monitoring data; Material Safety Data Sheets; inspection reports; reprisal investigation reports; abatement plans; NIOSH hazard evaluation reports; and internal and external evaluation reports.
(b) Agencies shall provide all committee members appropriate training as required by subpart H of this part.
§ 1960.40
Establishment committee duties.
(a) The safety and health committee is an integral part of the safety and health program, and helps ensure effective implementation of the program at the establishment level.
(b) An establishment committee formed under this subpart shall, except where prohibited by law:
(1) Monitor and assist the safety and health program at establishments under its jurisdiction and make recommendations to the official in charge on the operation of the program;
(2) Monitor findings and reports of workplace inspections to confirm that appropriate corrective measures are implemented;
(3) When requested by the agency Safety and Health Official, or when the committee deems it necessary for effective monitoring of agency establishment inspection procedures, participate in inspections of the establishment;
(4) Review internal and external evaluation reports and make recommendations concerning the establishment safety and health program;
(5) Review, and recommend changes, as appropriate, to procedures for handling safety and health suggestions and recommendations from employees;
(6) When requested by the Designated Agency Safety and Health Official, or when the committee deems it necessary, comment on standards proposed pursuant to the provisions of subpart C of this part;
(7) Monitor and recommend changes, as required, in the level of resources allocated and spent on the establishment safety and health program;
(8) Review agency responses to reports of hazardous conditions, safety and health program deficiencies, and allegations of reprisal;
(9) Report their dissatisfaction to the Secretary if half a committee determines there are deficiencies in the establishment's safety and health program or is not satisfied with the agency's reports of reprisal investigations; and
(10) Request the Secretary to conduct an evaluation or inspection if half the members of record are not satisfied with an agency's response to a report of hazardous working conditions.
§ 1960.41
National committee duties.
National committees established under this subpart shall, except where prohibited by law:
(a) Monitor performance of the agency safety and health program and make policy recommendations to the head of the agency on the operation of the program;
(b) Monitor and assist in the development and operation of the agency's establishment committees. As the committee deems appropriate, monitor and review: Reports of inspections; internal and external evaluation reports; agency safety and health training programs; proposed agency standards; agency plans for abating hazards; and responses to reports of hazardous conditions; safety and health program deficiencies; and allegations of reprisal;
(c) Monitor and recommend changes in the resources allocated to the entire agency safety and health program;
(d) Report their dissatisfaction to the Secretary if half a committee determines there are deficiencies in the agency's safety and health program or
is not satisfied with the agency's reports of reprisal investigations; and
(e) Request the Secretary to conduct an evaluation or inspection if half the members of record are not satisfied with an agency's response to a report of hazardous working conditions.

# Subpart G—Allegations of Reprisal
§ 1960.46
Agency responsibility.
(a) The head of each agency shall establish procedures to assure that no employee is subject to restraint, interference, coercion, discrimination or reprisal for filing a report of an unsafe or unhealthful working condition, or other participation in agency occupational safety and health program activities, or because of the exercise by such employee on behalf of himself or herself or others of any right afforded by section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, or this part. These rights include, among other, the right of an employee to decline to perform his or her assigned task because of a reasonable belief that, under the circumstances the task poses an imminent risk of death or serious bodily harm coupled with a reasonable belief that there is insufficient time to seek effective redress through normal hazard reporting and abatement procedures established in accordance with this part.
(b) Based on the Secretary's evaluation of agencies' procedures for protecting employees from reprisal, the Secretary shall report to the President by September 30, 1982 his findings and recommendations for improvements in procedures for the investigation and resolution of allegations of reprisal.
§ 1960.47
Results of investigations.
Each agency shall keep occupational safety and health committees advised of agency activity regarding allegations of reprisal and any agency determinations thereof. Agency officials shall provide copies of reprisal investigation findings, if any, to the Secretary and to the appropriate safety and health committee.

# Subpart H—Training
§ 1960.54
Training of top management officials.
Each agency shall provide top management officials with orientation and other learning experiences which will enable them to manage the occupational safety and health programs of their agencies. Such orientation should include coverage of section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, the requirements of this part, and the agency safety and health program.
§ 1960.55
Training of supervisors.
(a) Each agency shall provide occupational safety and health training for supervisory employees that includes: supervisory responsibility for providing and maintaining safe and healthful working conditions for employees, the agency occupational safety and health program, section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, this part, occupational safety and health standards applicable to the assigned workplaces, agency procedures for reporting hazards, agency procedures for reporting and investigating allegations of reprisal, and agency procedures for the abatement of hazards, as well as other appropriate rules and regulations.
(b) This supervisory training should include introductory and specialized courses and materials which will enable supervisors to recognize and eliminate, or reduce, occupational safety and health hazards in their working units. Such training shall also include the development of requisite skills in managing the agency's safety and health program within the work unit, including the training and motivation of subordinates toward assuring safe and healthful work practices.
§ 1960.56
Training of safety and health specialists.
(a) Each agency shall provide occupational safety and health training for safety and health specialists through courses, laboratory experiences, field study, and other formal learning experiences to prepare them to perform the necessary technical monitoring, consulting, testing, inspecting, designing, and other tasks related to program development and implementation, as well
as hazard recognition, evaluation and control, equipment and facility design, standards, analysis of accident, injury, and illness data, and other related tasks.
(b) Each agency shall implement career development programs for their occupational safety and health specialists to enable the staff to meet present and future program needs of the agency.
§ 1960.57
Training of safety and health inspectors.
Each agency shall provide training for safety and health inspectors with respect to appropriate standards, and the use of appropriate equipment and testing procedures necessary to identify and evaluate hazards and suggest general abatement procedures during or following their assigned inspections, as well as preparation of reports and other documentation to support the inspection findings.
§ 1960.58
Training of collateral duty safety and health personnel and committee members.
Within six months after October 1, 1980, or on appointment of an employee to a collateral duty position or to a committee, each agency shall provide training for collateral duty safety and health personnel and all members of certified occupational safety and health committees commensurate with the scope of their assigned responsibilities. Such training shall include: The agency occupational safety and health program; section 19 of the Act; Executive Order 12196; this part; agency procedures for the reporting, evaluation and abatement of hazards; agency procedures for reporting and investigating allegations of reprisal, the recognition of hazardous conditions and environments; identification and use of occupational safety and health standards, and other appropriate rules and regulations.
§ 1960.59
Training of employees and employee representatives.
(a) Each agency shall provide appropriate safety and health training for employees including specialized job safety and health training appropriate to the work performed by the employee, for example: Clerical; printing; welding; crane operation; chemical analysis, and computer operations. Such training also shall inform employees of the agency occupational safety and health program, with emphasis on their rights and responsibilities.
(b) Occupational safety and health training for employees of the agency who are representatives of employee groups, such as labor organizations which are recognized by the agency, shall include both introductory and specialized courses and materials that will enable such groups to function appropriately in ensuring safe and healthful working conditions and practices in the workplace and enable them to effectively assist in conducting workplace safety and health inspections. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to alter training provisions provided by law, Executive Order, or collective bargaining arrangements.
§ 1960.60
Training assistance.
(a) Agency heads may seek training assistance from the Secretary of Labor, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health and other appropriate sources.
(b) After the effective date of Executive Order 12196, the Secretary shall, upon request and with reimbursement, conduct orientation for Designated Agency Safety and Health Officials and/or their designees which will enable them to manage the occupational safety and health programs of their agencies. Such orientation shall include coverage of section 19 of the Act, Executive Order 12196, and the requirements of this part.
(c) Upon request and with reimbursement, the Department of Labor shall provide each agency with training materials to assist in fulfilling the training needs of this subpart, including resident and field training courses designed to meet selected training needs of agency safety and health specialists, safety and health inspectors, and collateral duty safety and health personnel. These materials and courses in no way reduce each agency's responsibility to provide whatever specialized training is required by the unique characteristics of its work.
(d) In cooperation with OPM, the Secretary will develop guidelines and/or provide materials for the safety and health training programs for high-level managers, supervisors, members of committees, and employee representatives.

# Subpart I—Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements

# Source:
69 FR 68804, Nov. 26, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1960.66
Purpose, scope and general provisions.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to establish uniform requirements for collecting and compiling by agencies of occupational safety and health data, for proper evaluation and necessary corrective action, and to assist the Secretary in meeting the requirement to develop and maintain an effective program of collection, compilation, and analysis of occupational safety and health statistics.
(b) Except as modified by this subpart, Federal agency injury and illness recording and reporting requirements shall comply with the requirements under 29 CFR part 1904, subparts C, D, E, and G, except that the definition of “establishment” found in 29 CFR 1960.2(h) will remain applicable to Federal agencies.
(c) Each agency shall utilize the information collected through its management information system to identify unsafe and unhealthful working conditions, and to establish program priorities.
(d) The provisions of this subpart are not intended to discourage agencies from utilizing recordkeeping and reporting forms which contain a more detailed breakdown of information than the recordkeeping and reporting forms provided by the Department of Labor. Because of the unique nature of the national recordkeeping program, Federal agencies must have recording and reporting requirements that are the same as 29 CFR part 1904 for determining which injuries and illnesses will be entered into the records and how they are entered. All other injury and illness recording and reporting requirements used by any Federal agency may be more stringent than, or supplemental to, the requirements of 29 CFR part 1904, but must not interfere with the agency's ability to provide the injury and illness information required by 29 CFR part 1904.
(e) Information concerning occupational injuries and illnesses or accidents which, pursuant to statute or Executive Order, must be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy shall be recorded on separate forms. Such records shall not be submitted to the Department of Labor but may be used by the appropriate Federal agency in evaluating the agency's program to reduce occupational injuries, illnesses and accidents.

# Note to § 1960.66:
The recording or reporting of a work-related injury, illness or fatality does not constitute an admission that the Federal agency, or other individual was at fault or otherwise responsible for purposes of liability. Such recording or reporting does not constitute an admission of the existence of an employer/employee relationship between the individual recording the injury and the injured individual. The recording or reporting of any such injury, illness or fatality does not mean that an OSHA rule has been violated or that the individual in question is eligible for workers' compensation or any other benefits. The requirements of this part do not diminish or modify in any way a Federal agency's responsibilities to report or record injuries and illnesses as required by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA), 5 U.S.C. 8101
et seq.
(f) Retention and access of employee exposure and medical records shall be in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
[69 FR 68804, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 47190, Aug. 5, 2013]
§ 1960.67
Federal agency certification of the injury and illness annual summary (OSHA 300-A or equivalent).
As required by 29 CFR 1904.32, a company executive must certify that he or she has examined the OSHA 300 Log and that he or she believes, based on his or her knowledge of the process by which the information was recorded, that the annual summary is correct and complete. For Federal establishments, the person who performs the certification shall be one of the following:
(a) The senior establishment management official,
(b) The head of the Agency for which the senior establishment management official works, or
(c) Any management official who is in the direct chain of command between the senior establishment management official and the head of the Agency.

# Note to § 1960.67:
The requirement for certification of Federal agency injury and illness records in this section is necessary because the private sector position titles contained in 29 CFR part 1904 do not fit the Federal agency position titles for agency executives. The Federal officials listed in this section are intended to be the equivalent of the private sector officials who are required to certify records under § 1904.32(b)(4).
§ 1960.68
Prohibition against discrimination.
Section 1904.36 of this chapter refers to Section 11(c) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. For Federal agencies, the words “Section 11(c)” shall be read as “Executive Order 12196 Section 1-201(f).”

# Note to § 1960.68:
Section 11(c) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act only applies to private sector employers and the U.S. Postal Service. The corresponding prohibitions against discrimination applicable to Federal employers are contained in Section 1-201(f) of Executive Order 12196, 45 FR 12769, 3 CFR, 1980 Comp. p. 145.
§ 1960.69
Retention and updating of old forms.
Federal agencies must retain copies of the recordkeeping records utilized under the system in effect prior to January 1, 2005 for five years following the year to which they relate and continue to provide access to the data as though these forms were the OSHA Form 300 Log and Form 301 Incident Report. Agencies are not required to update the old forms.
§ 1960.70
Reporting of serious accidents.
Agencies must provide the Office of Federal Agency Programs with a summary report of each fatal and catastrophic accident investigation. The summaries shall address the date/time of accident, agency/establishment named and location, and consequences, description of operation and the accident, causal factors, applicable standards and their effectiveness, and agency corrective/preventive actions.

# Note to § 1960.70:
The requirements of this section are in addition to the requirements for reporting fatalities and multiple hospitalization incidents to OSHA under 29 CFR 1904.39.
§ 1960.71
Agency annual reports.
(a) The Act and E.O. 12196 require all Federal agency heads to submit to the Secretary an annual report on their agency's occupational safety and health program, containing such information as the Secretary prescribes.
(1) Each agency must submit to the Secretary by May 1 of each year a report describing the agency's occupational safety and health program of the previous calendar year and objectives for the current fiscal year. The report shall include a summary of the agency's self-evaluation finding as required by § 1960.78(b).
(2) The Secretary must provide the agencies with the guidelines and format for the reports at the time they are requested.
(3) The agency reports will be used in preparing the Secretary's report to the President.
(b) The Secretary will submit to the President by January 1 of each year a summary report of the status of the occupational safety and health of Federal employees based on agency reports, evaluations of individual agency progress and problems in correcting unsafe or unhealthful working conditions, and recommendations for improving their performance.
[69 FR 68804, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 47190, Aug. 5, 2013]
§ 1960.72
Reporting Federal Agency Injury and Illness Information.
(a) Each agency must submit to the Secretary by May 1 of each year all information included on the agency's previous calendar year's occupational injury and illness recordkeeping forms. The information submitted must include all data entered on the OSHA Form 300, Log of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses (or equivalent); OSHA Form 301, Injury and Illness Incident Report (or equivalent); and OSHA
Form 300A, Summary of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses (or equivalent).
(b) The Secretary must provide each agency by January 15 of each year with the format and guidelines for electronically submitting the agency's occupational injury and illness recordkeeping information.
(c) Each agency must submit to the Secretary by May 1, 2014, a list of all establishments. The list must include information about the department/agency affiliation, NAICS code, a street address, city, state and zip code. Federal agencies are also responsible for updating their list of establishments by May 1 of each year when they submit the annual report to the Secretary required by § 1960.71(a)(1).
[78 FR 47190, Aug. 5, 2013]
§ 1960.73
Federal agency injury and illness recordkeeping forms.
(a) When filling out the OSHA Form 300 or equivalent, each agency must enter the employee's OPM job series number and job title in Column (c).
(b) When recording the injuries and illnesses of uncompensated volunteers, each agency must enter a “V” before the OPM job series number in Column (c) of the OSH Form 300 log or equivalent.
(c) Each agency must calculate the total number of hours worked by uncompensated volunteers.
[78 FR 47191, Aug. 5, 2013]
§ 1960.74
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Evaluation of Federal Occupational Safety and Health Programs
§ 1960.78
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to establish a comprehensive program for the evaluation of Federal employee occupational safety and health programs. This subpart includes the responsibilities of agency heads in conducting self-evaluations of the effectiveness of their occupational safety and health programs, and the responsibilities of the Secretary in evaluating the extent to which each agency head has developed and implemented agency programs in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12196 and this part.
(b) Agency heads shall develop and implement a program for evaluating the effectiveness of their agency's occupational safety and health program. An annual summary report shall be submitted to the Secretary covering self-evaluations conducted during the previous year.
(c) The Secretary shall conduct a comprehensive evaluation of each Federal agency's occupational safety and health program. Evaluations shall be conducted on a regular schedule to determine the performance levels of each agency's program. The Secretary shall submit to the President each year: A summary report of the status of the occupational safety and health of Federal employees; Department of Labor evaluations, together with agency responses, of individual agency progress and problems in correcting unsafe and unhealthful working conditions, and recommendations for improving agency's performance.
§ 1960.79
Self-evaluations of occupational safety and health programs.
Agency heads shall develop and implement a program of self-evaluations to determine the effectiveness of their occupational safety and health programs. The self-evaluations are to include qualitative assessments of the extent to which their agency safety and health programs are:
(a) Developed in accordance with the requirements set forth in Executive Order 12196 and this part and,
(b) Implemented effectively in all agency field activities.
Agencies needing assistance in developing a self-evaluation program should contact the Secretary.
§ 1960.80
Secretary's evaluations of agency occupational safety and health programs.
(a) In accordance with section 1-401(h), the Secretary shall develop a comprehensive program for evaluating an agency's occupational safety and health program. To accomplish this, the Secretary shall conduct:
(1) A complete and extensive evaluation of all elements of an agency's occupational safety and health program on a regular basis;
(2) Special studies of limited areas of an agency's occupational safety and health program as deemed necessary by the Secretary; and
(3) Field reviews and scheduled inspections of agency workplaces as deemed necessary by the Secretary.
(b) The Secretary shall develop and distribute to Federal agencies detailed information on the Department of Labor's evaluation program. The information shall include, but is not limited to:
(1) The major program elements included in a complete and extensive evaluation of an agency's occupational safety and health program;
(2) The methods and factors used to determine the effectiveness of each element of an agency's program;
(3) The factors used to define “large” or “more hazardous” Federal agencies, establishments, or operations;
(4) The procedures for conducting evaluations including field visits and scheduled inspections; and
(5) The reporting format for agency heads in submitting annual summaries of their self-evaluation programs.
(c) Prior to the initiation of an agency evaluation, the Department of Labor will review the annual agency self-evaluation summary report. The Secretary will then develop a program evaluation plan before the initiation of an agency evaluation. A copy of the plan shall be furnished to the agency to be evaluated at the time of the notification of the evaluation.
(d) To facilitate the evaluation process and to insure full understanding of the procedures to be followed and the support required from the agency, the Secretary, or the Secretary's representative, shall conduct an opening conference with the agency head or designee. At the opening conference, the Secretary's authority and evaluation plan will be explained.
(e) The agency evaluation should be completed within 90 calendar days of the date of the opening conference.
(f) A report of the evaluation shall be submitted to the agency head by the Secretary within 90 calendar days from the date of the closing conference.
(g) Agency heads shall respond to the evaluation report within 60 calendar days of receipt of the report.
[45 FR 69798, Oct. 21, 1980; 45 FR 77003, Nov. 21, 1980]

# Subpart K—Field Federal Safety and Health Councils
§ 1960.84
Purpose.
(a) Executive Order 12196 provides that the Secretary shall “facilitate the exchange of ideas and information throughout the Government about occupational safety and health.”
(b) Consistent with this objective, the Secretary will continue to sponsor and/or provide guidance for those Field Federal Safety and Health Councils now established and in operation, and establish new field councils as necessary. The field councils will consist primarily of qualified representatives of local area Federal field activities whose duties pertain to occupational safety and health, and also of representatives of recognized local labor organizations, or other civilian employee organizations, at local area Federal field activities. For the purpose of this subpart the definition of field activity will be provided by each agency.
§ 1960.85
Role of the Secretary.
(a) The Secretary shall maintain liaison with agency heads to ensure that they encourage their field activities to participate actively in field council programs. To ensure maximum participation, the field councils' annual reports to the Secretary shall provide descriptions of the degree of management and employee participation by the defined Federal field activities. The Secretary shall annually furnish each agency head with a report consolidating the information received as to the participation of the agency's several field installations in field council activities.
(b) The Secretary shall provide leadership and guidance and make available necessary equipment, supplies, and staff services to the Field Federal Safety and Health Councils to assist
them in carrying out their responsibilities. The Secretary shall also provide consultative and technical services to field councils. These services shall involve aid in any phase of developing and planning programs; and in sponsoring, conducting or supporting safety and health training courses.
§ 1960.86
Establishing councils.
(a) Those field councils established and in operation prior to the effective date of this subpart will continue to function without interruption provided they are operating in accordance with the provision of their charter and this subpart.
(b) The Secretary may establish a council in any area where ten or more Federal establishments totaling 300 or more employees are located within an area having a radius of 50 miles, and there is substantial agreement among the agencies that such a council would be useful. In any such area where there is no council already established, a field representative of the Secretary may, upon his own initiative or at the request of any establishment within the area, contact representatives of all establishments within the area and encourage the organization of a field council.
(c) After a new council has been organized, officers elected, and articles of organization drafted and accepted by the council membership, a formal request for recognition as a field council shall be sent to the Secretary. Upon approval of the Articles of Organization, a charter will be issued.
(d) At the first general meeting of the council, committees should be appointed and the cooperation of all participants should be solicited to aid the functioning of committees and the successful accomplishment of the council's objectives.
§ 1960.87
Objectives.
The basic objective of field councils is to facilitate the exchange of ideas and information to assist agencies to reduce the incidence, severity and cost of occupational accidents, injuries, and illnesses. Field councils shall act on behalf of the Secretary or his designees on occupational safety and health activities in carrying out within their respective geographic areas the following functions:
(a) To act as a clearinghouse on information and data on occupational accidents, injuries, and illnesses and their prevention.
(b) To plan, organize and conduct field council meetings or programs which will give technical advice and information on occupational safety and health to representatives of participating agencies and employee organizations.
(c) To promote improvement of safety and health programs and organizations in each Federal agency represented or participating in council activities.
(d) To promote coordination, cooperation, and sharing of resources and expertise to aid agencies with inadequate or limited resources. These objectives can be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example, field councils could organize and conduct training programs for employee representatives, collateral duty and professional safety and health personnel, coordinate or promote programs for inspections, or, on request, conduct inspections and evaluations of the agencies' safety and health programs.
(e) To provide Federal Executive Boards, Federal Executive Associations, labor union organizations and other employee representatives with information on the administrative and technical aspects of safety and health programs.
(f) To evaluate the safety and health problems peculiar to local conditions and facilitate solutions to these problems through council activities.
(g) To develop a cooperative relationship with local community leaders by informing them of the existing functions and objectives of the council and by calling on them for support and participation in council meetings and activities.
§ 1960.88
Membership and participation.
(a) Each field council shall consist of the designated representatives of local Federal activities appointed by their respective activity heads, after consultation with appropriate employee
representatives and appropriate certified safety and health committees.
(b) Federal agency heads should encourage each field activity having responsibility for the safety and health of agency employees to participate in the programs of these councils.
(c) Each activity head shall appoint an equal number of officially designated representatives (with designated alternates), from management and from nonmanagement employees, consistent with applicable collective bargaining arrangements.
(d) Representatives shall be selected from individuals in the following categories:
(1) Federal occupational safety and health professionals.
(2) Related Federal professionals, or collateral duty personnel. This includes persons employed in professions or occupations related to or concerned with safety and health of employees.
(3) Line management officials.
(4) Representatives of recognized Federal labor or other employee organizations.
(i) Where certified occupational safety and health committees exist, nonmanagement members of the committees shall be given the opportunity to select one individual for official appointment to field councils by the activity head.
(ii) Where employees are represented by collective bargaining arrangements, but no committee exists, nonmanagement members of field councils shall be selected from among those recommended by the exclusive bargaining representatives for official appointment to field councils by the activity head.
(iii) Where some employees in an activity are represented by collective bargaining arrangements and others are not, the agency head should solicit nominations for the agency's designated nonmanagement representative and alternate both from lawful labor organization(s) with collective bargaining status and from employees not represented through collective bargaining and should select from the nominees for official appointment as designated employee representatives on the field council.
(e) Representatives from non-Federal organizations. Associate membership may be granted to any non-Federally employed person who demonstrated interest in occupational safety and health. An associate member has no voting rights and may not hold any office.
(f) No maximum limitation shall be imposed by a council on itself, in regard to the numbers of personnel in any of the above categories that may attend meetings and/or participate in field council activities. An agency is free to have any number of individuals, in addition to the officially designated representatives participate in council activities.
(g) Only officially designated agency representatives or their alternates shall have voting privileges. All representatives and participants shall serve without additional compensation.
(h) Travel funds shall be made available equally to management and nonmanagement employee representatives.
§ 1960.89
Organization.
(a) Field council officers shall include, as a minimum, a chairperson, vice chairperson, and secretary. Officers shall be elected for a one or two-year term on a calendar year basis by a majority vote of the designated representatives. Election of officers shall be held at least 60 days before the beginning of a calendar year. The election may be conducted at a regularly scheduled meeting or by letter ballot.
(b) Each council shall notify the appropriate OSHA Regional Office and the Office of Federal Agency Safety and Health Programs of the name, agency address, and telephone number of each newly elected official.
(c) Each council shall have an Executive Committee consisting of all elected officers, chairpersons of appointed committees and the immediate past chairperson of the field council.
(d) In addition to the Executive Committee, each council shall have either a membership committee, a program committee and a finance committee, or a council official designated responsibility in these areas. Additional committees may be appointed by the chairperson for specific purposes as warranted.
§ 1960.90
Operating procedures.
(a) The Executive Committee of each council shall meet at least 45 days before the beginning of each calendar year to approve an annual program for the council designed to accomplish the objectives and functions stated in § 1960.87. In addition, the Executive Committee shall meet periodically to ensure that the meetings and other activities of the council are being conducted as outlined in the council schedule.
(b) The council program shall include at least four meetings or activities per year dealing with occupational safety and health issues.
(c) Each field council shall submit to the Secretary or his designee by March 15 of each year a report describing the activities and programs of the previous calendar year and plans for the current year. In addition, the report shall address the participation and attendance of designated representatives of the council. The Office of Federal Agency Safety and Health Programs, OSHA, shall furnish guidelines to field councils concerning the preparation of this report.
(d) Upon determination that a council is not operating in accordance with its charter and the provisions of this subpart, and after consultation with appropriate OSHA regional officials, the Secretary shall revoke the council's charter. Upon revocation of a charter, the council shall surrender all its government property to the appropriate OSHA regional official. Any continuing or future organization in the same geographical area shall not use the title Field Federal Safety and Health Council, or any derivation thereof, unless formally rechartered by the Secretary. Notification of revocation of a council's charter shall be sent to the chairperson, where identifiable, and to the appropriate OSHA Regional Office.
Pt. 1975

# PART 1975—COVERAGE OF EMPLOYERS UNDER THE WILLIAMS-STEIGER OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT OF 1970
Sec.
1975.1
Purpose and scope.
1975.2
Basis of authority.
1975.3
Extent of coverage.
1975.4
Coverage.
1975.5
States and political subdivisions thereof.
1975.6
Policy as to domestic household employment activities in private residences.

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 3, 4, 8, Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651, 652, 653, 657); Secretary of Labor's Order No. 12-71 (36 FR 8754).

# Source:
37 FR 929, Jan. 21, 1972, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1975.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) Among other things, the Williams-Steiger Act poses certain duties on employers. This part has the limited purpose and scope of clarifying which persons are considered to be employers either as a matter of interpretation of the intent and terms of the Act or as a matter of policy appropriate to administering and enforcing the Act. In short, the purpose and scope of this part is to indicate which persons are covered by the Act as employers and, as such, subject to the requirements of the Act.
(b) It is not the purpose of this part to indicate the legal effect of the Act, once coverage is determined. Section 4(b)(1) of the Act provides that the statute shall be inapplicable to working conditions to the extent they are subject to another Federal agency's exercise of different statutory authority affecting the occupational safety and health aspects of those conditions. Therefore, a person may be considered an employer covered by the Act, and yet standards issued under the Act respecting certain working conditions would not be applicable to the extent those conditions were subject to another agency's authority.
§ 1975.2
Basis of authority.
The power of Congress to regulate employment conditions under the Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, is derived mainly from the Commerce Clause of the Constitution. (section 2(b), Pub. L. 91-596; U.S. Constitution, Art. I, Sec. 8, Cl. 3; “United States v. Darby,” 312 U.S. 100.) The reach of the Commerce Clause extends beyond Federal regulation of the channels and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce so as to empower Congress to regulate conditions or activities which affect commerce even though the activity or condition may itself not be commerce and may be purely intrastate in character. (“Gibbons v. Ogden,” 9 Wheat. 1, 195; “United States v. Darby,” supra; “Wickard v. Filburn,” 317 U.S. 111, 117; and “Perez v. United States,” 91 S. Ct. 1357 (1971).) And it is not necessary to prove that any particular intrastate activity affects commerce, if the activity is included in a class of activities which Congress intended to regulate because the class affects commerce. (“Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc. v. United States,” 379 U.S. 241; “Katzenbach v. McClung,” 379 U.S. 294; and “Perez v. United States,” supra.) Generally speaking, the class of activities which Congress may regulate under the commerce power may be as broad and as inclusive as Congress intends, since the commerce power is plenary and has no restrictions placed on it except specific constitutional prohibitions and those restrictions Congress, itself, places on it. (“United States v. Wrightwood Dairy Co.,” 315 U.S. 110; and “United States v. Darby,” supra.) Since there are no specific constitutional prohibitions involved, the issue is reduced to the question: How inclusive did Congress intend the class of activities to be under the Williams-Steiger Act?
§ 1975.3
Extent of coverage.
(a) Section 2(b) of the Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act (Public Law 91-596) sets forth the purpose and policy of Congress in enacting this legislation. In pertinent part, that section reads as follows:
(b) Congress declares it to be its purpose and policy, through the exercise of its powers to regulate commerce among the several States and with foreign nations and to provide for the general welfare, to assure so far as possible every working man and woman in the Nation safe and healthful working conditions and to preserve our human resources * * *
Congressman William Steiger described the scope of the Act's coverage in the following words during a discussion of the legislation on the floor of the House of Representatives:
The coverage of this bill is as broad, generally speaking, as the authority vested in the Federal Government by the commerce clause of the Constitution (Cong. Rec., vol. 116, p. H-11899, Dec. 17, 1970)
The legislative history, as a whole, clearly shows that every amendment or other proposal which would have resulted in any employee's being left outside the protections afforded by the Act was rejected. The reason for excluding no employee, either by exemption or limitation on coverage, lies in the most fundamental of social purposes of this legislation which is to protect the lives and health of human beings in the context of their employment.
(b) The Williams-Steiger Act includes special provisions (sections 19 and 18(c)(6)) for the protection of Federal and State employees to whom the Act's other provisions are made inapplicable under section 3(5), which excludes from the definition of the term “employer” both the United States and any State or political subdivision of a State.
(c) In the case of section 4(b)(1) of the Act, which makes the Act inapplicable to working conditions to the extent they are protected under laws administered by other Federal agencies, Congress did not intend to grant any general exemptions under the Act; its sole purpose was to avoid duplication of effort by Federal agencies in establishing a national policy of occupational safety and health protection.
(d) Interpretation of the provisions and terms of the Williams-Steiger Act must of necessity be consistent with the express intent of Congress to exercise its commerce power to the extent that, “so far as possible, every working man and woman in the Nation” would be protected as provided for in the Act. The words “so far as possible” refer to the practical extent to which governmental regulation and expended resources are capable of achieving safe and healthful working conditions; the words are not ones of limitation on coverage. The controlling definition for the purpose of coverage under the Act is that of “employer” contained in section 3(5). This term is defined as follows:
(5) The term “employer” means any person engaged in a business affecting commerce
who has employees, but does not include the United States or any State or political subdivision of a State.
In carrying out the broad coverage mandate of Congress, we interpret the term “business” in the above definition as including any commercial or noncommercial activity affecting commerce and involving the employment of one or more employees; the term “commerce” is defined in the Act itself, in section 3(3). Since the legislative history and the words of the statute, itself, indicate that Congress intended the full exercise of its commerce power in order to reduce employment-related hazards which, as a whole impose a substantial burden on commerce, it follows that all employments where such hazards exist or could exist (that is, those involving the employment of one or more employees) were intended to be regulated as a class of activities which affects commerce.
§ 1975.4
Coverage.
(a)
General.
Any employer employing one or more employees would be an “employer engaged in a business affecting commerce who has employees” and, therefore, he is covered by the Act as such.
(b)
Clarification as to certain employers
—(1)
The professions, such as physicians, attorneys, etc.
Where a member of a profession, such as an attorney or physician, employs one or more employees such member comes within the definition of an employer as defined in the Act and interpreted thereunder and, therefore, such member is covered as an employer under the Act and required to comply with its provisions and with the regulations issued thereunder to the extent applicable.
(2)
Agricultural employers.
Any person engaged in an agricultural activity employing one or more employees comes within the definition of an employer under the Act, and therefore, is covered by its provisions. However, members of the immediate family of the farm employer are not regarded as employees for the purposes of this definition.
(3)
Indians.
The Williams-Steiger Act contains no special provisions with respect to different treatment in the case of Indians. It is well settled that under statutes of general application, such as the Williams-Steiger Act, Indians are treated as any other person, unless Congress expressly provided for special treatment. “FPC v. Tuscarora Indian Nation,” 362 U.S. 99, 115-118 (1960); “Navajo Tribe v. N.L.R.B.,” 288 F.2d 162, 164-165 (D.C. Cir. 1961), cert. den. 366 U.S. 928 (1961). Therefore, provided they otherwise come within the definition of the term “employer” as interpreted in this part, Indians and Indian tribes, whether on or off reservations, and non-Indians on reservations, will be treated as employers subject to the requirements of the Act.
(4)
Nonprofit and charitable organizations.
The basic purpose of the Williams-Steiger Act is to improve working environments in the sense that they impair, or could impair, the lives and health of employees. Therefore, certain economic tests such as whether the employer's business is operated for the purpose of making a profit or has other economic ends, may not properly be used as tests for coverage of an employer's activity under the Williams-Steiger Act. To permit such economic tests to serve as criteria for excluding certain employers, such as nonprofit and charitable organizations which employ one or more employees, would result in thousands of employees being left outside the protections of the Williams-Steiger Act in disregard of the clear mandate of Congress to assure “every working man and woman in the Nation safe and healthful working conditions * * *”. Therefore, any charitable or non-profit organization which employs one or more employees is covered under the Williams-Steiger Act and is required to comply with its provisions and the regulations issued thereunder. (Some examples of covered charitable or non-profit organizations would be disaster relief organizations, philanthropic organizations, trade associations, private educational institutions, labor organizations, and private hospitals.)
(c)
Coverage of churches and special policy as to certain church activities
—(1)
Churches.
Churches or religious organizations, like charitable and nonprofit organizations, are considered employers under the Act where they employ
one or more persons in secular activities. As a matter of enforcement policy, the performance of, or participation in, religious services (as distinguished from secular or proprietary activities whether for charitable or religion-related purposes) will be regarded as not constituting employment under the Act. Any person, while performing religious services or participating in them in any degree is not regarded as an employer or employee under the Act, notwithstanding the fact that such person may be regarded as an employer or employee for other purposes—for example, giving or receiving remuneration in connection with the performance of religious services.
(2)
Examples.
Some examples of coverage of religious organizations as employers would be: A private hospital owned or operated by a religious organization; a private school or orphanage owned or operated by a religious organization; commercial establishments of religious organizations engaged in producing or selling products such as alcoholic beverages, bakery goods, religious goods, etc.; and administrative, executive, and other office personnel employed by religious organizations. Some examples of noncoverage in the case of religious organizations would be: Clergymen while performing or participating in religious services; and other participants in religious services; namely, choir masters, organists, other musicians, choir members, ushers, and the like.
§ 1975.5
States and political subdivisions thereof.
(a)
General.
The definition of the term “employer” in section 3(5) of the Act excludes the United States and States and political subdivisions of a State:
(5) The term “employer” means a person engaged in a business affecting commerce who has employees, but does not include the United States or any State or political subdivision of a State.
The term “State” is defined as follows in section 3(7) of the Act:
(7) The term “State” includes a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
Since States, as defined in section 3(7) of the Act, and political subdivisions thereof are not regarded as employers under section 3(5) of the Act, they would not be covered as employers under the Act, except to the extent that section 18(c)(6), and the pertinent regulations thereunder, require as a condition of approval by the Secretary of Labor of a State plan that such plan:
(6) Contain[s] satisfactory assurances that such State will, to the extent permitted by its law, establish and maintain an effective and comprehensive occupational safety and health program applicable to all employees of public agencies of the State and its political subdivisions, which program is as effective as the standards contained in an approved plan.
(b)
Tests.
Any entity which has been (1) created directly by the State, so as to constitute a department or administrative arm of the government, or (2) administered by individuals who are controlled by public officials and responsible to such officials or to the general electorate, shall be deemed to be a “State or political subdivision thereof” under section 3(5) of the Act and, therefore, not within the definition of employer, and, consequently, not subject to the Act as an employer.
(c)
Factors for meeting the tests.
Various factors will be taken into consideration in determining whether an entity meets the test discussed above. Some examples of these factors are:
Are the individuals who administer the entity appointed by a public official or elected by the general electorate?
What are the terms and conditions of the appointment?
Who may dismiss such individuals and under what procedures?
What is the financial source of the salary of these individuals?
Does the entity earn a profit? Are such profits treated as revenue?
How are the entity's functions financed? What are the powers of the entity and are they usually characteristic of a government rather than a private instrumentality like the power of eminent domain?
How is the entity regarded under State and local law as well as under other Federal laws?
Is the entity exempted from State and local tax laws?
Are the entity's bonds, if any, tax-exempt? As to the entity's employees, are they regarded like employees of other State and political subdivisions?
What is the financial source of the employee-payroll?
How do employee fringe benefits, rights, obligations, and restrictions of the entity's employees compare to those of the employees of other State and local departments and agencies?
In evaluating these factors, due regard will be given to whether any occupational safety and health program exists to protect the entity's employees.
(d)
Weight of the factors.
The above list of factors is not exhaustive and no factor, isolated from the particular facts of a case, is assigned any particular weight for the purpose of a determination by the Secretary of Labor as to whether a given entity is a “State or political subdivision of a State” and, as such, not subject to the Act as an “employer”. Each case must be viewed on its merits; and whether a single factor will be decisive, or whether the factors must be viewed in their relationship to each other as part of a sum total, also depends on the merits of each case.
(e)
Examples.
(1) The following types of entities would normally be regarded as not being employers under section 3(5) of the Act: the State Department of Labor and Industry; the State Highway and Motor Vehicle Department; State, county, and municipal law enforcement agencies as well as penal institutions; State, county, and municipal judicial bodies; State University Boards of Trustees; State, county, and municipal public school boards and commissions; and public libraries.
(2) Depending on the facts in the particular situation, the following types of entities would probably be excluded as employers under section 3(5) of the Act: harbor districts, irrigation districts, port authorities, bi-State authorities over bridges, highways, rivers, harbors, etc.; municipal transit entities; and State, county, and local hospitals and related institutions.
(3) The following examples are of entities which would normally not be regarded as a “State or political subdivision of a State”, but unusual factors to the contrary in a particular case may indicate otherwise: Public utility companies, merely regulated by State or local bodies; businesses, such as alcoholic beverage distributors, licensed under State or local law; other business entities which under agreement perform certain functions for the State, such as gasoline stations conducting automobile inspections for State and county governments.
§ 1975.6
Policy as to domestic household employment activities in private residences.
As a matter of policy, individuals who, in their own residences, privately employ persons for the purpose of performing for the benefit of such individuals what are commonly regarded as ordinary domestic household tasks, such as house cleaning, cooking, and caring for children, shall not be subject to the requirements of the Act with respect to such employment.
Pt. 1977

# PART 1977—DISCRIMINATION AGAINST EMPLOYEES EXERCISING RIGHTS UNDER THE WILLIAMS-STEIGER OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT OF 1970

# General
Sec.
1977.1
Introductory statement.
1977.2
Purpose of this part.
1977.3
General requirements of section 11(c) of the Act.
1977.4
Persons prohibited from discriminating.
1977.5
Persons protected by section 11(c).
1977.6
Unprotected activities distinguished.

# Specific Protections
1977.9
Complaints under or related to the Act.
1977.10
Proceedings under or related to the Act.
1977.11
Testimony.
1977.12
Exercise of any right afforded by the Act.

# Procedures
1977.15
Filing of complaint for discrimination.
1977.16
Notification of Secretary of Labor's determination.
1977.17
Withdrawal of complaint.
1977.18
Arbitration or other agency proceedings.

# Some Specific Subjects
1977.22
Employee refusal to comply with safety rules.
1977.23
State plans.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 657, 660; 5 U.S.C. 553; and Secretary of Labor's Order No. 08-2020 (85 FR 58393), 9-83 (48 FR 35736), or 12-71 (36 FR 8754), as applicable.

# Source:
38 FR 2681, Jan. 29, 1973, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 1977.1
Introductory statement.
(a) The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
), hereinafter referred to as the Act, is a Federal statute of general application designed to regulate employment conditions relating to occupational safety and health and to achieve safer and healthier workplaces throughout the Nation. By terms of the Act, every person engaged in a business affecting commerce who has employees is required to furnish each of his employees employment and a place of employment free from recognized hazards that are causing or likely to cause death or serious physical harm, and, further, to comply with occupational safety and health standards promulgated under the Act. See part 1975 of this chapter concerning coverage of the Act.
(b) The Act provides, among other things, for the adoption of occupational safety and health standards, research and development activities, inspections and investigations of workplaces, and recordkeeping requirements. Enforcement procedures initiated by the Department of Labor, review proceedings before an independent quasi-judicial agency (the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission), and express judicial review are provided by the Act. In addition, States which desire to assume responsibility for development and enforcement of standards which are at least as effective as the Federal standards published in this chapter may submit plans for such development and enforcement of the Secretary of Labor.
(c) Employees and representatives of employees are afforded a wide range of substantive and procedural rights under the Act. Moreover, effective implementation of the Act and achievement of its goals depend in large part upon the active but orderly participation of employees, individually and through their representatives, at every level of safety and health activity.
(d) This part deals essentially with the rights of employees afforded under section 11(c) of the Act. Section 11(c) of the Act prohibits reprisals, in any form, against employees who exercise rights under the Act.
§ 1977.2
Purpose of this part.
The purpose of this part is to make available in one place interpretations of the various provisions of section 11(c) of the Act which will guide the Secretary of Labor in the performance of his duties thereunder unless and until otherwise directed by authoritative decisions of the courts, or concluding, upon reexamination of an interpretation, that it is incorrect.
§ 1977.3
General requirements of section 11(c) of the Act.
Section 11(c) provides in general that no person shall discharge or in any manner discriminate against any employee because the employee has:
(a) Filed any complaint under or related to the Act;
(b) Instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related to the Act;
(c) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under the Act or related to the Act; or
(d) Exercised on his own behalf or on behalf of others any right afforded by the Act.
Any employee who believes that he has been discriminated against in violation of section 11(c) of the Act may, within 30 days after such violation occurs, lodge a complaint with the Secretary of Labor alleging such violation. The Secretary shall then cause appropriate investigation to be made. If, as a result of such investigation, the Secretary determines that the provisions of section 11(c) have been violated civil action may be instituted in any appropriate United States district court, to restrain violations of section 11(c)(1) and to obtain other appropriate relief, including rehiring or reinstatement of the employee to his former position with back pay. Section 11(c) further provides for notification of complainants by the Secretary of determinations made pursuant to their complaints.
§ 1977.4
Persons prohibited from discriminating.
Section 11(c) specifically states that “no person shall discharge or in any manner discriminate against any employee” because the employee has exercised rights under the Act. Section 3(4) of the Act defines “person” as “one or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, business trusts, legal representatives, or any group of persons.” Consequently, the prohibitions of section 11(c) are not limited to actions taken by employers against their own employees. A person may be chargeable with discriminatory action against an employee of another person. Section 11(c) would extend to such entities as organizations representing employees for collective bargaining purposes, employment agencies, or any other person in a position to discriminate against an employee. See,
Meek
v.
United States,
136 F. 2d 679 (6th Cir., 1943);
Bowe
v.
Judson C. Burns,
137 F. 2d 37 (3rd Cir., 1943).
§ 1977.5
Persons protected by section 11(c).
(a) All employees are afforded the full protection of section 11(c). For purposes of the Act, an employee is defined as “an employee of an employer who is employed in a business of his employer which affects commerce.” The Act does not define the term “employ.” However, the broad remedial nature of this legislation demonstrates a clear congressional intent that the existence of an employment relationship, for purposes of section 11(c), is to be based upon economic realities rather than upon common law doctrines and concepts. See,
U.S.
v.
Silk,
331 U.S. 704 (1947);
Rutherford Food Corporation
v.
McComb,
331 U.S. 722 (1947).
(b) For purposes of section 11(c), even an applicant for employment could be considered an employee. See,
NLRB
v.
Lamar Creamery,
246 F. 2d 8 (5th Cir., 1957). Further, because section 11(c) speaks in terms of any employee, it is also clear that the employee need not be an employee of the discriminator. The principal consideration would be whether the person alleging discrimination was an “employee” at the time of engaging in protected activity.
(c) In view of the definitions of “employer” and “employee” contained in the Act, employees of a State or political subdivision thereof would not ordinarily be within the contemplated coverage of section 11(c).
§ 1977.6
Unprotected activities distinguished.
(a) Actions taken by an employer, or others, which adversely affect an employee may be predicated upon nondiscriminatory grounds. The proscriptions of section 11(c) apply when the adverse action occurs because the employee has engaged in protected activities. An employee's engagement in activities protected by the Act does not automatically render him immune from discharge or discipline for legitimate reasons, or from adverse action dictated by non-prohibited considerations. See,
NLRB
v.
Dixie Motor Coach Corp.,
128 F. 2d 201 (5th Cir., 1942).
(b) At the same time, to establish a violation of section 11(c), the employee's engagement in protected activity need not be the sole or primary consideration behind discharge or other adverse action. If the discharge or other adverse action would not have taken place “but for” engagement in protected activity, section 11(c) has been violated. See
Bostock
v.
Clay County, Ga.,
140 S Ct. 1731, 1739 (2020);
Univ. of Tex. Sw. Med. Ctr.
v.
Nassar,
570 U.S. 338 (2013). Ultimately, the issue as to whether a discharge or other adverse action was because of protected activity will have to be determined on the basis of the facts in the particular case.
[38 FR 2681, Jan. 29, 1973, as amended at 86 FR 49476, Sept. 3, 2021]

# Specific Protections
§ 1977.9
Complaints under or related to the Act.
(a) Discharge of, or discrimination against, an employee because the employee has filed “any complaint * * * under or related to this Act * * *” is prohibited by section 11(c). An example of a complaint made “under” the Act would be an employee request for inspection pursuant to section 8(f). However, this would not be the only type of complaint protected by section 11(c). The range of complaints “related to”
the Act is commensurate with the broad remedial purposes of this legislation and the sweeping scope of its application, which entails the full extent of the commerce power. (See Cong. Rec., vol. 116 p. P. 42206 Dec. 17, 1970).
(b) Complaints registered with other Federal agencies which have the authority to regulate or investigate occupational safety and health conditions are complaints “related to” this Act. Likewise, complaints made to State or local agencies regarding occupational safety and health conditions would be “related to” the Act. Such complaints, however, must relate to conditions at the workplace, as distinguished from complaints touching only upon general public safety and health.
(c) Further, the salutary principles of the Act would be seriously undermined if employees were discouraged from lodging complaints about occupational safety and health matters with their employers. (Section 2(1), (2), and (3)). Such complaints to employers, if made in good faith, therefore would be related to the Act, and an employee would be protected against discharge or discrimination caused by a complaint to the employer.
§ 1977.10
Proceedings under or related to the Act.
(a) Discharge of, or discrimination against, any employee because the employee has “instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related to this Act” is also prohibited by section 11(c). Examples of proceedings which could arise specifically under the Act would be inspections of worksites under section 8 of the Act, employee contest of abatement date under section 10(c) of the Act, employee initiation of proceedings for promulgation of an occupational safety and health standard under section 6(b) of the Act and part 1911 of this chapter, employee application for modification of revocation of a variance under section 6(d) of the Act and part 1905 of this chapter, employee judicial challenge to a standard under section 6(f) of the Act and employee appeal of an Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission order under section 11(a) of the Act. In determining whether a “proceeding” is “related to” the Act, the considerations discussed in § 1977.9 would also be applicable.
(b) An employee need not himself directly institute the proceedings. It is sufficient if he sets into motion activities of others which result in proceedings under or related to the Act.
§ 1977.11
Testimony.
Discharge of, or discrimination against, any employee because the employee “has testified or is about to testify” in proceedings under or related to the Act is also prohibited by section 11(c). This protection would of course not be limited to testimony in proceedings instituted or caused to be instituted by the employee, but would extend to any statements given in the course of judicial, quasi-judicial, and administrative proceedings, including inspections, investigations, and administrative rule making or adjudicative functions. If the employee is giving or is about to give testimony in any proceeding under or related to the Act, he would be protected against discrimination resulting from such testimony.
§ 1977.12
Exercise of any right afforded by the Act.
(a) In addition to protecting employees who file complaints, institute proceedings, or testify in proceedings under or related to the Act, section 11(c) also protects employees from discrimination occurring because of the exercise “of any right afforded by this Act.” Certain rights are explicitly provided in the Act; for example, there is a right to participate as a party in enforcement proceedings (section 10). Certain other rights exist by necessary implication. For example, employees may request information from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; such requests would constitute the exercise of a right afforded by the Act. Likewise, employees interviewed by agents of the Secretary in the course of inspections or investigations could not subsequently be discriminated against because of their cooperation.
(b)(1) On the other hand, review of the Act and examination of the legislative history discloses that, as a general matter, there is no right afforded by the Act which would entitle employees
to walk off the job because of potential unsafe conditions at the workplace. Hazardous conditions which may be violative of the Act will ordinarily be corrected by the employer, once brought to his attention. If corrections are not accomplished, or if there is dispute about the existence of a hazard, the employee will normally have opportunity to request inspection of the workplace pursuant to section 8(f) of the Act, or to seek the assistance of other public agencies which have responsibility in the field of safety and health. Under such circumstances, therefore, an employer would not ordinarily be in violation of section 11(c) by taking action to discipline an employee for refusing to perform normal job activities because of alleged safety or health hazards.
(2) However, occasions might arise when an employee is confronted with a choice between not performing assigned tasks or subjecting himself to serious injury or death arising from a hazardous condition at the workplace. If the employee, with no reasonable alternative, refuses in good faith to expose himself to the dangerous condition, he would be protected against subsequent discrimination. The condition causing the employee's apprehension of death or injury must be of such a nature that a reasonable person, under the circumstances then confronting the employee, would conclude that there is a real danger of death or serious injury and that there is insufficient time, due to the urgency of the situation, to eliminate the danger through resort to regular statutory enforcement channels. In addition, in such circumstances, the employee, where possible, must also have sought from his employer, and been unable to obtain, a correction of the dangerous condition.
[38 FR 2681, Jan. 29, 1973, as amended at 38 FR 4577, Feb. 16, 1973]

# Procedures
§ 1977.15
Filing of complaint for discrimination.
(a)
Who may file.
A complaint of section 11(c) discrimination may be filed by the employee himself, or by a representative authorized to do so on his behalf.
(b)
Nature of filing.
No particular form of complaint is required.
(c)
Place of filing.
Complaint should be filed with the Area Director (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) responsible for enforcement activities in the geographical area where the employee resides or was employed.
(d)
Time for filing.
(1) Section 11(c)(2) provides that an employee who believes that he has been discriminated against in violation of section 11(c)(1) “may, within 30 days after such violation occurs,” file a complaint with the Secretary of Labor.
(2) A major purpose of the 30-day period in this provision is to allow the Secretary to decline to entertain complaints which have become stale. Accordingly, complaints not filed within 30 days of an alleged violation will ordinarily be presumed to be untimely.
(3) However, there may be circumstances which would justify tolling of the 30-day period on recognized equitable principles or because of strongly extenuating circumstances, e.g., where the employer has concealed, or misled the employee regarding the grounds for discharge or other adverse action; or where the discrimination is in the nature of a continuing violation. The pendency of grievance-arbitration proceedings or filing with another agency, among others, are circumstances which do not justify tolling the 30-day period. In the absence of circumstances justifying a tolling of the 30-day period, untimely complaints will not be processed.
[38 FR 2681, Jan. 29, 1973, as amended at 50 FR 32846, Aug. 15, 1985]
§ 1977.16
Notification of Secretary of Labor's determination.
Section 11(c)(3) provides that the Secretary is to notify a complainant within 90 days of the complaint of his determination whether prohibited discrimination has occurred. This 90-day provision is considered directory in nature. While every effort will be made to notify complainants of the Secretary's determination within 90 days, there
may be instances when it is not possible to meet the directory period set forth in section 11(c)(3).
§ 1977.17
Withdrawal of complaint.
Enforcement of the provisions of section 11(c) is not only a matter of protecting rights of individual employees, but also of public interest. Attempts by an employee to withdraw a previously filed complaint will not necessarily result in termination of the Secretary's investigation. The Secretary's jurisdiction cannot be foreclosed as a matter of law by unilateral action of the employee. However, a voluntary and uncoerced request from a complainant to withdraw his complaint will be given careful consideration and substantial weight as a matter of policy and sound enforcement procedure.
§ 1977.18
Arbitration or other agency proceedings.
(a)
General.
(1) An employee who files a complaint under section 11(c) of the Act may also pursue remedies under grievance arbitration proceedings in collective bargaining agreements. In addition, the complainant may concurrently resort to other agencies for relief, such as the National Labor Relations Board. The Secretary's jurisdiction to entertain section 11(c) complaints, to investigate, and to determine whether discrimination has occurred, is independent of the jurisdiction of other agencies or bodies. The Secretary may file action in U.S. district court regardless of the pendency of other proceedings.
(2) However, the Secretary also recognizes the national policy favoring voluntary resolution of disputes under procedures in collective bargaining agreements. See, e.g.,
Boy's Markets, Inc.
v.
Retail Clerks,
398 U.S. 235 (1970);
Republic Steel Corp.
v.
Maddox,
379 U.S. 650 (1965);
Carey
v.
Westinghouse Electric Co.,
375 U.S. 261 (1964); Collier Insulated Wire, 192 NLRB No. 150 (1971). By the same token, due deference should be paid to the jurisdiction of other forums established to resolve disputes which may also be related to section 11(c) complaints.
(3) Where a complainant is in fact pursuing remedies other than those provided by section 11(c), postponement of the Secretary's determination and deferral to the results of such proceedings may be in order. See,
Burlington Truck Lines, Inc.,
v.
U.S.,
371 U.S. 156 (1962).
(b)
Postponement of determination.
Postponement of determination would be justified where the rights asserted in other proceedings are substantially the same as rights under section 11(c) and those proceedings are not likely to violate the rights guaranteed by section 11(c). The factual issues in such proceedings must be substantially the same as those raised by section 11(c) complaint, and the forum hearing the matter must have the power to determine the ultimate issue of discrimination. See
Rios
v.
Reynolds Metals Co.,
F.2d (5th Cir., 1972), 41 U.S.L.W. 1049 (Oct. 10, 1972);
Newman
v.
Avco Corp.,
451 F.2d 743 (6th Cir., 1971).
(c)
Deferral to outcome of other proceedings.
A determination to defer to the outcome of other proceedings initiated by a complainant must necessarily be made on a case-to-case basis, after careful scrutiny of all available information. Before deferring to the results of other proceedings, it must be clear that those proceedings dealt adequately with all factual issues, that the proceedings were fair, regular, and free of procedural infirmities, and that the outcome of the proceedings was not repugnant to the purpose and policy of the Act. In this regard, if such other actions initiated by a complainant are dismissed without adjudicatory hearing thereof, such dismissal will not ordinarily be regarded as determinative of the section 11(c) complaint.

# Some Specific Subjects
§ 1977.22
Employee refusal to comply with safety rules.
Employees who refuse to comply with occupational safety and health standards or valid safety rules implemented by the employer in furtherance of the Act are not exercising any rights afforded by the Act. Disciplinary measures taken by employers solely in response to employee refusal to comply with appropriate safety rules and regulations, will not ordinarily be regarded as discriminatory action prohibited by
section 11(c). This situation should be distinguished from refusals to work, as discussed in § 1977.12.
§ 1977.23
State plans.
A State which is implementing its own occupational safety and health enforcement program pursuant to section 18 of the Act and parts 1902 and 1952 of this chapter must have provisions as effective as those of section 11(c) to protect employees from discharge or discrimination. Such provisions do not divest either the Secretary of Labor or Federal district courts of jurisdiction over employee complaints of discrimination. However, the Secretary of Labor may refer complaints of employees adequately protected by State Plans' provisions to the appropriate state agency. The basic principles outlined in § 1977.18, supra will be observed as to deferrals to findings of state agencies.
Pt. 1978

# PART 1978—PROCEDURES FOR THE HANDLING OF RETALIATION COMPLAINTS UNDER THE EMPLOYEE PROTECTION PROVISION OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1982 (STAA), AS AMENDED

# Subpart A—Complaints, Investigations, Findings, and Preliminary Orders
Sec.
1978.100
Purpose and scope.
1978.101
Definitions.
1978.102
Obligations and prohibited acts.
1978.103
Filing of retaliation complaints.
1978.104
Investigation.
1978.105
Issuance of findings and preliminary orders.

# Subpart B—Litigation
1978.106
Objections to the findings and the preliminary order and request for a hearing.
1978.107
Hearings.
1978.108
Role of Federal agencies.
1978.109
Decisions and orders of the administrative law judge.
1978.110
Decisions and orders of the Administrative Review Board.

# Subpart C—Miscellaneous Provisions
1978.111
Withdrawal of STAA complaints, findings, objections, and petitions for review; settlement.
1978.112
Judicial review.
1978.113
Judicial enforcement.
1978.114
District court jurisdiction of retaliation complaints under STAA.
1978.115
Special circumstances; waiver of rules.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 31101 and 31105; Secretary's Order 1-2012 (Jan. 18, 2012), 77 FR 3912 (Jan. 25, 2012); Secretary's Order 01-2020, 85 FR 13186 (March 6, 2020).

# Source:
77 FR 44134, July 27, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Complaints, Investigations, Findings, and Preliminary Orders
§ 1978.100
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part sets forth, the procedures for, and interpretations of, the employee protection (whistleblower) provision of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (STAA), 49 U.S.C. 31105, as amended, which protects employees from retaliation because the employee has engaged in, or is perceived to have engaged in, protected activity pertaining to commercial motor vehicle safety, health, or security matters.
(b) This part establishes procedures under STAA for the expeditious handling of retaliation complaints filed by employees, or by persons acting on their behalf. These rules, together with those rules codified at 29 CFR part 18, set forth the procedures for submission of complaints, investigations, issuance of findings and preliminary orders, objections to findings and orders, litigation before administrative law judges (ALJs), post-hearing administrative review, and withdrawals and settlements. This part also sets forth interpretations of STAA.
§ 1978.101
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (STAA), as amended.
(b)
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or the person or persons to whom he or she delegates authority under the Act.
(c)
Business days
means days other than Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.
(d)
Commercial motor carrier
means any person engaged in a business affecting commerce between States or between a State and a place outside thereof who owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle in connection with that business, or assigns employees to operate such a vehicle.
(e)
Commercial motor vehicle
means a vehicle as defined by 49 U.S.C. 31101(1).
(f)
Complainant
means the employee who filed a STAA complaint or on whose behalf a complaint was filed.
(g)
Complaint,
for purposes of § 1978.102(b)(1) and (e)(1), includes both written and oral complaints to employers, government agencies, and others.
(h)
Employee
means a driver of a commercial motor vehicle (including an independent contractor when personally operating a commercial motor vehicle), a mechanic, a freight handler, or an individual not an employer, who:
(1) Directly affects commercial motor vehicle safety or security in the course of employment by a commercial motor carrier; and
(2) Is not an employee of the United States Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State acting in the course of employment.
(3) The term includes an individual formerly performing the work described above or an applicant for such work.
(i)
Employer
means a person engaged in a business affecting commerce that owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle in connection with that business, or assigns an employee to operate the vehicle in commerce, but does not include the Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State.
(j)
OSHA
means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor.
(k)
Person
means one or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, business trusts, legal representatives, or any other organized group of individuals.
(l)
Respondent
means the person alleged to have violated 49 U.S.C. 31105.
(m)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor or persons to whom authority under the Act has been delegated.
(n)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
(o) Any future statutory amendments that affect the definition of a term or terms listed in this section will apply in lieu of the definition stated herein.
§ 1978.102
Obligations and prohibited acts.
(a) No person may discharge or otherwise retaliate against any employee with respect to the employee's compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because the employee engaged in any of the activities specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section. In addition, no person may discharge or otherwise retaliate against any employee with respect to the employee's compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because a person acting pursuant to the employee's request engaged in any of the activities specified in paragraph (b).
(b) It is a violation for any person to intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, discipline, harass, suspend, demote, or in any other manner retaliate against any employee because the employee or a person acting pursuant to the employee's request has:
(1) Filed orally or in writing a complaint with an employer, government agency, or others or begun a proceeding related to a violation of a commercial motor vehicle safety or security regulation, standard, or order; or
(2) Testified or will testify at any proceeding related to a violation of a commercial motor vehicle safety or security regulation, standard, or order.
(c) It is a violation for any person to intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, discipline, harass, suspend, demote, or in any other manner retaliate against any employee because the employee:
(1) Refuses to operate a vehicle because:
(i) The operation violates a regulation, standard, or order of the United States related to commercial motor vehicle safety, health, or security; or
(ii) He or she has a reasonable apprehension of serious injury to himself or
herself or the public because of the vehicle's hazardous safety or security condition;
(2) Accurately reports hours on duty pursuant to Chapter 315 of Title 49 of the United States Code; or
(3) Cooperates with a safety or security investigation by the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the National Transportation Safety Board; or
(4) Furnishes information to the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the National Transportation Safety Board, or any Federal, State, or local regulatory or law enforcement agency as to the facts relating to any accident or incident resulting in injury or death to an individual or damage to property occurring in connection with commercial motor vehicle transportation.
(d) No person may discharge or otherwise retaliate against any employee with respect to the employee's compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because the person perceives that the employee has engaged in any of the activities specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) It is a violation for any person to intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, discipline, harass, suspend, demote, or in any other manner retaliate against any employee because the employer perceives that:
(1) The employee has filed orally or in writing or is about to file orally or in writing a complaint with an employer, government agency, or others or has begun or is about to begin a proceeding related to a violation of a commercial motor vehicle safety or security regulation, standard or order;
(2) The employee is about to cooperate with a safety or security investigation by the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or the National Transportation Safety Board; or
(3) The employee has furnished or is about to furnish information to the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the National Transportation Safety Board, or any Federal, State, or local regulatory or law enforcement agency as to the facts relating to any accident or incident resulting in injury or death to an individual or damage to property occurring in connection with commercial motor vehicle transportation.
(f) For purposes of this section, an employee's apprehension of serious injury is reasonable only if a reasonable individual in the circumstances then confronting the employee would conclude that the hazardous safety or security condition establishes a real danger of accident, injury or serious impairment to health. To qualify for protection, the employee must have sought from the employer, and been unable to obtain, correction of the hazardous safety or security condition.
§ 1978.103
Filing of retaliation complaints.
(a)
Who may file.
An employee who believes that he or she has been retaliated against by an employer in violation of STAA may file, or have filed by any person on the employee's behalf, a complaint alleging such retaliation.
(b)
Nature of filing.
No particular form of complaint is required. A complaint may be filed orally or in writing. Oral complaints will be reduced to writing by OSHA. If the complainant is unable to file a complaint in English, OSHA will accept the complaint in any other language.
(c)
Place of filing.
The complaint should be filed with the OSHA office responsible for enforcement activities in the geographical area where the employee resides or was employed, but may be filed with any OSHA officer or employee. Addresses and telephone numbers for these officials are set forth in local directories and at the following Internet address:
http://www.osha.gov.
(d)
Time for filing.
Within 180 days after an alleged violation of STAA occurs, any employee who believes that he or she has been retaliated against in violation of STAA may file, or have filed by any person on the employee's behalf, a complaint alleging such retaliation. The date of the postmark, facsimile transmittal, electronic communication transmittal, telephone call, hand-delivery, delivery to a third-party commercial carrier, or in-person filing at an OSHA office will be considered the date of filing. The time for filing a
complaint may be tolled for reasons warranted by applicable case law.
(e)
Relationship to section 11(c) complaints.
A complaint filed under STAA alleging facts that would also constitute a violation of section 11(c) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 U.S.C. 660(c), will be deemed to be a complaint under both STAA and section 11(c). Similarly, a complaint filed under section 11(c) that alleges facts that would also constitute a violation of STAA will be deemed to be a complaint filed under both STAA and section 11(c). Normal procedures and timeliness requirements under the respective statutes and regulations will be followed.
§ 1978.104
Investigation.
(a) Upon receipt of a complaint in the investigating office, the Assistant Secretary will notify the respondent of the filing of the complaint by providing the respondent with a copy of the complaint, redacted in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a and other applicable confidentiality laws. The Assistant Secretary will also notify the respondent of the respondent's rights under paragraphs (b) and (f) of this section. The Assistant Secretary will provide a copy of the unredacted complaint to the complainant (or complainant's legal counsel, if complainant is represented by counsel) and to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.
(b) Within 20 days of receipt of the notice of the filing of the complaint provided under paragraph (a) of this section, the respondent may submit to the Assistant Secretary a written statement and any affidavits or documents substantiating its position. Within the same 20 days, the respondent may request a meeting with the Assistant Secretary to present its position.
(c) Throughout the investigation, the agency will provide to the complainant (or the complainant's legal counsel, if complainant is represented by counsel) a copy of all of respondent's submissions to the agency that are responsive to the complainant's whistleblower complaint. Before providing such materials to the complainant, the agency will redact them, if necessary, in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and other applicable confidentiality laws. The agency will also provide the complainant with an opportunity to respond to such submissions.
(d) Investigations will be conducted in a manner that protects the confidentiality of any person who provides information on a confidential basis, other than the complainant, in accordance with part 70 of this title.
(e)(1) A complaint will be dismissed unless the complainant has made a prima facie showing that protected activity was a contributing factor in the adverse action alleged in the complaint.
(2) The complaint, supplemented as appropriate by interviews of the complainant, must allege the existence of facts and evidence to make a prima facie showing as follows:
(i) The employee engaged in a protected activity, either actual activity or activity about to be undertaken;
(ii) The respondent knew or suspected, actually or constructively, that the employee engaged in the protected activity;
(iii) The employee suffered an adverse action; and
(iv) The circumstances were sufficient to raise the inference that the protected activity was a contributing factor in the adverse action.
(3) For purposes of determining whether to investigate, the complainant will be considered to have met the required burden if the complaint on its face, supplemented as appropriate through interviews of the complainant, alleges the existence of facts and either direct or circumstantial evidence to meet the required showing,
i.e.,
to give rise to an inference that the respondent knew or suspected that the employee engaged in protected activity and that the protected activity was a contributing factor in the adverse action. The burden may be satisfied, for example, if the complainant shows that the adverse action took place shortly after the protected activity, giving rise to the inference that it was a contributing factor in the adverse action. If the required showing has not been made, the complainant (or the complainant's legal counsel, if complainant
is represented by counsel) will be so notified and the investigation will not commence.
(4) Notwithstanding a finding that a complainant has made a prima facie showing, as required by this section, an investigation of the complaint will not be conducted or will be discontinued if the respondent demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the same adverse action in the absence of the complainant's protected activity.
(5) If the respondent fails to make a timely response or fails to satisfy the burden set forth in the prior paragraph, the Assistant Secretary will proceed with the investigation. The investigation will proceed whenever it is necessary or appropriate to confirm or verify the information provided by the respondent.
(f) Prior to the issuance of findings and a preliminary order as provided for in § 1978.105, if the Assistant Secretary has reasonable cause, on the basis of information gathered under the procedures of this part, to believe that the respondent has violated the Act and that preliminary reinstatement is warranted, the Assistant Secretary will again contact the respondent (or the respondent's legal counsel, if respondent is represented by counsel) to give notice of the substance of the relevant evidence supporting the complainant's allegations as developed during the course of the investigation. This evidence includes any witness statements, which will be redacted to protect the identity of confidential informants where statements were given in confidence; if the statements cannot be redacted without revealing the identity of confidential informants, summaries of their contents will be provided. The complainant will also receive a copy of the materials that must be provided to the respondent under this paragraph. Before providing such materials to the complainant, the agency will redact them, if necessary, in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and other applicable confidentiality laws. The respondent will be given the opportunity to submit a written response, to meet with the investigators, to present statements from witnesses in support of its position, and to present legal and factual arguments. The respondent must present this evidence within 10 business days of the Assistant Secretary's notification pursuant to this paragraph, or as soon thereafter as the Assistant Secretary and the respondent can agree, if the interests of justice so require.
§ 1978.105
Issuance of findings and preliminary orders.
(a) After considering all the relevant information collected during the investigation, the Assistant Secretary will issue, within 60 days of the filing of the complaint, written findings as to whether there is reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has retaliated against the complainant in violation of STAA.
(1) If the Assistant Secretary concludes that there is reasonable cause to believe that a violation has occurred, the Assistant Secretary will accompany the findings with a preliminary order providing relief. Such order will require, where appropriate: affirmative action to abate the violation; reinstatement of the complainant to his or her former position, with the same compensation, terms, conditions and privileges of the complainant's employment; and payment of compensatory damages (backpay with interest and compensation for any special damages sustained as a result of the retaliation, including any litigation costs, expert witness fees, and reasonable attorney fees which the complainant has incurred). Interest on backpay will be calculated using the interest rate applicable to underpayment of taxes under 26 U.S.C. 6621 and will be compounded daily. The preliminary order may also require the respondent to pay punitive damages up to $250,000.
(2) If the Assistant Secretary concludes that a violation has not occurred, the Assistant Secretary will notify the parties of that finding.
(b) The findings and, where appropriate, the preliminary order will be sent by means that allow OSHA to confirm delivery to all parties of record (and each party's legal counsel if the party is represented by counsel). The findings and, where appropriate, the
preliminary order will inform the parties of the right to object to the findings and/or the order and to request a hearing. The findings and, where appropriate, the preliminary order also will give the address of the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, or appropriate information regarding filing objections electronically with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. At the same time, the Assistant Secretary will file with the Chief Administrative Law Judge a copy of the original complaint and a copy of the findings and/or order.
(c) The findings and the preliminary order will be effective 30 days after receipt by the respondent (or the respondent's legal counsel if the respondent is represented by counsel), or on the compliance date set forth in the preliminary order, whichever is later, unless an objection and request for a hearing have been timely filed as provided at § 1978.106. However, the portion of any preliminary order requiring reinstatement will be effective immediately upon the respondent's receipt of the findings and the preliminary order, regardless of any objections to the findings and/or the order.
[77 FR 44134, July 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 1788, Jan. 11, 2021]

# Subpart B—Litigation
§ 1978.106
Objections to the findings and the preliminary order and request for a hearing.
(a) Any party who desires review, including judicial review, must file any objections and a request for a hearing on the record within 30 days of receipt of the findings and preliminary order pursuant to § 1978.105(c). The objections and request for a hearing must be in writing and state whether the objections are to the findings and/or the preliminary order. The date of the postmark, facsimile transmittal, or electronic transmittal is considered the date of filing; if the objection is filed in person, by hand-delivery or other means, the objection is filed upon receipt. Objections must be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, and copies of the objections must be served at the same time on the other parties of record and the OSHA official who issued the findings.
(b) If a timely objection is filed, all provisions of the preliminary order will be stayed, except for the portion requiring preliminary reinstatement, which will not be automatically stayed. The portion of the preliminary order requiring reinstatement will be effective immediately upon the respondent's receipt of the findings and preliminary order, regardless of any objections to the order. The respondent may file a motion with the Office of Administrative Law Judges for a stay of the Assistant Secretary's preliminary order of reinstatement, which shall be granted only based on exceptional circumstances. If no timely objection is filed with respect to either the findings or the preliminary order, the findings and/or the preliminary order will become the final decision of the Secretary, not subject to judicial review.
[77 FR 44134, July 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 1788, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 1978.107
Hearings.
(a) Except as provided in this part, proceedings will be conducted in accordance with the rules of practice and procedure for administrative hearings before the Office of Administrative Law Judges, codified at subpart A of part 18 of this title.
(b) Upon receipt of an objection and request for hearing, the Chief Administrative Law Judge will promptly assign the case to an ALJ who will notify the parties of the day, time, and place of hearing. The hearing is to commence expeditiously, except upon a showing of good cause or unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. Hearings will be conducted de novo on the record. Administrative law judges have broad discretion to limit discovery in order to expedite the hearing.
(c) If both the complainant and the respondent object to the findings and/or order, the objections will be consolidated and a single hearing will be conducted.
(d) Formal rules of evidence will not apply, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most probative evidence will be applied. The
ALJ may exclude evidence that is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious.
[77 FR 44134, July 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 1788, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 1978.108
Role of Federal agencies.
(a)(1) The complainant and the respondent will be parties in every proceeding. In any case in which the respondent objects to the findings or the preliminary order the Assistant Secretary ordinarily will be the prosecuting party. In any other cases, at the Assistant Secretary's discretion, the Assistant Secretary may participate as a party or participate as amicus curiae at any stage of the proceeding. This right to participate includes, but is not limited to, the right to petition for review of a decision of an ALJ, including a decision approving or rejecting a settlement agreement between the complainant and the respondent.
(2) If the Assistant Secretary assumes the role of prosecuting party in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, he or she may, upon written notice to the ALJ or the Administrative Review Board, as the case may be, and the other parties, withdraw as the prosecuting party in the exercise of prosecutorial discretion. If the Assistant Secretary withdraws, the complainant will become the prosecuting party and the ALJ or the Administrative Review Board, as the case may be, will issue appropriate orders to regulate the course of future proceedings.
(3) Copies of documents in all cases shall be sent to the parties or, if they are represented by counsel, to the latter. In cases in which the Assistant Secretary is a party, copies of documents shall be sent to the Regional Solicitor's Office representing the Assistant Secretary.
(b) The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, if interested in a proceeding, may participate as amicus curiae at any time in the proceeding, at its discretion. At the request of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, copies of all documents in a case must be sent to that agency, whether or not that agency is participating in the proceeding.
§ 1978.109
Decisions and orders of the administrative law judge.
(a) The decision of the ALJ will contain appropriate findings, conclusions, and an order pertaining to the remedies provided in paragraph (d) of this section, as appropriate. A determination that a violation has occurred may be made only if the complainant has demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that protected activity was a contributing factor in the adverse action alleged in the complaint.
(b) If the complainant or the Assistant Secretary has satisfied the burden set forth in the prior paragraph, relief may not be ordered if the respondent demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the same adverse action in the absence of any protected activity.
(c) Neither the Assistant Secretary's determination to dismiss a complaint without completing an investigation pursuant to § 1978.104(e) nor the Assistant Secretary's determination to proceed with an investigation is subject to review by the ALJ, and a complaint may not be remanded for the completion of an investigation or for additional findings on the basis that a determination to dismiss was made in error. Rather, if there otherwise is jurisdiction, the ALJ will hear the case on the merits or dispose of the matter without a hearing if the facts and circumstances warrant.
(d)(1) If the ALJ concludes that the respondent has violated the law, the ALJ will issue an order that will require, where appropriate: affirmative action to abate the violation; reinstatement of the complainant to his or her former position with the same compensation, terms, conditions, and privileges of the complainant's employment; payment of compensatory damages (backpay with interest and compensation for any special damages sustained as a result of the retaliation, including any litigation costs, expert witness fees, and reasonable attorney fees which the complainant may have incurred); and payment of punitive damages up to $250,000. Interest on backpay will be calculated using the interest rate applicable to underpayment of taxes under 26 U.S.C. 6621 and will be compounded daily.
(2) If the ALJ determines that the respondent has not violated the law, an order will be issued denying the complaint.
(e) The decision will be served upon all parties to the proceeding, the Assistant Secretary, and the Associate Solicitor, Division of Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor. Any ALJ's decision requiring reinstatement or lifting an order of reinstatement by the Assistant Secretary will be effective immediately upon receipt of the decision by the respondent. For ALJ decisions issued on or after the effective date of the interim final rule, August 31, 2010, all other portions of the ALJ's order will be effective 14 days after the date of the decision unless a timely petition for review has been filed with the Administrative Review Board (ARB), U.S. Department of Labor. Any ALJ decision issued on or after the effective date of the interim final rule, August 31, 2010, will become the final order of the Secretary unless a petition for review is timely filed with the ARB and the ARB accepts the decision for review.
§ 1978.110
Decisions and orders of the Administrative Review Board.
(a) The Assistant Secretary or any other party desiring to seek review, including judicial review, of a decision of the ALJ must file a written petition for review with the ARB. The parties should identify in their petitions for review the legal conclusions or orders to which they object, or the objections may be deemed waived. A petition must be filed within 14 days of the date of the decision of the ALJ. The date of the postmark, facsimile transmittal, or electronic communication transmittal will be considered to be the date of filing; if the petition is filed in person, by hand delivery or other means, the petition is considered filed upon receipt. The petition must be served on all parties and on the Chief Administrative Law Judge at the time it is filed with the ARB. Copies of the petition for review and all briefs must be served on the Assistant Secretary and, in cases in which the Assistant Secretary is a party, on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor.
(b) If a timely petition for review is filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the decision of the ALJ will become the final order of the Secretary unless the ARB, within 30 days of the filing of the petition, issues an order notifying the parties that the case has been accepted for review. If a case is accepted for review, the decision of the ALJ will be inoperative unless and until the ARB issues an order adopting the decision, except that any order of reinstatement will be effective while review is conducted by the ARB unless the ARB grants a motion by the respondent to stay that order based on exceptional circumstances. The ARB will specify the terms under which any briefs are to be filed. The ARB will review the factual determinations of the ALJ under the substantial evidence standard. If no timely petition for review is filed, or the ARB denies review, the decision of the ALJ will become the final order of the Secretary. If no timely petition for review is filed, the resulting final order is not subject to judicial review.
(c) The decision of the ARB will be issued within 120 days of the conclusion of the hearing, which will be deemed to be 14 days after the date of the decision of the ALJ, unless a motion for reconsideration has been filed with the ALJ in the interim. In such case, the conclusion of the hearing is the date the motion for reconsideration is ruled upon or 14 days after a new decision is issued. The ARB's decision will be served upon all parties and the Chief Administrative Law Judge. The decision also will be served on the Assistant Secretary, and on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Occupational Safety and Health, U.S, Department of Labor, even if the Assistant Secretary is not a party.
(d) If the ARB concludes that the respondent has violated the law, the ARB will issue an order providing relief to the complainant. The order, which will be subject to discretionary review by the Secretary as provided in Secretary's Order 01-2020 (or any successor to that order), will require, where appropriate, affirmative action to abate the violation; reinstatement of the
complainant to his or her former position with the same compensation, terms, conditions, and privileges of the complainant's employment; payment of compensatory damages (back pay with interest and compensation for any special damages sustained as a result of the retaliation, including any litigation costs, expert witness fees, and reasonable attorney fees the complainant may have incurred); and payment of punitive damages up to $250,000. Interest on back pay will be calculated using the interest rate applicable to underpayment of taxes under 26 U.S.C. 6621 and will be compounded daily.
(e) If the ARB concludes that the respondent has not violated the law, the ARB will issue an order denying the complaint. Such order will be subject to discretionary review by the Secretary as provided in Secretary's Order 01-2020 (or any successor to that order).
(f) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to all cases in which the decision of the ALJ was issued on or after August 31, 2010.
[77 FR 44134, July 27, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 30620, May 20, 2020; 86 FR 1788, Jan. 11, 2021]

# Subpart C—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 1978.111
Withdrawal of STAA complaints, findings, objections, and petitions for review; settlement.
(a) At any time prior to the filing of objections to the Assistant Secretary's findings and/or preliminary order, a complainant may withdraw his or her complaint by notifying the Assistant Secretary, orally or in writing, of his or her withdrawal. The Assistant Secretary then will confirm in writing the complainant's desire to withdraw and determine whether to approve the withdrawal. The Assistant Secretary will notify the parties (and each party's legal counsel if the party is represented by counsel) of the approval of any withdrawal. If the complaint is withdrawn because of settlement, the settlement must be submitted for approval in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. A complainant may not withdraw his or her complaint after the filing of objections to the Assistant Secretary's findings and/or preliminary order.
(b) The Assistant Secretary may withdraw the findings and/or preliminary order at any time before the expiration of the 30-day objection period described in § 1978.106, provided that no objection has been filed yet, and substitute new findings and/or a new preliminary order. The date of the receipt of the substituted findings or order will begin a new 30-day objection period.
(c) At any time before the Assistant Secretary's findings and/or preliminary order become final, a party may withdraw objections to the Assistant Secretary's findings and/or preliminary order by filing a written withdrawal with the ALJ. If a case is on review with the ARB, a party may withdraw a petition for review of an ALJ's decision at any time before that decision becomes final by filing a written withdrawal with the ARB. The ALJ or the ARB, as the case may be, will determine whether to approve the withdrawal of the objections or the petition for review. If the ALJ approves a request to withdraw objections to the Assistant Secretary's findings and/or order, and there are no other pending objections, the Assistant Secretary's findings and/or order will become the final order of the Secretary. If the ARB approves a request to withdraw a petition for review of an ALJ decision, and there are no other pending petitions for review of that decision, the ALJ's decision will become the final order of the Secretary. If objections or a petition for review are withdrawn because of settlement, the settlement must be submitted for approval in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)(1)
Investigative settlements.
At any time after the filing of a STAA complaint and before the findings and/or order are objected to or become a final order by operation of law, the case may be settled if the Assistant Secretary, the complainant, and the respondent agree to a settlement. The Assistant Secretary's approval of a settlement reached by the respondent and the complainant demonstrates the Assistant Secretary's consent and achieves the consent of all three parties.
(2)
Adjudicatory settlements.
At any time after the filing of objections to
the Assistant Secretary's findings and/or order, the case may be settled if the participating parties agree to a settlement and the settlement is approved by the ALJ if the case is before the ALJ or by the ARB, if the ARB has accepted the case for review. A copy of the settlement will be filed with the ALJ or the ARB, as the case may be.
(e) Any settlement approved by the Assistant Secretary, the ALJ, or the ARB will constitute the final order of the Secretary and may be enforced in United States district court pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 31105(e).
§ 1978.112
Judicial review.
(a) Within 60 days after the issuance of a final order (including a decision issued by the Secretary upon his or her discretionary review) for which judicial review is available, any person adversely affected or aggrieved by the order may file a petition for review of the order in the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the violation allegedly occurred or the circuit in which the person resided on the date of the violation.
(b) A final order is not subject to judicial review in any criminal or other civil proceeding.
(c) If a timely petition for review is filed, the record of a case, including the record of proceedings before the ALJ, will be transmitted by the ARB or the ALJ, as the case may be, to the appropriate court pursuant to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure and the local rules of such court.
[77 FR 44134, July 27, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 30620, May 20, 2020]
§ 1978.113
Judicial enforcement.
Whenever any person has failed to comply with a preliminary order of reinstatement or a final order, including one approving a settlement agreement issued under STAA, the Secretary may file a civil action seeking enforcement of the order in the United States district court for the district in which the violation was found to have occurred.
§ 1978.114
District court jurisdiction of retaliation complaints under STAA.
(a) If there is no final order of the Secretary, 210 days have passed since the filing of the complaint, and there is no showing that there has been delay due to the bad faith of the complainant, the complainant may bring an action at law or equity for de novo review in the appropriate district court of the United States, which will have jurisdiction over such an action without regard to the amount in controversy. The action shall, at the request of either party to such action, be tried by the court with a jury.
(b) Within seven days after filing a complaint in federal court, a complainant must file with the Assistant Secretary, the ALJ, or the ARB, depending on where the proceeding is pending, a copy of the file-stamped complaint. A copy of the complaint also must be served on the OSHA official who issued the findings and/or preliminary order, the Assistant Secretary, and the Associate Solicitor, Division of Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor.
§ 1978.115
Special circumstances; waiver of rules.
In special circumstances not contemplated by the provisions of these rules, or for good cause shown, the ALJ or the ARB on review may, upon application, after three days notice to all parties, waive any rule or issue such orders as justice or the administration of STAA requires.
Pt. 1979

# PART 1979—PROCEDURES FOR THE HANDLING OF DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINTS UNDER SECTION 519 OF THE WENDELL H. FORD AVIATION INVESTMENT AND REFORM ACT FOR THE 21ST CENTURY

# Subpart A—Complaints, Investigations, Findings and Preliminary Orders
Sec.
1979.100
Purpose and scope.
1979.101
Definitions.
1979.102
Obligations and prohibited acts.
1979.103
Filing of discrimination complaint.
1979.104
Investigation.
1979.105
Issuance of findings and preliminary orders.

# Subpart B—Litigation
1979.106
Objections to the findings and the preliminary order and request for a hearing.
1979.107
Hearings.
1979.108
Role of Federal agencies.
1979.109
Decision and orders of the administrative law judge.
1979.110
Decision and orders of the Administrative Review Board.

# Subpart C—Miscellaneous Provisions
1979.111
Withdrawal of complaints, objections, and findings; settlement.
1979.112
Judicial review.
1979.113
Judicial enforcement.
1979.114
Special circumstances; waiver of rules.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 42121; Secretary's Order 1-2012 (Jan. 18, 2012), 77 FR 3912 (Jan. 25, 2012); Secretary's Order 01-2020, 85 FR 13186 (March 6, 2020).

# Source:
68 FR 14107, Mar. 21, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Complaints, Investigations, Findings and Preliminary Orders
§ 1979.100
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part implements procedures under section 519 of the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century, 49 U.S.C. 42121 (“AIR21”), which provides for employee protection from discrimination by air carriers or contractors or subcontractors of air carriers because the employee has engaged in protected activity pertaining to a violation or alleged violation of any order, regulation, or standard of the Federal Aviation Administration or any other provision of Federal law relating to air carrier safety.
(b) This part establishes procedures pursuant to AIR21 for the expeditious handling of discrimination complaints made by employees, or by persons acting on their behalf. These rules, together with those rules codified at 29 CFR part 18, set forth the procedures for submission of complaints under AIR21, investigations, issuance of findings and preliminary orders, objections to findings and orders, litigation before administrative law judges, post-hearing administrative review, and withdrawals and settlements.
§ 1979.101
Definitions.
Act
or
AIR21
means section 519 of the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century, Public Law 106-181, April 5, 2000, 49 U.S.C. 42121.
Air carrier
means a citizen of the United States undertaking by any means, directly or indirectly, to provide air transportation.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or the person or persons to whom he or she delegates authority under the Act.
Complainant
means the employee who filed a complaint under the Act or on whose behalf a complaint was filed.
Contractor
means a company that performs safety-sensitive functions by contract for an air carrier.
Employee
means an individual presently or formerly working for an air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier, an individual applying to work for an air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier, or an individual whose employment could be affected by an air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier.
Named person
means the person alleged to have violated the Act.
OSHA
means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor.
Person
means one or more individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, business trusts, legal representatives, or any group of persons.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor or persons to whom authority under the Act has been delegated.
§ 1979.102
Obligations and prohibited acts.
(a) No air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier may discharge any employee or otherwise discriminate against any employee with respect to the employee's compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because the employee, or any person acting pursuant to the employee's request, engaged in any of the activities specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(b) It is a violation of the Act for any air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier to intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge or in any other manner discriminate against any employee because the employee has:
(1) Provided, caused to be provided, or is about to provide (with any knowledge of the employer) or cause to be provided to the air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier or the Federal Government, information relating to any violation or alleged violation of any order, regulation, or standard of the Federal Aviation Administration or any other provision of Federal law relating to air carrier safety under subtitle VII of title 49 of the United States Code or under any other law of the United States;
(2) Filed, caused to be filed, or is about to file (with any knowledge of the employer) or cause to be filed a proceeding relating to any violation or alleged violation of any order, regulation, or standard of the Federal Aviation Administration or any other provision of Federal law relating to air carrier safety under subtitle VII of title 49 of the United States Code, or under any other law of the United States;
(3) Testified or is about to testify in such a proceeding; or
(4) Assisted or participated or is about to assist or participate in such a proceeding.
(c) This part shall have no application to any employee of an air carrier, contractor, or subcontractor who, acting without direction from an air carrier, contractor, or subcontractor (or such person's agent) deliberately causes a violation of any requirement relating to air carrier safety under Subtitle VII Aviation Programs of Title 49 of the United States Code or any other law of the United States.
§ 1979.103
Filing of discrimination complaint.
(a)
Who may file.
An employee who believes that he or she has been discriminated against by an air carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier in violation of the Act may file, or have filed by any person on the employee's behalf, a complaint alleging such discrimination.
(b)
Nature of filing.
No particular form of complaint is required, except that a complaint must be in writing and should include a full statement of the acts and omissions, with pertinent dates, which are believed to constitute the violations.
(c)
Place of filing.
The complaint should be filed with the OSHA Area Director responsible for enforcement activities in the geographical area where the employee resides or was employed, but may be filed with any OSHA officer or employee. Addresses and telephone numbers for these officials are set forth in local directories and at the following Internet address:
http://www.osha.gov.
(d)
Time for filing.
Within 90 days after an alleged violation of the Act occurs (
i.e.,
when the discriminatory decision has been both made and communicated to the complainant), an employee who believes that he or she has been discriminated against in violation of the Act may file, or have filed by any person on the employee's behalf, a complaint alleging such discrimination. The date of the postmark, facsimile transmittal, or e-mail communication will be considered to be the date of filing; if the complaint is filed in person, by hand-delivery, or other means, the complaint is filed upon receipt.
(e)
Relationship to section 11(c) complaints.
A complaint filed under AIR21 that alleges facts which would constitute a violation of section 11(c) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 U.S.C. 660(c), shall be deemed to be a complaint filed under both AIR21 and section 11(c). Similarly, a complaint filed under section 11(c) that alleges facts that would constitute a violation of AIR21 shall be deemed to be a complaint filed under both AIR21 and section 11(c). Normal procedures and timeliness requirements for investigations under the respective laws and regulations will be followed.
§ 1979.104
Investigation.
(a) Upon receipt of a complaint in the investigating office, the Assistant Secretary will notify the named person of
the filing of the complaint, of the allegations contained in the complaint, and of the substance of the evidence supporting the complaint (redacted to protect the identity of any confidential informants). The Assistant Secretary will also notify the named person of his or her rights under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and paragraph (e) of § 1979.110. A copy of the notice to the named person will also be provided to the Federal Aviation Administration.
(b) A complaint of alleged violation will be dismissed unless the complainant has made a prima facie showing that protected behavior or conduct was a contributing factor in the unfavorable personnel action alleged in the complaint.
(1) The complaint, supplemented as appropriate by interviews of the complainant, must allege the existence of facts and evidence to make a prima facie showing as follows:
(i) The employee engaged in a protected activity or conduct;
(ii) The named person knew or suspected, actually or constructively, that the employee engaged in the protected activity;
(iii) The employee suffered an unfavorable personnel action; and
(iv) The circumstances were sufficient to raise the inference that the protected activity was a contributing factor in the unfavorable action.
(2) For purposes of determining whether to investigate, the complainant will be considered to have met the required burden if the complaint on its face, supplemented as appropriate through interviews of the complainant, alleges the existence of facts and either direct or circumstantial evidence to meet the required showing,
i.e.,
to give rise to an inference that the named person knew or suspected that the employee engaged in protected activity and that the protected activity was a contributing factor in the unfavorable personnel action. Normally the burden is satisfied, for example, if the complaint shows that the adverse personnel action took place shortly after the protected activity, giving rise to the inference that it was a factor in the adverse action. If the required showing has not been made, the complainant will be so advised and the investigation will not commence.
(c) Notwithstanding a finding that a complainant has made a prima facie showing, as required by this section, an investigation of the complaint will not be conducted if the named person, pursuant to the procedures provided in this paragraph, demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the same unfavorable personnel action in the absence of the complainant's protected behavior or conduct. Within 20 days of receipt of the notice of the filing of the complaint, the named person may submit to the Assistant Secretary a written statement and any affidavits or documents substantiating his or her position. Within the same 20 days the named person may request a meeting with the Assistant Secretary to present his or her position.
(d) If the named person fails to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the same unfavorable personnel action in the absence of the behavior protected by the Act, the Assistant Secretary will conduct an investigation. Investigations will be conducted in a manner that protects the confidentiality of any person who provides information on a confidential basis, other than the complainant, in accordance with 29 CFR part 70.
(e) Prior to the issuance of findings and a preliminary order as provided for in § 1979.105, if the Assistant Secretary has reasonable cause, on the basis of information gathered under the procedures of this part, to believe that the named person has violated the Act and that preliminary reinstatement is warranted, the Assistant Secretary will again contact the named person to give notice of the substance of the relevant evidence supporting the complainant's allegations as developed during the course of the investigation. This evidence includes any witness statements, which will be redacted to protect the identity of confidential informants where statements were given in confidence; if the statements cannot be redacted without revealing the identity of confidential informants, summaries of their contents will be provided. The
named person shall be given the opportunity to submit a written response, to meet with the investigators to present statements from witnesses in support of his or her position, and to present legal and factual arguments. The named person shall present this evidence within ten business days of the Assistant Secretary's notification pursuant to this paragraph, or as soon afterwards as the Assistant Secretary and the named person can agree, if the interests of justice so require.
§ 1979.105
Issuance of findings and preliminary orders.
(a) After considering all the relevant information collected during the investigation, the Assistant Secretary will issue, within 60 days of filing of the complaint, written findings as to whether or not there is reasonable cause to believe that the named person has discriminated against the complainant in violation of the Act.
(1) If the Assistant Secretary concludes that there is reasonable cause to believe that a violation has occurred, he or she will accompany the findings with a preliminary order providing relief to the complainant. The preliminary order will include, where appropriate, a requirement that the named person abate the violation; reinstatement of the complainant to his or her former position, together with the compensation (including back pay), terms, conditions and privileges of the complainant's employment; and payment of compensatory damages. Where the named person establishes that the complainant is a security risk (whether or not the information is obtained after the complainant's discharge), a preliminary order of reinstatement would not be appropriate. At the complainant's request the order shall also assess against the named person the complainant's costs and expenses (including attorney's and expert witness fees) reasonably incurred in connection with the filing of the complaint.
(2) If the Assistant Secretary concludes that a violation has not occurred, the Assistant Secretary will notify the parties of that finding.
(b) The findings and the preliminary order will be sent by means that allow OSHA to confirm delivery to all parties of record. The letter accompanying the findings and order will inform the parties of their right to file objections and to request a hearing, and of the right of the named person to request attorney's fees from the administrative law judge, regardless of whether the named person has filed objections, if the named person alleges that the complaint was frivolous or brought in bad faith. The letter also will give the address of the Chief Administrative Law Judge or appropriate information regarding filing objections electronically with the Office of Administrative Law Judges. At the same time, the Assistant Secretary will file with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, a copy of the original complaint and a copy of the findings and order.
(c) The findings and the preliminary order shall be effective 30 days after receipt by the named person pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, unless an objection and a request for a hearing has been filed as provided at § 1979.106. However, the portion of any preliminary order requiring reinstatement shall be effective immediately upon receipt of the findings and preliminary order.
[68 FR 14107, Mar. 21, 2003, as amended at 86 FR 1788, Jan. 11, 2021]

# Subpart B—Litigation
§ 1979.106
Objections to the findings and the preliminary order and request for a hearing.
(a) Any party who desires review, including judicial review, of the findings and preliminary order, or a named person alleging that the complaint was frivolous or brought in bad faith who seeks an award of attorney's fees, must file any objections and/or a request for a hearing on the record within 30 days of receipt of the findings and preliminary order pursuant to § 1979.105(b). The objection or request for attorney's fees and request for a hearing must be in writing and state whether the objection is to the findings, the preliminary order, and/or whether there should be an award of attorney's fees. The date of the postmark, facsimile transmittal, or
electronic transmittal will be considered to be the date of filing; if the objection is filed in person, by hand-delivery or other means, the objection is filed upon receipt. Objections must be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, and copies of the objections must be served at the same time on the other parties of record, the OSHA official who issued the findings and order, and the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, U.S. Department of Labor.
(b)(1) If a timely objection is filed, all provisions of the preliminary order shall be stayed, except for the portion requiring preliminary reinstatement. The portion of the preliminary order requiring reinstatement shall be effective immediately upon the named person's receipt of the findings and preliminary order, regardless of any objections to the order.
(2) If no timely objection is filed with respect to either the findings or the preliminary order, the findings or preliminary order, as the case may be, shall become the final decision of the Secretary, not subject to judicial review.
[68 FR 14107, Mar. 21, 2003, as amended at 86 FR 1788, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 1979.107
Hearings.
(a) Except as provided in this part, proceedings will be conducted in accordance with the rules of practice and procedure for administrative hearings before the Office of Administrative Law Judges, codified at subpart A, of 29 CFR part 18.
(b) Upon receipt of an objection and request for hearing, the Chief Administrative Law Judge will promptly assign the case to a judge who will notify the parties of the day, time, and place of hearing. The hearing is to commence expeditiously, except upon a showing of good cause or unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. Hearings will be conducted as hearings de novo, on the record. Administrative law judges shall have broad discretion to limit discovery in order to expedite the hearing.
(c) If both the complainant and the named person object to the findings and/or order, the objections will be consolidated and a single hearing will be conducted.
(d) Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most probative evidence shall be applied. The administrative law judge may exclude evidence which is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious.
[68 FR 14107, Mar. 21, 2003, as amended at 86 FR 1788, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 1979.108
Role of Federal agencies.
(a)(1) The complainant and the named person shall be parties in every proceeding. At the Assistant Secretary's discretion, the Assistant Secretary may participate as a party or may participate as amicus curiae at any time in the proceedings. This right to participate shall include, but is not limited to, the right to petition for review of a decision of an administrative law judge, including a decision based on a settlement agreement between complainant and the named person, to dismiss a complaint or to issue an order encompassing the terms of the settlement.
(2) Copies of pleadings in all cases, whether or not the Assistant Secretary is participating in the proceeding, must be sent to the Assistant Secretary, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and to the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210.
(b) The FAA may participate as amicus curiae at any time in the proceedings, at the FAA's discretion. At the request of the FAA, copies of all pleadings in a case must be sent to the FAA, whether or not the FAA is participating in the proceeding.
§ 1979.109
Decision and orders of the administrative law judge.
(a) The decision of the administrative law judge will contain appropriate findings, conclusions, and an order pertaining to the remedies provided in paragraph (b) of this section, as appropriate. A determination that a violation has occurred may only be made if the complainant has demonstrated that protected behavior or conduct was a contributing factor in the unfavorable personnel action alleged in the
complaint. Relief may not be ordered if the named person demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that it would have taken the same unfavorable personnel action in the absence of any protected behavior. Neither the Assistant Secretary's determination to dismiss a complaint without completing an investigation pursuant to § 1979.104(b) nor the Assistant Secretary's determination to proceed with an investigation is subject to review by the administrative law judge, and a complaint may not be remanded for the completion of an investigation or for additional findings on the basis that a determination to dismiss was made in error. Rather, if there otherwise is jurisdiction, the administrative law judge shall hear the case on the merits.
(b) If the administrative law judge concludes that the party charged has violated the law, the order shall direct the party charged to take appropriate affirmative action to abate the violation, including, where appropriate, reinstatement of the complainant to that person's former position, together with the compensation (including back pay), terms, conditions, and privileges of that employment, and compensatory damages. At the request of the complainant, the administrative law judge shall assess against the named person all costs and expenses (including attorney's and expert witness fees) reasonably incurred. If, upon the request of the named person, the administrative law judge determines that a complaint was frivolous or was brought in bad faith, the judge may award to the named person a reasonable attorney's fee, not exceeding $1,000.
(c) The decision will be served upon all parties to the proceeding. Any administrative law judge's decision requiring reinstatement or lifting an order of reinstatement by the Assistant Secretary shall be effective immediately upon receipt of the decision by the named person, and may not be stayed. All other portions of the judge's order shall be effective ten business days after the date of the decision unless a timely petition for review has been filed with the Administrative Review Board.
§ 1979.110
Decision and orders of the Administrative Review Board.
(a) Any party desiring to seek review, including judicial review, of a decision of the administrative law judge, or a named person alleging that the complaint was frivolous or brought in bad faith who seeks an award of attorney's fees, must file a written petition for review with the Administrative Review Board (“the Board”). The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall become the final order of the Secretary unless, pursuant to this section, a petition for review is timely filed with the Board. The petition for review must specifically identify the findings, conclusions, or orders to which exception is taken. Any exception not specifically urged ordinarily shall be deemed to have been waived by the parties. To be effective, a petition must be filed within ten business days of the date of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge. The date of the postmark, facsimile transmittal, or electronic transmittal will be considered to be the date of filing; if the petition is filed in person, by hand-delivery or other means, the petition is considered filed upon receipt. The petition must be served on all parties and on the Chief Administrative Law Judge at the time it is filed with the Board. Copies of the petition for review and all briefs must be served on the Assistant Secretary, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, U.S. Department of Labor.
(b) If a timely petition for review is filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become the final order of the Secretary unless the Board, within 30 days of the filing of the petition, issues an order notifying the parties that the case has been accepted for review. If a case is accepted for review, the decision of the administrative law judge shall be inoperative unless and until the Board issues an order adopting the decision, except that a preliminary order of reinstatement shall be effective while review is conducted by the Board. The Board will specify the terms under which any briefs are to be filed. The Board will review the factual determinations of the
administrative law judge under the substantial evidence standard.
(c) The decision of the Board shall be issued within 120 days of the conclusion of the hearing, which shall be deemed to be the conclusion of all proceedings before the Administrative Law Judge—
i.e.,
10 business days after the date of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge unless a motion for reconsideration has been filed with the Administrative Law Judge in the interim. The decision will be served upon all parties and the Chief Administrative Law Judge. The decision will also be served on the Assistant Secretary, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, U.S. Department of Labor, even if the Assistant Secretary is not a party.
(d) If the ARB concludes that the party charged has violated the law, the ARB shall order the party charged to take appropriate affirmative action to abate the violation, including, where appropriate, reinstatement of the complainant to that person's former position, together with the compensation (including back pay), terms, conditions, and privileges of that employment, and compensatory damages. At the request of the complainant, the Board shall assess against the named person all costs and expenses (including attorney and expert witness fees) reasonably incurred. The ARB's order is subject to discretionary review by the Secretary as provided in Secretary's Order 01-2020 (or any successor to that order).
(e) If the ARB concludes that the party charged has not violated the law, the ARB shall issue an order denying the complaint. If, upon the request of the named person, the Board determines that a complaint was frivolous or was brought in bad faith, the Board may award to the named person reasonable attorney fees, not exceeding $1,000. An order under this section is subject to discretionary review by the Secretary as provided in Secretary's Order 01-2020 (or any successor to that order).
[68 FR 14107, Mar. 21, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 30620, May 20, 2020; 86 FR 1789, Jan. 11, 2021]

# Subpart C—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 1979.111
Withdrawal of complaints, objections, and findings; settlement.
