) As of a date within 60 days of the determination date, has issued in the last three years at least $1 billion aggregate principal amount of non-convertible securities, other than common equity, in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Act; and
(
2
) Will register only non-convertible securities, other than common equity, and full and unconditional guarantees permitted pursuant to paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition unless, at the determination date, the issuer also is eligible to register a primary offering of its securities relying on General Instruction I.B.1. of Form S-3 or Form F-3 or is eligible to register a primary offering described in General Instruction I.B.1. of Form S-3 relying on General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2.
(
3
) Provided that as to a parent issuer only, for purposes of calculating the aggregate principal amount of outstanding non-convertible securities under paragraph (1)(i)(B)(
1
) of this definition, the parent issuer may include the aggregate principal amount of non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of its majority-owned subsidiaries issued in registered primary offerings for cash, not exchange, that it has fully and unconditionally guaranteed, within the meaning of Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X (§ 210.3-10 of this chapter) in the last three years; or
(ii) Is a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent that is a well-known seasoned issuer pursuant to paragraph (1)(i) of this definition and, as to the subsidiaries' securities that are being or may be offered on that parent's registration statement:
(A) The parent has provided a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on the subsidiary's securities and the securities are non-convertible securities, other than common equity;
(B) The securities are guarantees of:
(
1
) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of its parent being registered; or
(
2
) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of another majority-owned subsidiary being registered where there is a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of such non-convertible securities by the parent; or
(C) The securities of the majority-owned subsidiary meet the conditions of General Instruction I.B.2 of Form S-3 or Form F-3.
(iii) Is not an ineligible issuer as defined in this section.
(iv) Is not an asset-backed issuer as defined in Item 1101 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1101(b) of this chapter).
(v) Is not an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), other than a registered closed-end investment company.
(2) For purposes of this definition, the determination date as to whether an issuer is a well-known seasoned issuer shall be the latest of:
(i) The time of filing of its most recent shelf registration statement; or
(ii) The time of its most recent amendment (by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d) of this chapter), or form of prospectus) to a shelf registration statement for purposes of complying with section 10(a)(3) of the Act (or if such amendment has not been made within the time period required by section 10(a)(3) of the Act, the date on which such amendment is required); or
(iii) In the event that the issuer has not filed a shelf registration statement or amended a shelf registration statement for purposes of complying with section 10(a)(3) of the Act for sixteen months, the time of filing of the issuer's most recent annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter), Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), or Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter) (or if such report has not
been filed by its due date, such due date).
Wholly owned subsidiary.
The term
wholly owned subsidiary
means a subsidiary substantially all of whose outstanding voting securities are owned by its parent and/or the parent's other wholly owned subsidiaries.
Written communication.
Except as otherwise specifically provided or the context otherwise requires, a
written communication
is any communication that is written, printed, a radio or television broadcast, or a graphic communication as defined in this section.

# Note:
Note to definition of “written communication.”
A communication that is a radio or television broadcast is a written communication regardless of the means of transmission of the broadcast.
[47 FR 11435, Mar. 16, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 230.405, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 230.406
Confidential treatment of information filed with the Commission.
Confidential treatment of supplemental information or other information not required to be filed under the Act should be requested under 17 CFR 200.83 and not under this rule. All confidential treatment requests shall be submitted in paper format only, whether or not the filer is an electronic filer.
See
Rule 101(c)(1)(i) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.101(c)(1)(i) of this chapter).
(a) Any person submitting any information in a document required to be filed under the Act may make written objection to its public disclosure by following the procedure in paragraph (b) of this section, which shall be the exclusive means of requesting confidential treatment of information included in any document (hereinafter referred to as the
material filed
) required to be filed under the Act,
except
that if the material filed is a registration statement on Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter) or on Form S-3, F-2, F-3 (§ 239.13, § 239.32 or § 239.33 of this chapter) relating to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan, or on Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) complying with General Instruction G of that Form or if the material filed is a registration statement that does not contain a delaying amendment pursuant to Rule 473 (§ 230.473 of this chapter), the person shall comply with the procedure in paragraph (b)
prior
to the filing of a registration statement.
(b) The person shall omit from the material filed the portion thereof which it desires to keep undisclosed (hereinafter called the
confidential portion
). In lieu thereof, the person shall indicate at the appropriate place in the material filed that the confidential portion has been so omitted and filed separately with the Commission. The person shall file with the material filed:
(1) One copy of the confidential portion, marked “Confidential Treatment,” of the material filed with the Commission. The copy shall contain an appropriate identification of the item or other requirement involved and, notwithstanding that the confidential portion does not constitute the whole of the answer or required disclosure, the entire answer or required disclosure, except that in the case where the confidential portion is part of a financial statement or schedule, only the particular financial statement or schedule need be included. The copy of the confidential portion shall be in the same form as the remainder of the material filed;
(2) An application making objection to the disclosure of the confidential portion. Such application shall be on a sheet or sheets separate from the confidential portion, and shall contain:
(i) An identification of the portion;
(ii) A statement of the grounds of the objection referring to and analyzing the applicable exemption(s) from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and a justification of the period of time for which confidential treatment is sought;
(iii) A detailed explanation of why, based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case, disclosure of the information is unnecessary for the protection of investors;
(iv) A written consent to the furnishing of the confidential portion to other government agencies, offices, or bodies and to the Congress; and
(v) The name, address and telephone number of the person to whom all notices and orders issued under this rule at any time should be directed.
(3) The copy of the confidential portion and the application filed in accordance with this paragraph (b) shall be enclosed in a separate envelope marked “Confidential Treatment” and addressed to The Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, DC 20549.
(c) Pending a determination as to the objection, the material for which confidential treatment has been applied will not be made available to the public.
(d) If it is determined by the Division, acting pursuant to delegated authority, that the application should be granted, an order to that effect will be entered, and a notation to that effect will be made at the appropriate place in the material filed. Such a determination will not preclude reconsideration whenever appropriate, such as upon receipt of any subsequent request under the Freedom of Information Act and, if appropriate, revocation of the confidential status of all or a portion of the information in question.
(e) If the Commission denies the application, or the Division, acting pursuant to delegated authority, denies the application and Commission review is not sought pursuant to § 201.431 of this chapter, confirmed telegraphic notice of the order of denial will be sent to the person named in the application pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section. In such case, if the material filed may be withdrawn pursuant to an applicable statute, rule, or regulation, the registrant shall have the right to withdraw the material filed in accordance with the terms of the applicable statute, rule, or regulation, but without the necessity of stating any grounds for the withdrawal or of obtaining the further assent of the Commission. In the event of such withdrawal, the confidential portion will be returned to the registrant. If the material filed may not be so withdrawn, the confidential portion will be made available for public inspection in the same manner as if confidential treatment had been revoked under paragraph (h) of this section.
(f) If a right of withdrawal pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section is not exercised, the confidential portion will be made available for public inspection as part of the material filed, and the registrant shall amend the material filed to include all information required to be set forth in regard to such confidential portion.
(g) In any case where a prior grant of confidential treatment has been revoked, the person named in the application pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section will be so informed by registered or certified mail. Pursuant to § 201.431 of this chapter, persons making objection to disclosure may petition the Commission for review of a determination by the Division revoking confidential treatment.
(h) Upon revocation of confidential treatment, the confidential portion shall be made available to the public at the time and according to the conditions specified in paragraphs (h) (1)-(2):
(1) Upon the lapse of five days after the dispatch of notice by registered or certified mail of a determination disallowing an objection, if prior to the lapse of such five days the person shall not have communicated to the Secretary of the Commission his intention to seek review by the Commission under § 201.431 of this chapter of the determination made by the Division; or
(2) If such a petition for review shall have been filed under § 201.431 of this chapter, upon final disposition adverse to the petitioner.
(i) If the confidential portion is made available to the public, one copy thereof shall be attached to each copy of the material filed with the Commission.
[49 FR 13336, Apr. 4, 1984, as amended at 50 FR 19000, May 6, 1985; 58 FR 14669, 14670, Mar. 18, 1993; 60 FR 32824, June 23, 1995; 60 FR 47692, Sept. 14, 1995; 61 FR 30402, June 14, 1996; 84 FR 50739, Sept. 26, 2019]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 21914, Mar. 28, 2024, § 230.406 was amended, effective May 28, 2024. At 89 FR 25804, Apr. 12, 2024, the effective date was delayed indefinitely.
§ 230.408
Additional information.
(a) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in a registration statement, there shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to
make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, unless otherwise required to be included in the registration statement, the failure to include in a registration statement information included in a free writing prospectus will not, solely by virtue of inclusion of the information in a free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 (§ 230.405)), be considered an omission of material information required to be included in the registration statement.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4072, June 24, 1947, as amended at 70 FR 44811, Aug. 3, 2005]
§ 230.409
Information unknown or not reasonably available.
Information required need be given only insofar as it is known or reasonably available to the registrant. If any required information is unknown and not reasonably available to the registrant, either because the obtaining thereof could involve unreasonable effort or expense, or because it rests peculiarly within the knowledge of another person not affiliated with the registrant, the information may be omitted, subject to the following conditions:
(a) The registrant shall give such information on the subject as it possesses or can acquire without unreasonable effort or expense, together with the sources thereof.
(b) The registrant shall include a statement either showing that unreasonable effort or expense would be involved or indicating the absence of any affiliation with the person within whose knowledge the information rests and stating the result of a request made to such person for the information.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4072, June 24, 1947, as amended at 14 FR 91, Jan. 7, 1949]
§ 230.410
Disclaimer of control.
If the existence of control is open to reasonable doubt in any instance, the registrant may disclaim the existence of control and any admission thereof; in such case, however, the registrant shall state the material facts pertinent to the possible existence of control.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4073, June 24, 1947]
§ 230.411
Incorporation by reference.
(a)
Prospectus.
Except as provided by this section, Item 1100(c) of Regulation AB (§ 229.1100(c) of this chapter) for registered offerings of asset-backed securities, or unless otherwise provided in the appropriate form, information must not be incorporated by reference into the prospectus. Where a summary or outline of the provisions of any document is required in the prospectus, the summary or outline may incorporate by reference particular items, sections or paragraphs of any exhibit and may be qualified in its entirety by such reference. In any financial statements, incorporating by reference, or cross-referencing to, information outside of the financial statements is not permitted unless otherwise specifically permitted or required by the Commission's rules or by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, whichever is applicable.
(b)
Information not required in a prospectus.
Information may be incorporated by reference in answer, or partial answer, to any item of a registration statement that calls for information not required to be included in a prospectus. Except as provided in the Commission's rules or by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, whichever is applicable, financial information required to be given in comparative form for two or more fiscal years or periods must not be incorporated by reference unless the information incorporated by reference includes the entire period for which the comparative data is given. In any financial statements, incorporating by reference, or cross-referencing to, information outside of the financial statements is not permitted unless otherwise specifically permitted or required by the Commission's rules or by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial
Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, whichever is applicable.
(c)
Exhibits.
Any document or part thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to any Act administered by the Commission may be incorporated by reference as an exhibit to any registration statement filed with the Commission by the same or any other person. If any modification has occurred in the text of any document incorporated by reference since the filing thereof, the registrant must file with the reference a statement containing the text of such modification and the date thereof.
(d)
Hyperlinks.
Include an active hyperlink to information incorporated into a registration statement or prospectus by reference if such information is publicly available on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) at the time the registration statement or prospectus is filed. For hyperlinking to exhibits, please refer to Item 601 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601 of this chapter) or the appropriate form.
(e)
General.
Include an express statement clearly describing the specific location of the information you are incorporating by reference. The statement must identify the document where the information was originally filed or submitted and the location of the information within that document. The statement must be made at the particular place where the information is required, if applicable. Information must not be incorporated by reference in any case where such incorporation would render the disclosure incomplete, unclear, or confusing. For example, unless expressly permitted or required, disclosure must not be incorporated by reference from a second document if that second document incorporates information pertinent to such disclosure by reference to a third document.
[84 FR 12721, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 230.412
Modified or superseded documents.
(a) Any statement contained in a document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference or deemed to be part of a registration statement or the prospectus that is part of the registration statement shall be deemed to be modified or superseded for purposes of the registration statement or the prospectus that is part of the registration statement to the extent that a statement contained in the prospectus that is part of the registration statement or in any other subsequently filed document which also is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference or deemed to be part of the registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement modifies or replaces such statement. Any statement contained in a document that is deemed to be incorporated by reference or deemed to be part of a registration statement or the prospectus that is part of the registration statement after the most recent effective date or after the date of the most recent prospectus that is part of the registration statement may modify or replace existing statements contained in the registration statement or the prospectus that is part of the registration statement.
(b) The modifying or superseding statement may, but need not, state that it has modified or superseded a prior statement or include any other information set forth in the document which is not so modified or superseded. The making of a modifying or superseding statement shall not be deemed an admission that the modified or superseded statement, when made, constituted an untrue statement of a material fact, an omission to state a material fact necessary to make a statement not misleading, or the employment of a manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent device, contrivance, scheme, transaction, act, practice, course of business or artifice to defraud, as those terms are used in the Act, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the rules and regulations thereunder.
(c) Any statement so modified shall not be deemed in its unmodified form to constitute part of the registration statement or prospectus for purpose of the Act. Any statement so superseded shall not be deemed to constitute a
part of the registration statement or the prospectus for purposes of the Act.
[47 FR 11438, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 70 FR 44811, Aug. 3, 2005; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 230.413
Registration of additional securities and additional classes of securities.
(a) Except as provided in section 24(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(f)) and in paragraph (b) of this section, where a registration statement is already in effect, the registration of additional securities shall only be effected through a separate registration statement relating to the additional securities.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the following additional securities or additional classes of securities may be added to an automatic shelf registration statement already in effect by filing a post-effective amendment to that automatic shelf registration statement:
(1) Securities of a class different than those registered on the effective automatic shelf registration statement identified as provided in Rule 430B(a) (§ 230.430B(a)); or
(2) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that are permitted to be included in an automatic shelf registration statement, provided that the subsidiary and the securities are identified as provided in Rule 430B and the subsidiary satisfies the signature requirements of an issuer in the post-effective amendment.
[70 FR 44811, Aug. 3, 2005]
§ 230.414
Registration by certain successor issuers.
If any issuer, except a foreign issuer exempted by Rule 3a12-3 (17 CFR 240.3a12-3), incorporated under the laws of any State or foreign government and having securities registered under the Act has been succeeded by an issuer incorporated under the laws of another State or foreign government for the purpose of changing the State or country of incorporation of the enterprises, or if any issuer has been succeeded by an issuer for the purpose of changing its form of organization, the registration statement of the predecessor issuer shall be deemed the registration statement of the successor issuer for the purpose of continuing the offering provided:
(a) Immediately prior to the succession the successor issuer had no assets or liabilities other than nominal assets or liabilities;
(b) The succession was effected by a merger or similar succession pursuant to statutory provisions or the terms of the organic instruments under which the successor issuer acquired all of the assets and assumed all of the liabilities and obligations of the predecessor issuer;
(c) The succession was approved by security holders of the predecessor issuer at a meeting for which proxies were solicited pursuant to section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or section 20(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 or information was furnished to security holders pursuant to section 14(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(d) The successor issuer has filed an amendment to the registration statement of the predecessor issuer expressly adopting such statements as its own registration statement for all purposes of the Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and setting forth any additional information necessary to reflect any material changes made in connection with or resulting from the succession, or necessary to keep the registration statement from being misleading in any material respect, and such amendment has become effective.
[47 FR 11438, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 230.415
Delayed or continuous offering and sale of securities.
(a) Securities may be registered for an offering to be made on a continuous or delayed basis in the future,
Provided,
That:
(1) The registration statement pertains only to:
(i) Securities which are to be offered or sold solely by or on behalf of a person or persons other than the registrant, a subsidiary of the registrant or a person of which the registrant is a subsidiary;
(ii) Securities which are to be offered and sold pursuant to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan or an employee benefit plan of the registrant;
(iii) Securities which are to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, warrants or rights;
(iv) Securities which are to be issued upon conversion of other outstanding securities;
(v) Securities which are pledged as collateral;
(vi) Securities which are registered on Form F-6 (§ 239.36 of this chapter);
(vii) Asset-backed securities (as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c)) registered (or qualified to be registered) on Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter) which are to be offered and sold on an immediate or delayed basis by or on behalf of the registrant;
Instruction to paragraph (a)(1)(vii):
The requirements of General Instruction I.B.1 of Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter) must be met for any offerings of an asset-backed security (as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c)) registered in reliance on this paragraph (a)(1)(vii).
(viii) Securities which are to be issued in connection with business combination transactions;
(ix) Securities, other than asset-backed securities (as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c)), the offering of which will be commenced promptly, will be made on a continuous basis and may continue for a period in excess of 30 days from the date of initial effectiveness;
(x) Securities registered (or qualified to be registered) on Form S-3 or Form F-3 (§ 239.13 or § 239.33 of this chapter), or on Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) pursuant to General Instruction A.2 of that form, which are to be offered and sold on an immediate, continuous or delayed basis by or on behalf of the registrant, a majority-owned subsidiary of the registrant or a person of which the registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary; or
(xi) Shares of common stock which are to be offered and sold on a delayed or continuous basis by or on behalf of a registered closed-end investment company or business development company that makes periodic repurchase offers pursuant to § 270.23c-3 of this chapter.
(xii) Asset-backed securities (as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c)) that are to be offered and sold on a continuous basis if the offering is commenced promptly and being conducted on the condition that the consideration paid for such securities will be promptly refunded to the purchaser unless:
(A) All of the securities being offered are sold at a specified price within a specified time; and
(B) The total amount due to the seller is received by him by a specified date.
(xiii) Exchange-traded vehicle securities which are to be offered and sold on a continuous basis by or on behalf of the registrant in accordance with § 230.456(d) (Rule 456(d)).
(2) Securities in paragraphs (a)(1)(viii) and (ix) of this section that are not registered on Form S-3 or Form F-3 (§ 239.13 or § 239.33 of this chapter), or on Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) pursuant to General Instruction A.2 of that form, may only be registered in an amount which, at the time the registration statement becomes effective, is reasonably expected to be offered and sold within two years from the initial effective date of the registration.
(3) The registrant furnishes the undertakings required by Item 512(a) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512(a) of this chapter), except that a registrant that is an investment company filing on Form N-2 must furnish the undertakings required by Item 34.4 of Form N-2 (§ 239.14 and § 274.11a-1 of this chapter).
(4) In the case of a registration statement pertaining to an at the market offering of equity securities by or on behalf of the registrant, the offering must come within paragraph (a)(1)(x) of this section. As used in this paragraph, the term “at the market offering” means an offering of equity securities into an existing trading market for outstanding shares of the same class at other than a fixed price.
(5) Securities registered on an automatic shelf registration statement and securities described in paragraphs (a)(1)(vii), (ix), and (x) of this section may be offered and sold only if not more than three years have elapsed since the initial effective date of the registration statement under which
they are being offered and sold,
provided, however,
that if a new registration statement has been filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section:
(i) If the new registration statement is an automatic shelf registration statement, it shall be immediately effective pursuant to Rule 462(e) (§ 230.462(e)); or
(ii) If the new registration statement is not an automatic shelf registration statement:
(A) Securities covered by the prior registration statement may continue to be offered and sold until the earlier of the effective date of the new registration statement or 180 days after the third anniversary of the initial effective date of the prior registration statement; and
(B) A continuous offering of securities covered by the prior registration statement that commenced within three years of the initial effective date may continue until the effective date of the new registration statement if such offering is permitted under the new registration statement.
(6) Prior to the end of the three-year period described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, an issuer may file a new registration statement covering securities described in such paragraph (a)(5) of this section, which may, if permitted, be an automatic shelf registration statement. The new registration statement and prospectus included therein must include all the information that would be required at that time in a prospectus relating to all offering(s) that it covers. Prior to the effective date of the new registration statement (including at the time of filing in the case of an automatic shelf registration statement), the issuer may include on such new registration statement any unsold securities covered by the earlier registration statement by identifying on the bottom of the facing page of the new registration statement or latest amendment thereto, unless expressly required in another part of the registration statement, the amount of such unsold securities being included and any filing fee paid in connection with such unsold securities, which will continue to be applied to such unsold securities. The offering of securities on the earlier registration statement will be deemed terminated as of the date of effectiveness of the new registration statement.
(b) This section shall not apply to any registration statement pertaining to a registered non-variable annuity, securities issued by a face-amount certificate company, or redeemable securities issued by an open-end management company or unit investment trust under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or any registration statement filed by any foreign government or political subdivision thereof.
[48 FR 52896, Nov. 23, 1983, as amended at 59 FR 43470, Aug. 24, 1994; 70 FR 44812, Aug. 3, 2005; 73 FR 968, Jan. 4, 2008; 79 FR 57329, Sept. 24, 2014; 85 FR 33354, June 1, 2020; 87 FR 70199, Dec. 9, 2021; 89 FR 60083, July 24, 2024]
§ 230.416
Securities to be issued as a result of stock splits, stock dividends and anti-dilution provisions and interests to be issued pursuant to certain employee benefit plans.
(a) If a registration statement purports to register securities to be offered pursuant to terms which provide for a change in the amount of securities being offered or issued to prevent dilution resulting from stock splits, stock dividends, or similar transactions, such registration statement shall, unless otherwise expressly provided, be deemed to cover the additional securities to be offered or issued in connection with any such provision.
(b) If prior to completion of the distribution of the securities covered by a registration statement, additional securities of the same class are issued or issuable as a result of a stock split or stock dividend, the registration statement shall, unless otherwise expressly provided therein, be deemed to cover such additional securities resulting from the split of, or the stock dividend on, the registered securities. If prior to completion of the distribution of the securities covered by a registration statement, all the securities of a class which includes the registered securities are combined by a reverse split into a lesser amount of securities of the same class, the amount of undistributed securities of such class deemed to be covered by the registration statement shall be proportionately reduced. If paragraph (a) of this
section is not applicable, the registration statement shall be amended prior to the offering of such additional or lesser amount of securities to reflect the change in the amount of securities registered.
(c) Where a registration statement on Form S-8 relates to securities to be offered pursuant to an employee benefit plan, including interests in such plan that constitute separate securities required to be registered under the Act, such registration statement shall be deemed to register an indeterminate amount of such plan interests.
[30 FR 13824, Oct. 30, 1965, as amended at 55 FR 23923, June 13, 1990]
§ 230.417
Date of financial statements.
Whenever financial statements of any person are required to be furnished as of a date within a specified period prior to the date of filing the registration statement and the last day of such period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, such registration statement may be filed on the first business day following the last day of the specified period.
[22 FR 2328, Apr. 9, 1957]
§ 230.418
Supplemental information.
(a) The Commission or its staff may, where it is deemed appropriate, request supplemental information concerning the registrant, the registration statement, the distribution of the securities, market activities and underwriters' activities. Such information includes, but is not limited to, the following items which the registrant should be prepared to furnish promptly upon request:
(1)(i) Any reports or memoranda which have been prepared for external use by the registrant or a principal underwriter, as defined in Rule 405 (§ 230.405), in connection with the proposed offering;
(ii) A statement as to the actual or proposed use and distribution of the reports or memoranda specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, identifying each class of persons who have received or will receive such reports or memoranda and the number of copies distributed to each such class;
(2) In the case of a registration statement relating to a business combination as defined in Rule 145(a) (17 CFR 230.145(a)), exchange offer, tender offer or similar transaction, any feasibility studies, management analyses, fairness opinions or similar reports prepared by or for any of the parties to the subject transaction in connection with such transaction;
(3) Except in the case of a registrant eligible to use Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter), or Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) under General Instruction A.2 of that form, any engineering, management or similar reports or memoranda relating to broad aspects of the business, operations or products of the registrant, which have been prepared within the past twelve months for or by the registrant and any affiliate of the registrant or any principal underwriter, as defined in § 230.405 (Rule 405), of the securities being registered except for:
(i) Reports solely comprised of recommendations to buy, sell or hold the securities of the registrant, unless such recommendations have changed within the past six months; and
(ii) Any information contained in documents already filed with the Commission.
(4) Where there is a registration of an at-the-market offering, as defined in § 242.100 of this chapter, of more than 10 percent of the securities outstanding, where the offering includes securities owned by officers, directors or affiliates of the registrant and where there is no underwriting agreement, information (i) concerning contractual arrangements between selling security holders of a limited group or of several groups of related shareholders to comply with the anti-manipulation rules until the offering by all members of the group is completed and to inform the exchange, brokers and selling security holders when the distribution by the members of the group is over; or (ii) concerning the registrant's efforts to notify members of a large group of unrelated sellers of the applicable Commission rules and regulations;
(5) Where the registrant recently has introduced a new product or has begun to do business in a new industry segment or has made public its intentions
to introduce a new product or to do business in a new industry segment, and this action requires the investment of a material amount of the assets of the registrant or otherwise is material, copies of any studies prepared for the registrant by outside persons or any internal studies, documents, reports or memoranda the contents of which were material to the decision to develop the product or to do business in the new segment including, but not limited to, documents relating to financial requirements and engineering, competitive, environmental and other considerations, but excluding technical documents;
(6) Where reserve estimates are referred to in a document, a copy of the full report of the engineer or other expert who estimated the reserves;
(7) With respect to the extent of the distribution of a preliminary prospectus, information concerning:
(i) The date of the preliminary prospectus distributed;
(ii) The dates or approximate dates of distribution;
(iii) The number of prospective underwriters and dealers to whom the preliminary prospectus was furnished;
(iv) The number of prospectuses so distributed;
(v) The number of prospectuses distributed to others, identifying them in general terms; and
(vi) The steps taken by such underwriters and dealers to comply with the provisions of Rule 15c2-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.15c2-8 of this chapter); and
(8) Any free writing prospectuses used in connection with the offering.
(b) Supplemental information described in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be required to be filed with or deemed part of and included in the registration statement, unless otherwise required. The information shall be returned to the registrant upon request, provided that:
(1) Such request is made at the time such information is furnished to the staff;
(2) The return of such information is consistent with the protection of investors;
(3) The return of such information is consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act [5 U.S.C. 552]; and
(4) The information was not filed in electronic format.
[47 FR 11439, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 14669, 14670, Mar. 18, 1993; 62 FR 543, Jan. 3, 1997; 70 FR 44812, Aug. 3, 2005; 85 FR 33354, June 1, 2020]
§ 230.419
Offerings by blank check companies.
(a)
Scope of the rule and definitions.
(1) The provisions of this section shall apply to every registration statement filed under the Act relating to an offering by a blank check company.
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “blank check company” shall mean a company that:
(i) Is a development stage company that has no specific business plan or purpose or has indicated that its business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company or companies, or other entity or person; and
(ii) Is issuing “penny stock,” as defined in Rule 3a51-1 (17 CFR 240.3a51-1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).
(3) For purposes of this section, the term “purchaser” shall mean any person acquiring securities directly or indirectly in the offering, for cash or otherwise, including promoters or others receiving securities as compensation in connection with the offering.
(b)
Deposit of securities and proceeds in escrow or trust account
—(1)
General.
(i) Except as otherwise provided in this section or prohibited by other applicable law, all securities issued in connection with an offering by a blank check company and the gross proceeds from the offering shall be deposited promptly into:
(A) An escrow account maintained by an “insured depository institution,” as that term is defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(C)(2)); or
(B) A separate bank account established by a broker or dealer registered under the Exchange Act maintaining net capital equal to or exceeding $25,000 (as calculated pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 15c3-1 (17 CFR 240.15c3-1), in which the broker or dealer acts as
trustee for persons having the beneficial interests in the account.
(ii) If funds and securities are deposited into an escrow account maintained by an insured depository institution, the deposit account records of the insured depository institution must provide that funds in the escrow account are held for the benefit of the purchasers named and identified in accordance with 12 CFR 330.1 of the regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the records of the escrow agent, maintained in good faith and in the regular course of business, must show the name and interest of each party to the account. If funds and securities are deposited in a separate bank account established by a broker or dealer acting as a trustee, the books and records of the broker-dealer must indicate the name, address, and interest of each person for whom the account is held.
(2)
Deposit and investment of proceeds.
(i) All offering proceeds, after deduction of cash paid for underwriting commissions, underwriting expenses and dealer allowances, and amounts permitted to be released to the registrant pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section, shall be deposited promptly into the escrow or trust account;
provided, however,
that no deduction may be made for underwriting commissions, underwriting expenses or dealer allowances payable to an affiliate of the registrant.
(ii) Deposited proceeds shall be in the form of checks, drafts, or money orders payable to the order of the escrow agent or trustee.
(iii) Deposited proceeds and interest or dividends thereon, if any, shall be held for the sole benefit of the purchasers of the securities.
(iv) Deposited proceeds shall be invested in one of the following:
(A) An obligation that constitutes a “deposit,” as that term is defined in section 3(
1
) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813 (
1
));
(B) Securities of any open-end investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) that holds itself out as a money market fund meeting the conditions of paragraph (d) of 17 CFR 270.2a-7 (Rule 2a-7) under the Investment Company Act; or
(C) Securities that are direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal or interest by, the United States.

# Note to § 230.419(
b

# )(2)(
iv

# ):
Issuers are cautioned that investments in government securities are inappropriate unless such securities can be readily sold or otherwise disposed of for cash at the time required without any dissipation of offering proceeds invested.
(v) Interest or dividends earned on the funds, if any, shall be held in the escrow or trust account until the funds are released in accordance with the provisions of this section. If funds held in the escrow or trust account are released to a purchaser of the securities, the purchasers shall receive interest or dividends earned, if any, on such funds up to the date of release. If funds held in the escrow or trust account are released to the registrant, interest or dividends earned on such funds up to the date of release may be released to the registrant.
(vi) The registrant may receive up to 10 percent of the proceeds remaining after payment of underwriting commissions, underwriting expenses and dealer allowances permitted by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, exclusive of interest or dividends, as those proceeds are deposited into the escrow or trust account.
(3)
Deposit of securities.
(i) All securities issued in connection with the offering, whether or not for cash consideration, and any other securities issued with respect to such securities, including securities issued with respect to stock splits, stock dividends, or similar rights, shall be deposited directly into the escrow or trust account promptly upon issuance. The identity of the purchaser of the securities shall be included on the stock certificates or other documents evidencing such securities. See also 17 CFR 240.15g-8 regarding restrictions on sales of, or offers to sell, securities deposited in the escrow or trust account.
(ii) Securities held in the escrow or trust account are to remain as issued and deposited and shall be held for the sole benefit of the purchasers, who shall have voting rights, if any, with respect to securities held in their
names, as provided by applicable state law. No transfer or other disposition of securities held in the escrow or trust account or any interest related to such securities shall be permitted other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), or Title 1 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
), or the rules thereunder.
(iii) Warrants, convertible securities or other derivative securities relating to securities held in the escrow or trust account may be exercised or converted in accordance with their terms;
provided, however,
that securities received upon exercise or conversion, together with any cash or other consideration paid in connection with the exercise or conversion, are promptly deposited into the escrow or trust account.
(4)
Escrow or trust agreement.
A copy of the executed escrow or trust agreement shall be filed as an exhibit to the registration statement and shall contain the provisions of paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), and (e)(3) of this section.
(5) Request for supplemental information. Upon request by the Commission or the staff, the registrant shall furnish as supplemental information the names and addresses of persons for whom securities are held in the escrow or trust account.

# Note to § 230.419(
b

# ):
With respect to a blank check offering subject to both Rule 419 and Exchange Act Rule 15c2-4 (17 CFR 240.15c2-4, the requirements of Rule 15c2-4 are applicable only until the conditions of the offering governed by that Rule are met (e.g., reaching the minimum in a “part-or-none” offering). When those conditions are satisfied, Rule 419 continues to govern the use of offering proceeds.
(c)
Disclosure of offering terms.
The initial registration statement shall disclose the specific terms of the offering, including, but not limited to:
(1) The terms and provisions of the escrow or trust agreement and the effect thereof upon the registrant's right to receive funds and the effect of the escrow or trust agreement upon the purchaser's funds and securities required to be deposited into the escrow or trust account, including, if applicable, any material risk of non-insurance of purchasers' funds resulting from deposits in excess of the insured amounts; and
(2) The obligation of the registrant to provide, and the right of the purchaser to receive, information regarding an acquisition, including the requirement that pursuant to this section, purchasers confirm in writing their investment in the registrant's securities as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Probable acquisition post-effective amendment requirement.
If, during any period in which offers or sales are being made, a significant acquisition becomes probable, the registrant shall file promptly a post-effective amendment disclosing the information specified by the applicable registration statement form and Industry Guides, including financial statements of the registrant and the company to be acquired as well as pro forma financial information required by the form and applicable rules and regulations. Where warrants, rights or other derivative securities issued in the initial offering are exercisable, there is a continuous offering of the underlying security.
(e)
Release of deposited and funds securities
—(1)
Post-effective amendment for acquisition agreement.
Upon execution of an agreement(s) for the acquisition(s) of a business(es) or assets that will constitute the business (or a line of business) of the registrant and for which the fair value of the business(es) or net assets to be acquired represents at least 80 percent of the maximum offering proceeds, including proceeds received or to be received upon the exercise or conversion of any securities offered, but excluding amounts payable to non-affiliates for underwriting commissions, underwriting expenses, and dealer allowances, the registrant shall file a post-effective amendment that:
(i) Discloses the information specified by the applicable registration statement form and Industry Guides, including financial statements of the registrant and the company acquired or to be acquired and pro forma financial information required by the form and applicable rules and regulations;
(ii) Discloses the results of the initial offering, including but not limited to:
(A) The gross offering proceeds received to date, specifying the amounts paid for underwriter commissions, underwriting expenses and dealer allowances, amounts disbursed to the registrant, and amounts remaining in the escrow or trust account; and
(B) The specific amount, use and application of funds disbursed to the registrant to date, including, but not limited to, the amounts paid to officers, directors, promoters, controlling shareholders or affiliates, either directly or indirectly, specifying the amounts and purposes of such payments; and
(iii) Discloses the terms of the offering as described pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(2)
Terms of the offering.
The terms of the offering must provide, and the registrant must satisfy, the following conditions.
(i) Within five business days after the effective date of the post-effective amendment(s), the registrant shall send by first class mail or other equally prompt means, to each purchaser of securities held in escrow or trust, a copy of the prospectus contained in the post-effective amendment and any amendment or supplement thereto;
(ii) Each purchaser shall have no fewer than 20 business days and no more than 45 business days from the effective date of the post-effective amendment to notify the registrant in writing that the purchaser elects to remain an investor. If the registrant has not received such written notification by the 45th business day following the effective date of the post-effective amendment, funds and interest or dividends, if any, held in the escrow or trust account shall be sent by first class mail or other equally prompt means to the purchaser within five business days;
(iii) The acquisition(s) meeting the criteria set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be consummated if a sufficient number of purchasers confirm their investments; and
(iv) If a consummated acquisition(s) meeting the requirements of this section has not occurred by a date 18 months after the effective date of the initial registration statement, funds held in the escrow or trust account shall be returned by first class mail or equally prompt means to the purchaser within five business days following that date.
(3)
Conditions for release of deposited securities and funds.
Funds held in the escrow or trust account may be released to the registrant and securities may be delivered to the purchaser or other registered holder identified on the deposited securities only at the same time as or after:
(i) The escrow agent or trustee has received a signed representation from the registrant, together with other evidence acceptable to the escrow agent or trustee, that the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section have been met; and
(ii) Consummation of an acquisition(s) meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(4)
Prospectus supplement.
If funds and securities are released from the escrow or trust account to the registrant pursuant to this paragraph, the prospectus shall be supplemented to indicate the amount of funds and securities released and the date of release.

# Notes to § 230.419(
e

# ):
1. With respect to a blank check offering subject to both Rule 419 and Exchange Act Rule 10b-9 (17 CFR 240.10b-9), the requirements of Rule 10b-9 are applicable only until the conditions of the offering governed by that Rule are met (e.g., reaching the minimum in a “part-or-none” offering). When those conditions are satisfied, Rule 419 continues to govern the use of offering proceeds.
2. If the business(es) or assets are acquired for cash, the fair value shall be presumed to be equal to the cash paid. If all or part of the consideration paid consists of securities or other non-cash consideration, the fair value shall be determined by an accepted standard, such as bona fide sales of the assets or similar assets made within a reasonable time, forecasts of expected cash flows, independent appraisals, etc. Such valuation must be reasonable at the time made.
(f)
Financial statements.
The registrant shall:
(1) Furnish to security holders audited financial statements for the first full fiscal year of operations following consummation of an acquisition pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, together with the information required by § 229.303(b) of this chapter (Item 303(b) of Regulation S-K), no later than 90 days after the end of such fiscal year; and
(2) File the financial statements and additional information with the Commission under cover of Form 8-K (17 CFR 249.308);
provided, however,
that such financial statements and related information need not be filed separately if the registrant is filing reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
[57 FR 18043, Apr. 28, 1992, as amended at 79 FR 47957, Aug. 14, 2014; 86 FR 2129, Jan. 11, 2021]

# form and content of prospectuses
§ 230.420
Legibility of prospectus.
(a) The body of all printed prospectuses and all notes to financial statements and other tabular data included therein shall be in roman type at least as large and as legible as 10-point modern type. However, (a) to the extent necessary for convenient presentation, financial statements and other tabular data, including tabular data in notes, and (b) prospectuses deemed to be omitting prospectuses under rule 482 (17 CFR 230.482) may be in roman type at least as large and as legible as 8-point modern type. All such type shall be leaded at least 2 points.
(b) Where a prospectus is distributed through an electronic medium, issuers may satisfy legibility requirements applicable to printed documents, such as paper size, type size and font, bold-face type, italics and red ink, by presenting all required information in a format readily communicated to investors, and where indicated, in a manner reasonably calculated to draw investor attention to specific information.
[53 FR 3878, Feb. 10, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 24655, May 15, 1996]
§ 230.421
Presentation of information in prospectuses.
(a) The information required in a prospectus need not follow the order of the items or other requirements in the form. Such information shall not, however, be set forth in such fashion as to obscure any of the required information or any information necessary to keep the required information from being incomplete or misleading. Where an item requires information to be given in a prospectus in tabular form it shall be given in substantially the tabular form specified in the item.
(b) You must present the information in a prospectus in a clear, concise and understandable manner. You must prepare the prospectus using the following standards:
(1) Present information in clear, concise sections, paragraphs, and sentences. Whenever possible, use short, explanatory sentences and bullet lists;
(2) Use descriptive headings and subheadings;
(3) Avoid frequent reliance on glossaries or defined terms as the primary means of explaining information in the prospectus. Define terms in a glossary or other section of the document only if the meaning is unclear from the context. Use a glossary only if it facilitates understanding of the disclosure; and
(4) Avoid legal and highly technical business terminology.

# Note to § 230.421(
b

# ):
In drafting the disclosure to comply with this section, you should avoid the following:
1. Legalistic or overly complex presentations that make the substance of the disclosure difficult to understand;
2. Vague “boilerplate” explanations that are imprecise and readily subject to different interpretations;
3. Complex information copied directly from legal documents without any clear and concise explanation of the provision(s); and
4. Disclosure repeated in different sections of the document that increases the size of the document but does not enhance the quality of the information.
(c) All information required to be included in a prospectus shall be clearly understandable without the necessity of referring to the particular form or to the general rules and regulations. Except as to financial statements and information required in a tabular form, the information set forth in a prospectus may be expressed in condensed or summarized form. In lieu of repeating information in the form of notes to financial statements, references may be made to other parts of the prospectus where such information is set forth.
(d)(1) To enhance the readability of the prospectus, you must use plain English principles in the organization, language, and design of the front and
back cover pages, the summary, and the risk factors section.
(2) You must draft the language in these sections so that at a minimum it substantially complies with each of the following plain English writing principles:
(i) Short sentences;
(ii) Definite, concrete, everyday words;
(iii) Active voice;
(iv) Tabular presentation or bullet lists for complex material, whenever possible;
(v) No legal jargon or highly technical business terms; and
(vi) No multiple negatives.
(3) In designing these sections or other sections of the prospectus, you may include pictures, logos, charts, graphs, or other design elements so long as the design is not misleading and the required information is clear. You are encouraged to use tables, schedules, charts and graphic illustrations of the results of operations, balance sheet, or other financial data that present the data in an understandable manner. Any presentation must be consistent with the financial statements and non-financial information in the prospectus. You must draw the graphs and charts to scale. Any information you provide must not be misleading.
Instruction to § 230.421:
You should read Securities Act Release No. 33-7497 (January 28, 1998) for information on plain English principles.
[47 FR 11439, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 63 FR 6384, Feb. 6, 1998; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 230.423
Date of prospectuses.
Except for a form of prospectus used after the effective date of the registration statement and before the determination of the offering price as permitted by Rule 430A(c) under the Securities Act (§ 230.430A(c) of this chapter) or before the opening of bids as permitted by Rule 445(c) under the Securities Act (§ 230.445(c) of this chapter), each prospectus used after the effective date of the registration statement shall be dated approximately as of such effective date; provided, however, that a revised or amended prospectus used thereafter need only bear the approximate date of its issuance. Each supplement to a prospectus shall be dated separately the approximate date of its issuance.
[47 FR 11440, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 21260, June 5, 1987; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 230.424
Filing of prospectuses, number of copies.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, five copies of every form of prospectus sent or given to any person prior to the effective date of the registration statement which varies from the form or forms of prospectus included in the registration statement as filed pursuant to § 230.402(a) of this chapter shall be filed as a part of the registration statement not later than the date such form of prospectus is first sent or given to any person:
Provided, however,
That only a form of prospectus that contains substantive changes from or additions to a prospectus previously filed with the Commission as part of a registration statement need be filed pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(b) Ten copies of each form of prospectus purporting to comply with section 10 of the Act, except for documents constituting a prospectus pursuant to Rule 428(a) (§ 230.428(a)) or free writing prospectuses pursuant to Rule 164 and Rule 433 (§ 230.164 and § 230.433), shall be filed with the Commission in the form in which it is used after the effectiveness of the registration statement and identified as required by paragraph (e) of this section;
provided, however,
that only a form of prospectus that contains substantive changes from or additions to a previously filed prospectus is required to be filed;
Provided, further,
that this paragraph (b) shall not apply in respect of a form of prospectus contained in a registration statement and relating solely to securities offered at competitive bidding, which prospectus is intended for use prior to the opening of bids. Ten copies of the form of prospectus shall be filed or transmitted for filing as follows:
(1) A form of prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from the prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Securities Act (§ 230.430A of this chapter)
shall be filed with the commission no later than the second business day following the earlier of the date of determination of the offering price or the date it is first used after effectiveness in connection with a public offering or sales, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(2) A form of prospectus that is used in connection with a primary offering of securities pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(x) (§ 230.415(a)(1)(x)) or a primary offering of securities registered for issuance on a delayed basis pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(vii) or (viii) (§ 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or (viii)) and that, in the case of Rule 415(a)(1)(viii) discloses the public offering price, description of securities or similar matters, and in the case of Rule 415(a)(1)(vii) and (x) discloses information previously omitted from the prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance on Rule 430B (§ 230.430B), or, in the case of asset-backed securities, Rule 430D (§ 230.430D) shall be filed with the Commission no later than the second business day following the earlier of the date of the determination of the offering price or the date it is first used after effectiveness in connection with a public offering or sales, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(3) A form of prospectus that reflects facts or events other than those covered in paragraphs (b) (1), (2) and (6) of this section that constitute a substantive change from or addition to the information set forth in the last form of prospectus filed with the Commission under this section or as part of a registration statement under the Securities Act shall be filed with the Commission no later than the fifth business day after the date it is first used after effectiveness in connection with a public offering or sales, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(4) A form of prospectus that discloses information, facts or events covered in both paragraphs (b) (1) and (3) shall be filed with the Commission no later than the second business day following the earlier of the date of the determination of the offering price or the date it is first used after effectiveness in connection with a public offering or sales, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(5) A form of prospectus that discloses information, facts or events covered in both paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) shall be filed with the Commission no later than the second business day following the earlier of the date of the determination of the offering price or the date it is first used after effectiveness in connection with a public offering or sales, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(6) A form of prospectus used in connection with an offering of securities under Canada's National Policy Statement No. 45 pursuant to rule 415 under the Securities Act (§ 230.415 of this chapter) that is not made in the United States shall be filed with the Commission no later than the date it is first used in Canada, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(7) A form of prospectus that identifies selling security holders and the amounts to be sold by them that was previously omitted from the registration statement and the prospectus in reliance upon Rule 430B (§ 230.430B) shall be filed with the Commission no later than the second business day following the earlier of the date of sale or the date of first use or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(8) A form of prospectus otherwise required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section that is not filed within the time frames specified in paragraph (b) of this section must be filed pursuant to this paragraph as soon as practicable after the discovery of such failure to file.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(8) of Rule 424.
A form of prospectus required to be filed pursuant to another paragraph of Rule 424(b) that is filed under Rule 424(b)(8) shall nonetheless be “required to be filed” under such other paragraph.
Instruction to paragraph (b):
Notwithstanding § 230.424 (b)(2) and (b)(5) above, a
form of prospectus or prospectus supplement relating to an offering of asset-backed securities under § 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or 230.415(a)(1)(xii) that is required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be filed with the Commission no later than the second business day following the date it is first used after effectiveness in connection with a public offering or sales, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(c) If a form of prospectus, other than one filed pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(4) of this Rule, consists of a prospectus supplement attached to a form of prospectus that (1) previously had been filed or (2) was not required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (b) because it did not contain substantive changes from a prospectus that previously was filed, only the prospectus supplement need be filed under paragraph (b) of this rule, provided that the first page of each prospectus supplement includes a cross reference to the date(s) of the related prospectus and any prospectus supplements thereto that together constitute the prospectus required to be delivered by Section 5(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)) with respect to the securities currently being offered or sold. The cross reference may be set forth in longhand, provided it is legible.

# Note:
Any prospectus supplement being filed separately that is smaller than a prospectus page should be attached to an 8
1/2
″ × 11″ sheet of paper.
(d) Every prospectus consisting of a radio or television broadcast shall be reduced to writing. Five copies of every such prospectus shall be filed with the Commission in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(e) Each copy of a form of prospectus filed under this rule shall contain in the upper right corner of the cover page the paragraph of this rule, including the subparagraph if applicable, under which the filing is made, and the file number of the registration statement to which the prospectus relates. The information required by this paragraph may be set forth in longhand, provided it is legible.
(f) This section shall not apply with respect to prospectuses of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (other than a registered closed-end investment company) or prospectuses that pertain to a registered non-variable annuity. References to “form of prospectus” in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be deemed also to refer to the form of Statement of Additional Information.
(g) A form of prospectus filed pursuant to this section must include the following information, as applicable, in a single exhibit submitted as required by § 232.408 of this chapter (Rule 408 of Regulation S-T), provided, however, that if the exhibit is submitted in connection with Form SF-1 (§ 239.44 of this chapter) or Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter), it is permitted but not required to be submitted as otherwise required by Rule 408.
(1) If the form of prospectus operates to reflect the payment of filing fees for an offering or offerings pursuant to § 230.456(b) or (c) (Rule 456(b) or (c)), the calculation of filing fee table immediately followed by the information required by the form instructions to the registration fee table reflecting the payment of such filing fees for the securities that are the subject of the payment; and
(2) The maximum aggregate amount or maximum aggregate offering price of the securities to which the final prospectus relates and indication that the final prospectus is a final prospectus for the related offering, as applicable, as required by General Instruction II.F of Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter), General Instruction II.G of Form F-3 (§ 239.33 of this chapter), General Instruction II.D of Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter), General Instruction H of Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter), and General Instruction C.2 of Form N-2 ((§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter).
(h)(1) Three copies of a form of prospectus relating to an offering of asset-backed securities pursuant to § 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or § 230.415(a)(1)(xii) disclosing information previously omitted from the prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance on § 230.430D shall be filed with the Commission at least three business days before the date of the first sale in the offering, or if used earlier, the earlier of:
(i) The applicable number of business days before the date of the first sale; or
(ii) The second business day after first use.
(2) Three copies of a prospectus supplement relating to an offering of asset-backed securities pursuant to § 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or § 230.415(a)(1)(xii) that reflects any material change from the information contained in a prospectus filed in accordance with § 230.424(h)(1) shall be filed with the Commission at least forty-eight hours before the date and time of the first sale in the offering. The prospectus supplement must clearly delineate what material information has changed and how the information has changed from the prospectus filed in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
Instruction to paragraph (h):
The filing requirements of this paragraph (h) do not apply if a filing is made solely to add fees pursuant to § 230.457 and for no other purpose.
(i)(1) A form of prospectus filed pursuant to this section that operates to reflect the payment of filing fees for an offering of an indeterminate amount of exchange-traded vehicle securities pursuant to §§ 230.456(d) and 230.457(u) (Rule 456(d) and Rule 457(u)) shall be filed with the Commission within the time period set forth in Rule 456(d). The form of prospectus must be accompanied by the appropriate registration fee.
(2) The form of prospectus must include the following information in an exhibit submitted as required by Rule 408 of Regulation S-T:
(i) The name and address of issuer;
(ii) The name of the securities for which the prospectus is filed;
(iii) The Securities Act file number(s) of the registration statement(s) associated with the offering;
(iv) The last day of the fiscal year for the issuer for which the prospectus is filed;
(v) The calculation of registration fee information calculated pursuant to Rule 457(u); and
(vi) The total interest due pursuant to Rule 456(d)(5) and the total amount of registration fee due including any such interest, if the prospectus is being filed more than 90 days after the end of the issuer's fiscal year.
[14 FR 202, Jan. 14, 1949, as amended at 16 FR 8736, Aug. 29, 1951; 19 FR 400, Jan. 22, 1954; 19 FR 6728, Oct. 20, 1954; 21 FR 1046, Feb. 15, 1956; 52 FR 21260, June 5, 1987; 53 FR 3878, Feb. 10, 1988; 55 FR 23923, June 13, 1990; 56 FR 30054, July 1, 1991; 57 FR 48975, Oct. 29, 1992; 60 FR 26615, May 17, 1995; 62 FR 39763, July 24, 1997; 70 FR 44812, Aug. 3, 2005; 79 FR 57329, Sept. 24, 2014; 85 FR 33354, June 1, 2020; 87 FR 70199, Dec. 9, 2021; 89 FR 60083, July 24, 2024]
§ 230.425
Filing of certain prospectuses and communications under § 230.135 in connection with business combination transactions.
(a) All written communications made in reliance on § 230.165 are prospectuses that must be filed with the Commission under this section on the date of first use.
(b) All written communications that contain no more information than that specified in § 230.135 must be filed with the Commission on or before the date of first use except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. A communication limited to the information specified in § 230.135 will not be deemed an offer in accordance with § 230.135 even though it is filed under this section.
(c) Each prospectus or § 230.135 communication filed under this section must identify the filer, the company that is the subject of the offering and the Commission file number for the related registration statement or, if that file number is unknown, the subject company's Exchange Act or Investment Company Act file number, in the upper right corner of the cover page.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the following need not be filed under this section:
(1) Any written communication that is limited to the information specified in § 230.135 and does not contain new or different information from that which was previously publicly disclosed and filed under this section.
(2) Any research report used in reliance on § 230.137, § 230.138 and § 230.139;
(3) Any confirmation described in § 240.10b-10 of this chapter; and
(4) Any prospectus filed under § 230.424.

# Notes to § 230.425:
1. File five copies of the prospectus or § 230.135 communication if paper filing is permitted.
2. No filing is required under § 240.13e-4(c), § 240.14a-12(b), § 240.14d-2(b), or § 240.14d-9(a), if the communication is filed under this section. Communications filed under this section also are deemed filed under the other applicable sections.
[64 FR 61450, Nov. 10, 1999]
§ 230.426
Filing of certain prospectuses under § 230.167 in connection with certain offerings of asset-backed securities.
(a) All written communications made in reliance on § 230.167 are prospectuses that must be filed with the Commission in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section on Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter) and incorporated by reference to the related registration statement for the offering of asset-backed securities. Each prospectus filed under this section must identify the Commission file number of the related registration statement on the cover page of the related Form 8-K in addition to any other information required by that form. The information contained in any such prospectus shall be deemed to be a part of the registration statement as of the earlier of the time of filing of such information or the time of the filing of the final prospectus that meets the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)) relating to such offering pursuant to § 230.424(b).
(b) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section,
ABS informational and computational material
made in reliance on § 230.167 that meet the conditions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be filed within the time frame specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(1)
Conditions for which materials must be filed.
The materials are provided to prospective investors under the following conditions:
(i) If a prospective investor has indicated to the issuer or an underwriter that it will purchase all or a portion of the class of asset-backed securities to which such materials relate, all materials relating to such class that are or have been provided to such prospective investor; and
(ii) For any other prospective investor, all materials provided to such prospective investor after the final terms have been established for all classes of the offering.
(2)
Time frame to file the materials.
The materials must be filed by the later of:
(i) The due date for filing the final prospectus relating to such offering that meets the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)) pursuant to § 230.424(b); or
(ii) Two business days after first use.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following need not be filed under this section:
(1)
ABS informational and computational material
that relate to abandoned structures or that are furnished to a prospective investor prior to the time the final terms have been established for all classes of the offering where such prospective investor has not indicated to the issuer or an underwriter its intention to purchase the asset-backed securities.
(2) Any
ABS informational and computational material
if a prospectus that meets the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)) relating to the offering of such asset-backed securities accompanies or precedes the use of such material.
(3) Any
ABS informational and computational material
that does not contain new or different information from that which was previously disclosed and filed under this section.
(4) Any written communication that is limited to the information specified in § 230.134, 230.135 or 230.135c.
(5) Any research report used in reliance on § 230.137, 230.138, 230.139 or 230.139a.
(6) Any confirmation described in § 240.10b-10 of this chapter.
(7) Any prospectus filed under § 230.424.
(8) Any free writing prospectus used in reliance on Rule 164 and Rule 433 (§ 230.164 and § 230.433).
(d) Terms used in this section have the same meaning as in Item 1101 of Regulation AB (§ 229.1101 of this chapter).
Instruction to § 230.426.
The issuer may aggregate data presented in
ABS informational and computational material
that are to be filed and file such data in consolidated form. Any such
aggregation, however, must not result in either the omission of any information contained in such material otherwise to be filed, or a presentation that makes the information misleading.
[70 FR 1616, Jan. 7, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 44813, Aug. 3, 2005]
§ 230.427
Contents of prospectus used after nine months.
There may be omitted from any prospectus used more than 9 months after the effective date of the registration statement any information previously required to be contained in the prospectus insofar as later information covering the same subjects, including the latest available certified financial statement, as of a date not more than 16 months prior to the use of the prospectus is contained therein.
[47 FR 11440, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 230.428
Documents constituting a section 10(a) prospectus for Form S-8 registration statement; requirements relating to offerings of securities registered on Form S-8.
(a)(1) Where securities are to be offered pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter), the following, taken together, shall constitute a prospectus that meets the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act:
(i) The document(s), or portions thereof as permitted by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, containing the employee benefit plan information required by Item 1 of the Form;
(ii) The statement of availability of registrant information, employee benefit plan annual reports and other information required by Item 2; and
(iii) The documents containing registrant information and employee benefit plan annual reports that are incorporated by reference in the registration statement pursuant to Item 3.
(2) The registrant shall maintain a file of the documents that, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, at any time are part of the section 10(a) prospectus, except for documents required to be incorporated by reference in the registration statement pursuant to Item 3 of Form S-8. Each such document shall be included in the file until five years after it is last used as part of the Section 10(a) prospectus to offer or sell securities pursuant to the plan. With respect to documents containing specifically designated portions that constitute part of the section 10(a) prospectus pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the entire document shall be maintained in the file. Upon request, the registrant shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all of the documents included in the file.
(b) Where securities are offered pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8:
(1)(i) The registrant shall deliver or cause to be delivered, to each employee who is eligible to participate (or selected by the registrant to participate, in the case of a stock option or other plan with selective participation) in an employee benefit plan to which the registration statement relates, the information required by Part I of Form S-8. The information shall be in written form and shall be updated in writing in a timely manner to reflect any material changes during any period in which offers or sales are being made. When updating information is furnished, documents previously furnished need not be re-delivered, but the registrant shall furnish promptly without charge to each employee, upon written or oral request, a copy of all documents containing the plan information required by Part I that then constitute part of the section 10(a) prospectus.
(ii) The registrant may designate an entire document or only portions of a document as constituting part of the section 10(a) prospectus. If the registrant designates only portions of a document as constituting part of the prospectus, rather than the entire document, a statement clearly identifying such portions, for example, by reference to section headings, section numbers, paragraphs or page numbers within the document must be included in a conspicuous place in the forepart of the document, or such portions must be specifically designated throughout the text of the document. Registrants shall not designate only words or sentences within a paragraph as part of a prospectus. Unless the portions of a
document constituting part of the section 10(a) prospectus are clearly identified, the entire document shall constitute part of the prospectus.
(iii) The registrant shall date any document constituting part of the section 10(a) prospectus or containing portions constituting part of the prospectus and shall include the following printed, stamped or typed legend in a conspicuous place in the forepart of the document, substituting the bracketed language as appropriate: “This document [Specifically designated portions of this document] constitutes [constitute] part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.”
(iv) The registrant shall revise the document(s) containing the plan information sent or given to newly eligible participants pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, if documents containing updating information would obscure the readability of the plan information.
(2) The registrant shall deliver or cause to be delivered with the document(s) containing the information required by Part I of Form S-8, to each employee to whom such information is sent or given, a copy of any one of the following:
(i) The registrant's annual report to security holders containing the information required by Rule 14a-3(b) (§ 240.14a-3(b) of this chapter) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
Exchange Act
) for its latest fiscal year;
(ii) The registrant's annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter), 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter) or, in the case of registrants described in General Instruction A.(2) of Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter), for its latest fiscal year;
(iii) The latest prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) (§ 230.424(b)) under the Act that contains audited financial statements for the registrant's latest fiscal year,
Provided
that the financial statements are not incorporated by reference from another filing, and
Provided
further that such prospectus contains substantially the information required by Rule 14a-3(b) (§ 240.14a-3(b) of this chapter) or the registration statement was on Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter) or F-1 (§ 239.31 of this chapter); or
(iv) The registrant's effective Exchange Act registration statement on Form 10 (§ 249.210 of this chapter), 20-F or, in the case of registrants described in General Instruction A.(2) of Form 40-F, containing audited financial statements for the registrant's latest fiscal year.
Instructions.
1. If a registrant has previously sent or given an employee a copy of any document specified in clauses (i)-(iv) of paragraph (b)(2) for the latest fiscal year, it need not be re-delivered, but the registrant shall furnish promptly, without charge, a copy of such document upon written or oral request of the employee.
2. If the latest fiscal year of the registrant has ended within 120 days (or 190 days with respect to foreign private issuers) prior to the delivery of the documents containing the information specified by Part I of Form S-8, the registrant may deliver a document containing financial statements for the fiscal year preceding the last fiscal year,
Provided that
within the 120 or 190 day period a document containing financial statements for the latest fiscal year is furnished to each employee.
(3) The registrant shall deliver or cause to be delivered promptly, without charge, to each employee to whom information is required to be delivered, upon written or oral request, a copy of the information that has been incorporated by reference pursuant to Item 3 of Form S-8 (not including exhibits to the information that is incorporated by reference unless such exhibits are specifically incorporated by reference into the information that the registration statement incorporates).
(4) Where interests in a plan are registered, the registrant shall deliver or cause to be delivered promptly, without charge, to each employee to whom information is required to be delivered, upon written or oral request, a copy of the then latest annual report of the plan filed pursuant to section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, whether on Form 11-K (§ 249.311 of this chapter) or included as part of the registrant's annual report on Form 10-K.
(5) The registrant shall deliver or cause to be delivered to all employees participating in a stock option plan or plan fund that invests in registrant securities (and other plan participants
who request such information orally or in writing) who do not otherwise receive such material, copies of all reports, proxy statements and other communications distributed to its security holders generally, provided that such material is sent or delivered no later than the time it is sent to security holders.
(c) As used in this Rule, the term
employee benefit plan
is defined in Rule 405 of Regulation C (§ 230.405 of this chapter) and the term
employee
is defined in General Instruction A.1 of Form S-8.
[55 FR 23923, June 13, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 10614, Mar. 27, 1992; 73 FR 969, Jan. 4, 2008]
§ 230.429
Prospectus relating to several registration statements.
(a) Where a registrant has filed two or more registration statements, it may file a single prospectus in the latest registration statement in order to satisfy the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder for that offering and any other offering(s) registered on the earlier registration statement(s). The combined prospectus in the latest registration statement must include all of the information that currently would be required in a prospectus relating to all offering(s) that it covers. The combined prospectus may be filed as part of the initial filing of the latest registration statement, in a pre-effective amendment to it or in a post-effective amendment to it.
(b) Where a registrant relies on paragraph (a) of this section, the registration statement containing the combined prospectus shall act, upon effectiveness, as a post-effective amendment to any earlier registration statement whose prospectus has been combined in the latest registration statement. The registrant must identify any earlier registration statement to which the combined prospectus relates by setting forth the Commission file number at the bottom of the facing page of the latest registration statement.
[66 FR 8896, Feb. 5, 2001]
§ 230.430
Prospectus for use prior to effective date.
(a) A form of prospectus filed as a part of the registration statement shall be deemed to meet the requirements of section 10 of the Act for the purpose of section 5(b)(1) thereof prior to the effective date of the registration statement, provided such form of prospectus contains substantially the information required by the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder to be included in a prospectus meeting the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act for the securities being registered, or contains substantially that information except for the omission of information with respect to the offering price, underwriting discounts or commissions, discounts or commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds, conversion rates, call prices, or other matters dependent upon the offering price. Every such form of prospectus shall be deemed to have been filed as a part of the registration statement for the purpose of section 7 of the Act.
(b) A form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement on Form N-1A (§ 239.15A and § 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§ 239.14 and § 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§ 239.17a and § 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§ 239.17b and § 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§ 239.17c and § 274.11d of this chapter) shall be deemed to meet the requirements of Section 10 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j) for the purpose of Section 5(b)(1) thereof (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(1)) prior to the effective date of the registration statement, provided that:
(1) Such form of prospectus meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) Such registration statement contains a form of Statement of Additional Information that is made available to persons receiving such prospectus upon written or oral request, and without charge, unless the form of prospectus contains the information otherwise required to be disclosed in the form of Statement of Additional Information. Every such form of prospectus shall be deemed to have been filed as part of the registration statement for the purpose of section 7 of the Act.
[47 FR 11440, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 56834, Dec. 1, 1992; 67 FR 19868, Apr. 23, 2002; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 230.430A
Prospectus in a registration statement at the time of effectiveness.
(a) The form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement that is declared effective may omit information with respect to the public offering price, underwriting syndicate (including any material relationships between the registrant and underwriters not named therein), underwriting discounts or commissions, discounts or commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds, conversion rates, call prices and other items dependent upon the offering price, delivery dates, and terms of the securities dependent upon the offering date; and such form of prospectus need not contain such information in order for the registration statement to meet the requirements of Section 7 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77g) for the purposes of Section 5 thereof (15 U.S.C. 77e),
Provided,
That:
(1) The securities to be registered are offered for cash;
(2) The registrant furnishes the undertakings required by § 229.512(i) of this chapter (Item 512(i) of Regulation S-K), or the undertakings required by Item 34.4 of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter); and
(3) The information ommitted in reliance upon paragraph (a) from the form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement that is declared effective is contained in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) or Rule 497(h) under the Securities Act (§§ 230.424(b) or 230.497(h) of this chapter); except that if such form of prospectus is not so filed by the later of fifteen business days after the effective date of the registration statement or fifteen business days after the effectiveness of a post-effective amendment thereto that contains a form of prospectus, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date, the information omitted in reliance upon paragraph (a) must be contained in an effective post-effective amendment to the registration statement.
Instruction to paragraph (a):
A decrease in the volume of securities offered or change in the bona fide estimate of the maximum offering price range from that indicated in the form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement that is declared effective may be disclosed in the form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to § 230.424(b) or § 230.497(h) under the Securities Act so long as the decrease in the volume or change in the price range would not materially change the disclosure contained in the registration statement at effectiveness. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any increase or decrease in volume (if the total dollar value of securities offered would not exceed that which was registered) and any deviation from the low or high end of the range may be reflected in the form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(1) (§ 230.424(b)(1)) or Rule 497(h) (§ 230.497(h)) if, in the aggregate, the changes in volume and price represent no more than a 20% change in the maximum aggregate offering price set forth in the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table in the effective registration statement.
(b) The information omitted in reliance upon paragraph (a) from the form of prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement, and contained in the form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) or Rule 497(h) under the Securities Act (§§ 230.424(b) or 230.497(h) of this chapter), shall be deemed to be a part of the registration statement as of the time it was declared effective.
(c) When used prior to determination of the offering price of the securities, a form of prospectus relating to the securities offered pursuant to a registration statement that is declared effective with information omitted from the form of prospectus filed as part of such effective registration statement in reliance upon this Rule 430A need not contain information omitted pursuant to paragraph (a), in order to meet the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77j) for the purpose of section 5(b)(1) (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(1)) thereof. This provision shall not limit the information required to be contained in a form of prospectus meeting the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act for the purposes of section 5(b)(2) thereof or exception (a) of Section 2(10) (15 U.S.C. 77b(10)) thereof.
(d) This rule shall not apply to registration statements for securities to be offered by competitive bidding.
(e) In the case of a registration statement filed on Form N-1A (§ 239.15A and § 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§ 239.14 and § 274.11a-1 of this chapter),
Form N-3 (§ 239.17a and § 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§ 239.17b and § 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§ 239.17c and § 274.11d of this chapter), the references to “form of prospectus” in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the accompanying Note shall be deemed also to refer to the form of Statement of Additional Information filed as part of such a registration statement.
(f) This section may apply to registration statements that are immediately effective pursuant to Rule 462(e) and (f) (§ 230.462(e) and (f)).

# Note:
If information is omitted in reliance upon paragraph (a) from the form of prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement, or effective post-effective amendment thereto, the registrant must ascertain promptly whether a form of prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424(b) of Rule 497(h) under the Securities Act actually was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, promptly file such prospectus.
[52 FR 21261, June 5, 1987, as amended at 56 FR 48103, Sept. 24, 1991; 57 FR 48976, Oct. 29, 1992; 57 FR 56834, Dec. 1, 1992; 60 FR 26616, May 17, 1995; 67 FR 19869, Apr. 23, 2002; 70 FR 44813, Aug. 3, 2005; 85 FR 33354, June 1, 2020]
§ 230.430B
Prospectus in a registration statement after effective date.
(a) A form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement for offerings pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(x) (§ 230.415(a)(1)(x)) may omit from the information required by the form to be in the prospectus information that is unknown or not reasonably available to the issuer pursuant to Rule 409 (§ 230.409). In addition, a form of prospectus filed as part of an automatic shelf registration statement for offerings pursuant to Rule 415(a) (§ 230.415(a)), other than Rule 415(a)(1)(viii), also may omit information as to whether the offering is a primary offering or an offering on behalf of persons other than the issuer, or a combination thereof, the plan of distribution for the securities, a description of the securities registered other than an identification of the name or class of such securities, and the identification of other issuers. Each such form of prospectus shall be deemed to have been filed as part of the registration statement for the purpose of section 7 of the Act.
(b) A form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement for offerings pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(i) by an issuer eligible to use Form S-3 or Form F-3 (§ 239.13 or § 239.33 of this chapter) for primary offerings pursuant to General Instruction I.B.1 of such forms, or an issuer eligible to register such a primary offering under General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), may omit the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and may also omit the identities of selling security holders and amounts of securities to be registered on their behalf if:
(1) The registration statement is an automatic shelf registration statement as defined in Rule 405 (§ 230.405); or
(2) All of the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) The initial offering transaction of the securities (or securities convertible into such securities) the resale of which are being registered on behalf of each of the selling security holders, was completed;
(ii) The securities (or securities convertible into such securities) were issued and outstanding prior to the original date of filing the registration statement covering the resale of the securities;
(iii) The registration statement refers to any unnamed selling security holders in a generic manner by identifying the initial offering transaction in which the securities were sold; and
(iv) The issuer is not and during the past three years neither the issuer nor any of its predecessors was:
(A) A blank check company as defined in Rule 419(a)(2) (§ 230.419(a)(2));
(B) A shell company, other than a business combination related shell company, each as defined in Rule 405; or
(C) An issuer in an offering of penny stock as defined in Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.3a51-1 of this chapter).
(c) A form of prospectus that is part of a registration statement that omits information in reliance upon paragraph (a) or (b) of this section meets the requirements of section 10 of the Act for the purpose of section 5(b)(1) thereof.
This provision shall not limit the information required to be contained in a form of prospectus in order to meet the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act for the purposes of section 5(b)(2) thereof or exception (a) of section 2(a)(10) thereof.
(d) Information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may be included subsequently in the prospectus that is part of a registration statement by:
(1) A post-effective amendment to the registration statement;
(2) A prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) (§ 230.424(b)); or
(3) If the applicable form permits, including the information in the issuer's periodic or current reports filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the prospectus that is part of the registration statement in accordance with applicable requirements, subject to the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section.
(e) Information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and contained in a form of prospectus required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b), other than as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be deemed part of and included in the registration statement as of the date such form of filed prospectus is first used after effectiveness.
(f)(1) Information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and is contained in a form of prospectus required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2), (b)(5), or (b)(7), shall be deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement on the earlier of the date such subsequent form of prospectus is first used or the date and time of the first contract of sale of securities in the offering to which such subsequent form of prospectus relates.
(2) The date on which a form of prospectus is deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be deemed, for purposes of liability under section 11 of the Act of the issuer and any underwriter at the time only, to be a new effective date of the part of such registration statement relating to the securities to which such form of prospectus relates, such part of the registration statement consisting of all information included in the registration statement and any prospectus relating to the offering of such securities (including information relating to the offering in a prospectus already included in the registration statement) as of such date and all information relating to the offering included in reports and materials incorporated by reference into such registration statement and prospectus as of such date, and in each case not modified or superseded pursuant to Rule 412 (§ 230.412). The offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial
bona fide
offering thereof.
(3) If a registration statement is amended to include or is deemed to include, through incorporation by reference or otherwise, except as otherwise provided in Rule 436 (§ 230.436), a report or opinion of any person made on such person's authority as an expert whose consent would be required under section 7 of the Act because of being named as having prepared or certified part of the registration statement, then for purposes of this section and for liability purposes under section 11 of the Act, the part of the registration statement for which liability against such person is asserted shall be considered as having become effective with respect to such person as of the time the report or opinion is deemed to be part of the registration statement and a consent required pursuant to section 7 of the Act has been provided as contemplated by section 11 of the Act.
(4) Except for an effective date resulting from the filing of a form of prospectus filed for purposes of including information required by section 10(a)(3) of the Act or pursuant to § 229.512(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter (Item 512(a)(1)(ii) of Regulation S-K) or Item 34.3.a(2) of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), the date a form of prospectus is deemed part of
and included in the registration statement pursuant to this paragraph (f)(4) shall not be an effective date established pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section as to:
(i) Any director (or person acting in such capacity) of the issuer;
(ii) Any person signing any report or document incorporated by reference into the registration statement, except for such a report or document incorporated by reference for purposes of including information required by section 10(a)(3) of the Act or pursuant to Item 512(a)(1)(ii) of Regulation S-K or Item 34.3.a(2) of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) (such person except for such reports being deemed not to be a person who signed the registration statement within the meaning of section 11(a) of the Act).
(5) The date a form of prospectus is deemed part of and included in the registration statement pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall not be an effective date established pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section as to:
(i) Any accountant with respect to financial statements or other financial information contained in the registration statement as of a prior effective date and for which the accountant previously provided a consent to be named as required by section 7 of the Act, unless the form of prospectus contains new audited financial statements or other financial information as to which the accountant is an expert and for which a new consent is required pursuant to section 7 of the Act or Rule 436; and
(ii) Any other person whose report or opinion as an expert or counsel has, with their consent, previously been included in the registration statement as of a prior effective date, unless the form of prospectus contains a new report or opinion for which a new consent is required pursuant to section 7 of the Act or Rule 436.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (e) or (f) of this section or paragraph (a) of Rule 412, no statement made in a registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement or made in a document incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement after the effective date of such registration statement or portion thereof in respect of an offering determined pursuant to this section will, as to a purchaser with a time of contract of sale prior to such effective date, supersede or modify any statement that was made in the registration statement or prospectus that was part of the registration statement or made in any such document immediately prior to such effective date.
(h) Where a form of prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) relating to an offering does not include disclosure of omitted information regarding the terms of the offering, the securities, or the plan of distribution, or selling security holders for the securities that are the subject of the form of prospectus, because such omitted information has been included in periodic or current reports filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the prospectus, the issuer shall file a form of prospectus identifying the periodic or current reports that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the prospectus that is part of the registration statement that contain such omitted information. Such form of prospectus shall be required to be filed, depending on the nature of the incorporated information, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2), (b)(5), or (b)(7).
(i) Issuers relying on this section shall furnish the undertakings required by Item 512(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 34.3 of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) as applicable.

# Note to Rule 430B:
The provisions of paragraph (b) of Rule 401 (§ 230.401(b)) shall apply to any prospectus filed for purposes of including information required by section 10(a)(3) of the Act.
[70 FR 44813, Aug. 3, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 969, Jan. 4, 2008; 79 FR 57329, Sept. 24, 2014; 85 FR 33354, June 1, 2020]
§ 230.430C
Prospectus in a registration statement pertaining to an offering other than pursuant to Rule 430A or Rule 430B after the effective date.
(a) In offerings made other than in reliance on Rule 430B (§ 230.430B) or Rule 430D (§ 230.430D) and other than
for prospectuses filed in reliance on Rule 430A (§ 230.430A), information contained in a form of prospectus required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) (§ 230.424(b)) or Rule 497(b), (c), (d), or (e) (§ 230.497(b), (c), (d) or (e)), shall be deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement on the date it is first used after effectiveness.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section or paragraph (a) of Rule 412 (§ 230.412), no statement made in a registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement or made in a document incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement will, as to a purchaser with a time of contract of sale prior to such first use, supersede or modify any statement that was made in the registration statement or prospectus that was part of the registration statement or made in any such document immediately prior to such date of first use.
(c) Nothing in this section shall affect the information required to be included in an issuer's registration statement and prospectus.
(d) Issuers subject to paragraph (a) of this section shall furnish the undertakings required by Item 512(a) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512(a) of this chapter) or Item 34.4 of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), as applicable.
[70 FR 44815, Aug. 3, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 969, Jan. 4, 2008; 79 FR 57329, Sept. 24, 2014]
§ 230.430D
Prospectus in a registration statement after effective date for asset-backed securities offerings.
(a) A form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement for primary offerings of asset-backed securities pursuant to § 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or § 230.415(a)(1)(xii) may omit from the information required by the form to be in the prospectus information that is unknown or not reasonably available to the issuer pursuant to § 230.409.
(b) Information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section (other than information with respect to offering price, underwriting syndicate (including any material relationships between the registrant and underwriters not named therein), underwriting discounts or commissions, discounts or commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds or other matters dependent upon the offering price to the extent such information is unknown or not reasonably available to the issuer pursuant to § 230.409) shall be disclosed in a form of prospectus required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to § 230.424(h). Each such form of prospectus shall be deemed to have been filed as part of the registration statement for the purpose of section 7 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77g).
(c) A form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement that omits information in reliance upon paragraph (a) of this section meets the requirements of section 10 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j) for the purpose of section 5(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(1)). This provision shall not limit the information required to be contained in a form of prospectus in order to meet the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act for the purposes of section 5(b)(2) (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(2)) or exception (a) of section 2(a)(10) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(10)(a)).
(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) or (d)(2) of this section, information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section may be included subsequently in the prospectus that is part of a registration statement by:
(i) A post-effective amendment to the registration statement;
(ii) A prospectus filed pursuant to § 230.424(b); or
(iii) If the applicable form permits, including the information in the issuer's periodic or current reports filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the prospectus that is part of the registration statement in accordance with the applicable requirements, subject to the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) Information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section that adds a new structural feature or credit enhancement must be included subsequently in the prospectus that is part of a registration statement by a post-effective amendment to the registration statement.
(e)(1) Information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section and contained in a form of prospectus required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to § 230.424(b), other than as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be deemed part of and included in the registration statement as of the date such form of filed prospectus is first used after effectiveness.
(2) Information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section and contained in a form of prospectus required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to § 230.424(h) shall be deemed part of and included in the registration statement the earlier of the date such form of filed prospectus is filed with the Commission pursuant to § 230.424(h) or, if used earlier than the date of filing, the date it is first used after effectiveness.
(f)(1) Information omitted from a form of prospectus that is part of an effective registration statement in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section, and is contained in a form of prospectus required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to § 230.424(b)(2) or (b)(5), shall be deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement on the earlier of the date such subsequent form of prospectus is first used or the date and time of the first contract of sale of securities in the offering to which such subsequent form of prospectus relates.
(2) The date on which a form of prospectus is deemed to be part of and included in the registration statement pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be deemed, for purposes of liability under section 11 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77k) of the issuer and any underwriter at the time only, to be a new effective date of the part of such registration statement relating to the securities to which such form of prospectus relates, such part of the registration statement consisting of all information included in the registration statement and any prospectus relating to the offering of such securities (including information relating to the offering in a prospectus already included in the registration statement) as of such date and all information relating to the offering included in reports and materials incorporated by reference into such registration statement and prospectus as of such date, and in each case not modified or superseded pursuant to § 230.412. The offering of such securities at that time shall be deemed to be the initial
bona fide
offering thereof.
(3) If a registration statement is amended to include or is deemed to include, through incorporation by reference or otherwise, except as otherwise provided in § 230.436, a report or opinion of any person made on such person's authority as an expert whose consent would be required under section 7 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77g) because of being named as having prepared or certified part of the registration statement, then for purposes of this section and for liability purposes under section 11 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77k), the part of the registration statement for which liability against such person is asserted shall be considered as having become effective with respect to such person as of the time the report or opinion is deemed to be part of the registration statement and a consent required pursuant to section 7 of the Act has been provided as contemplated by section 11 of the Act.
(4) Except for an effective date resulting from the filing of a form of prospectus filed for purposes of including information required by section 10(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3)) or pursuant to Item 512(a)(1)(ii) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter), the date a form of prospectus is deemed part of and included in the registration statement pursuant to this paragraph shall not be an effective date established pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section as to:
(i) Any director (or person acting in such capacity) of the issuer;
(ii) Any person signing any report or document incorporated by reference into the registration statement, except for such a report or document incorporated by reference for purposes of including information required by section 10(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3)) or pursuant to Item 512(a)(1)(ii) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter) (such person except for such reports being deemed not to be a person who signed the registration statement within the meaning of section 11(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77k(a)).
(5) The date a form of prospectus is deemed part of and included in the registration statement pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall not be an effective date established pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section as to:
(i) Any accountant with respect to financial statements or other financial information contained in the registration statement as of a prior effective date and for which the accountant previously provided a consent to be named as required by section 7 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77g), unless the form of prospectus contains new audited financial statements or other financial information as to which the accountant is an expert and for which a new consent is required pursuant to section 7 of the Act or § 230.436; and
(ii) Any other person whose report or opinion as an expert or counsel has, with their consent, previously been included in the registration statement as of a prior effective date, unless the form of prospectus contains a new report or opinion for which a new consent is required pursuant to section 7 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77g) or § 230.436.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (e) or (f) of this section or § 230.412(a), no statement made in a registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement or made in a document incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the registration statement or prospectus that is part of the registration statement after the effective date of such registration statement or portion thereof in respect of an offering determined pursuant to this section will, as to a purchaser with a time of contract of sale prior to such effective date, supersede or modify any statement that was made in the registration statement or prospectus that was part of the registration statement or made in any such document immediately prior to such effective date.
(h) Where a form of prospectus filed pursuant to § 230.424(b) relating to an offering does not include disclosure of omitted information regarding the terms of the offering, the securities or the plan of distribution for the securities that are the subject of the form of prospectus, because such omitted information has been included in periodic or current reports filed pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the prospectus, the issuer shall file a form of prospectus identifying the periodic or current reports that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference into the prospectus that is part of the registration statement that contain such omitted information. Such form of prospectus shall be required to be filed, depending on the nature of the incorporated information, pursuant to § 230.424(b)(2) or (b)(5).
(i) Issuers relying on this section shall furnish the undertakings required by Item 512(a) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512(a) of this chapter).
[79 FR 57329, Sept. 24, 2014]
§ 230.431
Summary prospectuses.
(a) A summary prospectus prepared and filed (except a summary prospectus filed by an open-end management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or a separate account (as defined in section 2(a)(14) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(14)) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 on §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3), §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4), or §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6) as part of a registration statement in accordance with this section shall be deemed to be a prospectus permitted under section 10(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(b)) for the purposes of section 5(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C.
77e(b)(1)) if the form used for registration of the securities to be offered provides for the use of a summary prospectus and the following conditions are met:
(1)(i) The registrant is organized under the laws of the United States or any State or Territory or the District of Columbia and has its principal business operations in the United States or its territories; or
(ii) The registrant is a foreign private issuer eligible to use Form F-2 (§ 239.32 of this chapter);
(2) The registrant has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or has a class of equity securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of that Act or is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of that Act;
(3) The registrant: (i) Has been subject to the requirements of section 12 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and has filed all the material required to be filed pursuant to sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of that Act for a period of at least thirty-six calendar months immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement; and (ii) has filed in a timely manner all reports required to be filed during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement and, if the registrant has used (during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement) Rule 12b-25(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.12b-25 of this chapter) with respect to a report or portion of a report, that report or portion thereof has actually been filed within the time period prescribed by that Rule; and
(4) Neither the registrant nor any of its consolidated or unconsolidated subsidiaries has, since the end of its last fiscal year for which certified financial statements of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries were included in a report filed pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: (i) failed to pay any dividend or sinking fund installment on preferred stock; or (ii) defaulted on any installment or installments on indebtedness for borrowed money, or on any rental on one or more long term leases, which defaults in the aggregate are material to the financial position of the registrant and its consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(b) A summary prospectus shall contain the information specified in the instructions as to summary prospectuses in the form used for registration of the securities to be offered. Such prospectus may include any other information the substance of which is contained in the registration statement except as otherwise specifically provided in the instructions as to summary prospectuses in the form used for registration. It shall not include any information the substance of which is not contained in the registration statement except that a summary prospectus may contain any information specified in Rule 134(a) (§ 230.134(a)). No reference need be made to inapplicable terms and negative answers to any item of the form may be omitted.
(c) All information included in a summary prospectus, other than the statement required by paragraph (e) of this section, may be expressed in such condensed or summarized form as may be appropriate in the light of the circumstances under which the prospectus is to be used. The information need not follow the numerical sequence of the items of the form used for registration. Every summary prospectus shall be dated approximately as of the date of its first use.
(d) When used prior to the effective date of the registration statement, a summary prospectus shall be captioned a “Preliminary Summary Prospectus” and shall comply with the applicable requirements relating to a preliminary prospectus.
(e) A statement to the following effect shall be prominently set forth in conspicuous print at the beginning or at the end of every summary prospectus:
“Copies of a more complete prospectus may be obtained from” (Insert name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s)).
Copies of a summary prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section may omit the
names of persons from whom the complete prospectus may be obtained.
(f) Any summary prospectus published in a newspaper, magazine or other periodical need only be set in type at least as large as 7 point modern type. Nothing in this rule shall prevent the use of reprints of a summary prospectus published in a newspaper, magazine, or other periodical, if such reprints are clearly legible.
(g) Eight copies of every proposed summary prospectus shall be filed as a part of the registration statement, or as an amendment thereto, at least 5 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) prior to the use thereof, or prior to the release for publication by any newspaper, magazine or other person, whichever is earlier. The Commission may, however, in its discretion, authorize such use or publication prior to the expiration of the 5-day period upon a written request for such authorization. Within 7 days after the first use or publication thereof, 5 additional copies shall be filed in the exact form in which it was used or published.
[47 FR 11440, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 54770, Dec. 6, 1982; 63 FR 13984, Mar. 23, 1998; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 85 FR 26093, May 1, 2020]
§ 230.432
Additional information required to be included in prospectuses relating to tender offers.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any form for the registration of securities under the Act, any prospectus relating to securities to be offered in connection with a tender offer for, or a request or invitation for tenders of, securities subject to either § 240.13e-4 or section 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78n(d)) must include the information required by § 240.13e-4(d)(1) or § 240.14d-6(d)(1) of this chapter, as applicable, in all tender offers, requests or invitations that are published, sent or given to security holders.
[64 FR 61451, Nov. 10, 1999]
§ 230.433
Conditions to permissible post-filing free writing prospectuses.
(a)
Scope of section.
This section applies to any free writing prospectus with respect to securities of any issuer (except as set forth in Rule 164 (§ 230.164)) that are the subject of a registration statement that has been filed under the Act. Such a free writing prospectus that satisfies the conditions of this section may include information the substance of which is not included in the registration statement. Such a free writing prospectus that satisfies the conditions of this section will be a prospectus permitted under section 10(b) of the Act for purposes of sections 2(a)(10), 5(b)(1), and 5(b)(2) of the Act and will, for purposes of considering it a prospectus, be deemed to be public, without regard to its method of use or distribution, because it is related to the public offering of securities that are the subject of a filed registration statement.
(b)
Permitted use of free writing prospectus.
Subject to the conditions of this paragraph (b) and satisfaction of the conditions set forth in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, a free writing prospectus may be used under this section and Rule 164 in connection with a registered offering of securities:
(1)
Eligibility and prospectus conditions for seasoned issuers, well-known seasoned issuers, and offerings of registered non-variable annuity securities.
Subject to the provisions of Rule 164(e), (f), and (g), the issuer or any other offering participant may use a free writing prospectus in the following offerings after a registration statement relating to the offering has been filed that includes a prospectus that, other than by reason of this section or Rule 431, satisfies the requirements of section 10 of the Act:
(i) Offerings of securities registered on Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter) pursuant to General Instruction I.B.1, I.B.2, I.C., or I.D. thereof or on Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter) or on Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) pursuant to General Instruction A.2 with respect to the same transactions;
(ii) Offerings of securities registered on Form F-3 (§ 239.33 of this chapter) pursuant to General Instruction I.A.5, I.B.1, I.B.2, or I.C. thereof;
(iii) Any other offering not excluded from reliance on this section and Rule
164 of securities of a well-known seasoned issuer;
(iv) Any other offering not excluded from reliance on this section and Rule 164 of securities of an issuer eligible to use Form S-3 or Form F-3 for primary offerings pursuant to General Instruction I.B.1 of such Forms or an issuer eligible to use General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2 to register a primary offering described in General Instruction I.B.1 of Form S-3; and
(v) Offerings of registered non-variable annuity securities registered on Form N-4 (§ 239.17b of this chapter) where the issuer would otherwise be eligible to use Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter) pursuant to General Instruction I.B.1, I.B.2, I.C, or I.D.
(2)
Eligibility and prospectus conditions for non-reporting and unseasoned issuers.
If the issuer does not fall within the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, then, subject to the provisions of Rule 164(e), (f), and (g), any person participating in the offer or sale of the securities may use a free writing prospectus as follows:
(i) If the free writing prospectus is or was prepared by or on behalf of or used or referred to by an issuer or any other offering participant, if consideration has been or will be given by the issuer or other offering participant for the dissemination (in any format) of any free writing prospectus (including any published article, publication, or advertisement), or if section 17(b) of the Act requires disclosure that consideration has been or will be given by the issuer or other offering participant for any activity described therein in connection with the free writing prospectus, then a registration statement relating to the offering must have been filed that includes a prospectus that, other than by reason of this section or Rule 431, satisfies the requirements of section 10 of the Act, including a price range where required by rule, and the free writing prospectus shall be accompanied or preceded by the most recent such prospectus;
provided, however
, that use of the free writing prospectus is not conditioned on providing the most recent such prospectus if a prior such prospectus has been provided and there is no material change from the prior prospectus reflected in the most recent prospectus;
provided further,
that after effectiveness and availability of a final prospectus meeting the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act, no such earlier prospectus may be provided in satisfaction of this condition, and such final prospectus must precede or accompany any free writing prospectus provided after such availability, whether or not an earlier prospectus had been previously provided.

# Notes to paragraph (
b

# )(2)(
i

# ) of Rule 433.
1. The condition that a free writing prospectus shall be accompanied or preceded by the most recent prospectus satisfying the requirements of section 10 of the Act would be satisfied if a free writing prospectus that is an electronic communication contained an active hyperlink to such most recent prospectus; and
2. A communication for which disclosure would be required under section 17(b) of the Act as a result of consideration given or to be given, directly or indirectly, by or on behalf of an issuer or other offering participant is an offer by the issuer or such other offering participant as the case may be and is, if written, a free writing prospectus of the issuer or other offering participant.
(ii) Where paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section does not apply, a registration statement relating to the offering has been filed that includes a prospectus that, other than by reason of this section or Rule 431 satisfies the requirements of section 10 of the Act, including a price range where required by rule. For purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, the prospectus included in the registration statement relating to the offering that has been filed does not have to include a price range otherwise required by rule.
(3)
Successors.
A successor issuer will be considered to satisfy the applicable provisions of this paragraph (b) if:
(i) Its predecessor and it, taken together, satisfy the conditions, provided that the succession was primarily for the purpose of changing the state or other jurisdiction of incorporation of the predecessor or forming a holding company and the assets and liabilities of the successor at the time of succession were substantially the same as those of the predecessor; or
(ii) All predecessors met the conditions at the time of succession and the issuer has continued to do so since the succession.
(c)
Information in a free writing prospectus.
(1) A free writing prospectus used in reliance on this section may include information the substance of which is not included in the registration statement but such information shall not conflict with:
(i) Information contained in the filed registration statement, including any prospectus or prospectus supplement that is part of the registration statement (including pursuant to Rule 430B (§ 230.430B), Rule 430C (§ 230.430C) or Rule 430D (§ 230.430D) and not superseded or modified; or
(ii) Information contained in the issuer's periodic and current reports filed or furnished to the Commission pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) that are incorporated by reference into the registration statement and not superseded or modified, or pursuant to section 30 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-29).
(2)(i) A free writing prospectus used in reliance on this section shall contain substantially the following legend:
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at
www.sec.gov.
Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free 1-8[xx-xxx-xxxx].
(ii) The legend also may provide an e-mail address at which the documents can be requested and may indicate that the documents also are available by accessing the issuer's Web site and provide the Internet address and the particular location of the documents on the Web site.
(3) A free writing prospectus with respect to securities of a registered closed-end investment company or a business development company that includes fee or expense information must comply with paragraphs (i) and (j) of § 230.482 (Rule 482), as applicable.
(d)
Filing conditions.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3), (d)(4), (d)(5), (d)(6), (d)(7), (d)(8), and (f) of this section, the following shall be filed with the Commission under this section by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing no later than the date of first use. The free writing prospectus filed for purposes of this section will not be filed as part of the registration statement:
(i) The issuer shall file:
(A) Any issuer free writing prospectus, as defined in paragraph (h) of this section;
(B) Any issuer information that is contained in a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of or used by any other offering participant (but not information prepared by or on behalf of a person other than the issuer on the basis of or derived from that issuer information); and
(C) A description of the final terms of the issuer's securities in the offering or of the offering contained in a free writing prospectus or portion thereof prepared by or on behalf of the issuer or any offering participant, after such terms have been established for all classes in the offering; and
(ii) Any offering participant, other than the issuer, shall file any free writing prospectus that is used or referred to by such offering participant and distributed by or on behalf of such person in a manner reasonably designed to lead to its broad unrestricted dissemination.
(2) Each free writing prospectus or issuer information contained in a free writing prospectus filed under this section shall identify in the filing the Commission file number for the related registration statement or, if that file number is unknown, a description sufficient to identify the related registration statement.
(3) The condition to file a free writing prospectus under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not apply if the free writing prospectus does not contain substantive changes from or additions to a free writing prospectus previously filed with the Commission.
(4) The condition to file issuer information contained in a free writing prospectus of an offering participant other than the issuer shall not apply if such
information is included (including through incorporation by reference) in a prospectus or free writing prospectus previously filed that relates to the offering.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section:
(i) To the extent a free writing prospectus or portion thereof otherwise required to be filed contains a description of terms of the issuer's securities in the offering or of the offering that does not reflect the final terms, such free writing prospectus or portion thereof is not required to be filed; and
(ii) A free writing prospectus or portion thereof that contains only a description of the final terms of the issuer's securities in the offering or of the offerings shall be filed by the issuer within two days of the later of the date such final terms have been established for all classes of the offering and the date of first use.
(6)(i) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, in an offering of asset-backed securities, a free writing prospectus or portion thereof required to be filed that contains only ABS informational and computational materials as defined in Item 1101(a) of Regulation AB (§ 229.1101 of this chapter), may be filed under this section within the timeframe permitted by Rule 426(b) (§ 230.426(b)) and such filing will satisfy the filing conditions under this section.
(ii) In the event that a free writing prospectus is used in reliance on this section and Rule 164 and the conditions of this section and Rule 164 (which may include the conditions of paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section) are satisfied with respect thereto, then the use of that free writing prospectus shall not be conditioned on satisfaction of the provisions, including without limitation the filing conditions, of Rule 167 and Rule 426 (§§ 230.167 and 230.426). In the event that ABS informational and computational materials are used in reliance on Rule 167 and Rule 426 and the conditions of those rules are satisfied with respect thereto, then the use of those materials shall not be conditioned on the satisfaction of the conditions of Rule 164 and this section.
(7) The condition to file a free writing prospectus or issuer information pursuant to this paragraph (d) for a free writing prospectus used at the same time as a communication in a business combination transaction subject to Rule 425 (§ 230.425) shall be satisfied if:
(i) The free writing prospectus or issuer information is filed in accordance with the provisions of Rule 425, including the filing timeframe of Rule 425;
(ii) The filed material pursuant to Rule 425 indicates on the cover page that it also is being filed pursuant to Rule 433; and
(iii) The filed material pursuant to Rule 425 contains the information specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(8) Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (d):
(i) A road show for an offering that is a written communication is a free writing prospectus, provided that, except as provided in paragraph (d)(8)(ii) of this section, a written communication that is a road show shall not be required to be filed; and
(ii) In the case of a road show that is a written communication for an offering of common equity or convertible equity securities by an issuer that is, at the time of the filing of the registration statement for the offering, not required to file reports with the Commission pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, such a road show is required to be filed pursuant to this section unless the issuer of the securities makes at least one version of a
bona fide
electronic road show available without restriction by means of graphic communication to any person, including any potential investor in the securities (and if there is more than one version of a road show for the offering that is a written communication, the version available without restriction is made available no later than the other versions).

# Note to paragraph (
d

# )(8):
A communication that is provided or transmitted simultaneously with a road show and is provided or transmitted in a manner designed to make the communication available only as part of the road show and not separately is deemed to be part of the road show. Therefore, if the road show is not a written communication, such a simultaneous communication (even if
it would otherwise be a graphic communication or other written communication) is also deemed not to be written. If the road show is written and not required to be filed, such a simultaneous communication is also not required to be filed. Otherwise, a written communication that is an offer contained in a separate file from a road show, whether or not the road show is a written communication, or otherwise transmitted separately from a road show, will be a free writing prospectus subject to any applicable filing conditions of paragraph (d) of this section.
(e)
Treatment of information on, or hyperlinked from, an issuer's Web site.
(1) An offer of an issuer's securities that is contained on an issuer's Web site or hyperlinked by the issuer from the issuer's Web site to a third party's Web site is a written offer of such securities by the issuer and, unless otherwise exempt or excluded from the requirements of section 5(b)(1) of the Act, the filing conditions of paragraph (d) of this section apply to such offer.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, historical issuer information that is identified as such and located in a separate section of the issuer's Web site containing historical issuer information, that has not been incorporated by reference into or otherwise included in a prospectus of the issuer for the offering and that has not otherwise been used or referred to in connection with the offering, will not be considered a current offer of the issuer's securities and therefore will not be a free writing prospectus.
(f)
Free writing prospectuses published or distributed by media.
Any written offer for which an issuer or any other offering participant or any person acting on its behalf provided, authorized, or approved information that is prepared and published or disseminated by a person unaffiliated with the issuer or any other offering participant that is in the business of publishing, radio or television broadcasting or otherwise disseminating written communications would be considered at the time of publication or dissemination to be a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of the issuer or such other offering participant for purposes of this section subject to the following:
(1) The conditions of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section will not apply and the conditions of paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) of this section will be deemed to be satisfied if:
(i) No payment is made or consideration given by or on behalf of the issuer or other offering participant for the written communication or its dissemination; and
(ii) The issuer or other offering participant in question files the written communication with the Commission, and includes in the filing the legend required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, within four business days after the issuer or other offering participant becomes aware of the publication, radio or television broadcast, or other dissemination of the written communication.
(2) The filing obligation under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section shall be subject to the following:
(i) The issuer or other offering participant shall not be required to file a free writing prospectus if the substance of that free writing prospectus has previously been filed with the Commission;
(ii) Any filing made pursuant to paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section may include information that the issuer or offering participant in question reasonably believes is necessary or appropriate to correct information included in the communication; and
(iii) In lieu of filing the actual written communication as published or disseminated as required by paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the issuer or offering participant in question may file a copy of the materials provided to the media, including transcripts of interviews or similar materials, provided the copy or transcripts contain all the information provided to the media.
(3) For purposes of this paragraph (f) of this section, an issuer that is in the business of publishing or radio or television broadcasting may rely on this paragraph (f) as to any publication or radio or television broadcast that is a free writing prospectus in respect of an offering of securities of the issuer if the issuer or an affiliate:
(i) Is the publisher of a
bona fide
newspaper, magazine, or business or financial publication of general and regular circulation or
bona fide
broadcaster of news including business and financial news;
(ii) Has established policies and procedures for the independence of the content of the publications or broadcasts from the offering activities of the issuer; and
(iii) Publishes or broadcasts the communication in the ordinary course.
(g)
Record retention.
Issuers and offering participants shall retain all free writing prospectuses they have used, and that have not been filed pursuant to paragraph (d) or (f) of this section, for 3 years following the initial
bona fide
offering of the securities in question.

# Note to paragraph (
g

# ) of § 230.433.
To the extent that the record retention requirements of Rule 17a-4 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.17a-4 of this chapter) apply to free writing prospectuses required to be retained by a broker-dealer under this section, such free writing prospectuses are required to be retained in accordance with such requirements.
(h)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) An
issuer free writing prospectus
means a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of the issuer or used or referred to by the issuer and, in the case of an asset-backed issuer, prepared by or on behalf of a depositor, sponsor, or servicer (as defined in Item 1101 of Regulation AB) or affiliated depositor or used or referred to by any such person.
(2)
Issuer information
means material information about the issuer or its securities that has been provided by or on behalf of the issuer.
(3) A written communication or information is prepared or provided by or on behalf of a person if the person or an agent or representative of the person authorizes the communication or information or approves the communication or information before it is used. An offering participant other than the issuer shall not be an agent or representative of the issuer solely by virtue of its acting as an offering participant.
(4) A
road show
means an offer (other than a statutory prospectus or a portion of a statutory prospectus filed as part of a registration statement) that contains a presentation regarding an offering by one or more members of the issuer's management (and in the case of an offering of asset-backed securities, management involved in the securitization or servicing function of one or more of the depositors, sponsors, or servicers (as such terms are defined in Item 1101 of Regulation AB) or an affiliated depositor) and includes discussion of one or more of the issuer, such management, and the securities being offered; and
(5) A
bona fide electronic road show
means a road show that is a written communication transmitted by graphic means that contains a presentation by one or more officers of an issuer or other persons in an issuer's management (and in the case of an offering of asset-backed securities, management involved in the securitization or servicing function of one or more of the depositors, sponsors, or servicers (as such terms are defined in Item 1101 of Regulation AB) or an affiliated depositor) and, if more than one road show that is a written communication is being used, includes discussion of the same general areas of information regarding the issuer, such management, and the securities being offered as such other issuer road show or shows for the same offering that are written communications.

# Note to § 230.433.
This section does not affect the operation of the provisions of clause (a) of section 2(a)(10) of the Act providing an exception from the definition of “prospectus.”
[70 FR 44815, Aug. 3, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 7413, Feb. 13, 2006; 79 FR 57331, Sept. 24, 2014; 85 FR 33355, June 1, 2020; 87 FR 72846, Nov. 25, 2022; 89 FR 60083, July 24, 2024]

# written consents
§ 230.436
Consents required in special cases.
(a) If any portion of the report or opinion of an expert or counsel is quoted or summarized as such in the registration statement or in a prospectus, the written consent of the expert or counsel shall be filed as an exhibit to the registration statement and shall expressly state that the expert or counsel consents to such quotation or summarization.
(b) If it is stated that any information contained in the registration statement has been reviewed or passed
upon by any persons and that such information is set forth in the registration statement upon the authority of or in reliance upon such persons as experts, the written consents of such persons shall be filed as exhibits to the registration statement.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, a report on unaudited interim financial information (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section) by an independent accountant who has conducted a review of such interim financial information shall not be considered a part of a registration statement prepared or certified by an accountant or a report prepared or certified by an accountant within the meaning of sections 7 and 11 of the Act.
(d) The term
report on unaudited interim financial information
shall mean a report which consists of the following:
(1) A statement that the review of interim financial information was made in accordance with established professional standards for such reviews;
(2) An identification of the interim financial information reviewed;
(3) A description of the procedures for a review of interim financial information;
(4) A statement that a review of interim financial information is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”), the objective of which is an expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole, and, accordingly, no such opinion is expressed; and
(5) A statement about whether the accountant is aware of any material modifications that should be made to the accompanying financial information so that it conforms with generally accepted accounting principles.
(e) Where a counsel is named as having acted for the underwriters or selling security holders, no consent will be required by reason of his being named as having acted in such capacity.
(f) Where the opinion of one counsel relies upon the opinion of another counsel, the consent of the counsel whose prepared opinion is relied upon need not be furnished.
(g)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the security rating assigned to a class of debt securities, a class of convertible debt securities, or a class of preferred stock by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or with respect to registration statements on Form F-9 (§ 239.39 of this chapter) by any other rating organization specified in the Instruction to paragraph (a)(2) of General Instruction I of Form F-9, shall not be considered a part of the registration statement prepared or certified by a person within the meaning of sections 7 and 11 of the Act.
(2) For the purpose of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the term
nationally recognized statistical rating organization
shall have the same meaning as used in Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) (17 CFR 240.15c3-1 (c)(2)(vi)(F)).
(h) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, any description about matters identified by a qualified person pursuant to § 229.1302(f) of this chapter shall not be considered a part of the registration statement prepared or certified by the qualified person within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the Securities Act.
[47 FR 11441, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 62030, Nov. 23, 1993; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 83 FR 50212, Oct. 4, 2018; 83 FR 66461, Dec. 26, 2018]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 21914, Mar. 28, 2024, § 230.406 was amended, effective May 28, 2024. At 89 FR 25804, Apr. 12, 2024, the effective date was delayed indefinitely.
§ 230.437
Application to dispense with consent.
An application to the Commission to dispense with any written consent of an expert pursuant to section 7 of the act shall be made by the registrant and shall be supported by an affidavit or affidavits establishing that the obtaining of such consent is impracticable or involves undue hardship on the registrant. Such application shall be filed and the consent of the Commission shall be obtained prior to the effective date of the registration statement.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4074, June 24, 1947]
§ 230.437a
Written consents.
(a) This section applies only to registrants that:
(1) Are not a “blank check company” as defined in § 230.419(a)(2); and
(2) Are filing a registration statement containing financial statements in which Arthur Andersen LLP (or a foreign affiliate of Arthur Andersen LLP) had been acting as the independent public accountant.
(b) Notwithstanding any other Commission rule or regulation, every registrant eligible to rely on this section may dispense with the requirement for the registrant to file the written consent of Arthur Andersen LLP (or a foreign affiliate of Arthur Andersen LLP) as required by Section 7 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77g) where:
(1) The registrant has not already obtained the written consent that would be required if not for this section;
(2) The registrant is not able to obtain the written consent after reasonable efforts; and
(3) The registrant discloses clearly any limitations on recovery by investors posed by the lack of consent.
[67 FR 13537, Mar. 22, 2002]
§ 230.438
Consents of persons about to become directors.
If any person who has not signed the registration statement is named therein as about to become a director, the written consent of such person shall be filed with the registration statement. Any such consent, however, may be omitted if there is filed with the registration statement a statement by the registrant, supported by an affidavit or affidavits, setting forth the reasons for such omission and establishing that the obtaining of such consent is impracticable or involves undue hardship on the registrant.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4074, June 24, 1947]
§ 230.439
Consent to use of material incorporated by reference.
(a) If the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission require the filing of a written consent to the use of any material in connection with the registration statement, such consent shall be filed as an exhibit to the registration statement even though the material is incorporated therein by reference. Where the filing of a written consent is required with respect to material incorporated in the registration statement by reference, which is to be filed subsequent to the effective date of the registration statement, such consent shall be filed as an amendment to the registration statement no later than the date on which such material is filed with the Commission, unless express consent to incorporation by reference is contained in the material to be incorporated by reference.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, any required consent may be incorporated by reference into a registration statement filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) (§ 230.462(b)) or a post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Rule 462(e) (§ 230.462(e)) from a previously filed registration statement relating to that offering, provided that the consent contained in the previously filed registration statement expressly provides for such incorporation.
[47 FR 11441, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 60 FR 26615, 26617, May 17, 1995; 70 FR 44818, Aug. 3, 2005]
§§ 230.445-230.447
[Reserved]

# filings; fees; effective date
§ 230.455
Place of filing.
All registration statements and other papers filed with the Commission shall be filed at its principal office. Such material may be filed by delivery to the Commission; provided, however, that only registration statements and post-effective amendments thereto filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) (§ 230.462(b)) and Rule 110(d) (§ 230.110(d)) may be filed by means of facsimile transmission.
[73 FR 969, Jan. 4, 2008]
§ 230.456
Date of filing; timing of fee payment.
(a) The date on which any papers are actually received by the Commission shall be the date of filing thereof, if all the requirements of the act and the rules with respect to such filing have been complied with and the required fee paid. The failure to pay an insignificant amount of the required fee at the time of filing, as the result of a bona fide error, shall not be deemed to affect the date of filing.
(b)(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a well-known seasoned issuer that registers securities offerings on an automatic shelf registration statement, or registers additional securities or classes of securities thereon pursuant to Rule 413(b) (§ 230.413(b)), may, but is not required to, defer payment of all or any part of the registration fee to the Commission required by section 6(b)(2) of the Act on the following conditions:
(i) If the issuer elects to defer payment of the registration fee, it shall pay the registration fees (pay-as-you-go registration fees) calculated in accordance with Rule 457(r) (§ 230.457(r)) in advance of or in connection with an offering of securities from the registration statement within the time required to file the prospectus supplement pursuant to Rule 424(b) (§ 230.424(b)) for the offering,
provided, however
, that if the issuer fails, after a good faith effort to pay the filing fee within the time required by this section, the issuer may still be considered to have paid the fee in a timely manner if it is paid within four business days of its original due date; and
(ii) The issuer reflects the amount of the pay-as-you-go registration fee paid or to be paid in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section by updating the “Calculation of Filing Fee Tables” to indicate the class and aggregate offering price of securities offered and the amount of registration fee paid or to be paid in connection with the offering or offerings either in a post-effective amendment filed at the time of the fee payment or in the manner specified by § 230.424(g) (Rule 424(g)) in a prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b).
(2) A registration statement filed relying on the pay-as-you-go registration fee payment provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be considered filed as to the securities or classes of securities identified in the registration statement for purposes of this section and section 5 of the Act when it is received by the Commission, if it complies with all other requirements of the Act and the rules with respect to it.
(3) The securities sold pursuant to a registration statement will be considered registered, for purposes of section 6(a) of the Act, if the pay-as-you-go registration fee has been paid and the post-effective amendment or prospectus including the amended “Calculation of Registration Fee” table is filed pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, an asset-backed issuer that registers asset-backed securities offerings on Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter), may, but is not required to, defer payment of all or any part of the registration fee to the Commission required by section 6(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77f(b)(1)) on the following conditions:
(i) If the issuer elects to defer payment of the registration fee, it shall pay the registration fees (pay-as-you-go registration fees) calculated in accordance with § 230.457(s) in advance of or in connection with an offering of securities from the registration statement at the time of filing the prospectus pursuant to § 230.424(h) for the offering; and
(ii) The issuer reflects the amount of the pay-as-you-go registration fee paid or to be paid in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section by updating the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table to indicate the class and aggregate offering price of securities offered and the amount of registration fee paid or to be paid in connection with the offering or offerings in the manner specified by Rule 424(g) in a prospectus filed pursuant to § 230.424(h) (Rule 424(h)).
(2) A registration statement filed relying on the pay-as-you-go registration fee payment provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be considered filed as to the securities or classes of securities identified in the registration statement for purposes of this section and section 5 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e) when it is received by the Commission, if it complies with all other requirements of the Act and the rules with respect to it.
(3) The securities sold pursuant to a registration statement will be considered registered, for purpose of section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77f(a)), if the pay-as-you-go registration fee has been paid and the prospectus including the amended “Calculation of Registration
Fee” table is filed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, where a registration statement relates to an offering of exchange-traded vehicle securities, an issuer may elect to register an offering of an indeterminate amount of such securities if it meets the following conditions:
(i) The issuer must state in the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table that it is offering an indeterminate amount of such securities; and
(ii) The issuer must, not later than 90 days after the end of any fiscal year during which it has publicly offered such securities, pay a registration fee to the Commission calculated in accordance with § 230.457(u) (Rule 457(u)) and file a prospectus in accordance with § 230.424(i) (Rule 424(i)).
Instruction 1 to paragraph (d)(1)(ii):
To determine the date on which the registration fee must be paid, the first day of the 90-day period is the first calendar day of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the registration fee is to be paid. If the last day of the 90-day period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the registration fee is due on the first business day thereafter.
(2) If a registrant elects to register an offering of an indeterminate amount of exchange-traded vehicle securities pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the securities sold will be considered registered, for purposes of section 6(a) of the Act, if the registration fee has been paid and a prospectus is filed pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) not later than the end of the 90-day period.
(3) A registration statement filed relying on the registration fee payment provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be considered filed as to the securities identified in the registration statement for purposes of this section and section 5 of the Act when it is received by the Commission, if it complies with all other requirements under the Act, including this part.
(4) For purposes of this section, if an issuer ceases operations, the date the issuer ceases operations will be deemed to be the end of its fiscal year. In the case of a liquidation, merger, or sale of all or substantially all of the assets (“merger”) of the issuer, the issuer will be deemed to have ceased operations for the purposes of this section on the date the merger is consummated; provided, however, that in the case of a merger of an issuer or a series of an issuer (“Predecessor Issuer”) with another issuer or a series of an issuer (“Successor Issuer”), the Predecessor Issuer will not be deemed to have ceased operations and the Successor Issuer will assume the obligations, fees, and redemption credits of the Predecessor Issuer incurred pursuant to this section if the Successor Issuer:
(i) Had no assets or liabilities, other than nominal assets or liabilities, and no operating history immediately prior to the merger;
(ii) Acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities and obligations of the Predecessor Issuer; and
(iii) The merger is not designed to result in the Predecessor Issuer merging with, or substantially all of its assets being acquired by, an issuer (or a series of an issuer) that would not meet the conditions of paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section.
(5) An issuer paying the fee required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section or any portion thereof more than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year of the issuer shall pay to the Commission interest on unpaid amounts, calculated based on the interest rate in effect at the time of the interest payment by reference to the “current value of funds rate” on the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service internet site at
http://www.fms.treas.gov,
or by calling (202) 874-6995, and using the following formula: I = (X) (Y) (Z/365), where: I = Amount of interest due; X = Amount of registration fee due; Y = Applicable interest rate, expressed as a fraction; Z = Number of days by which the registration fee payment is late. The payment of interest pursuant to this paragraph (d)(5) shall not preclude the Commission from bringing an action to enforce the requirements of this paragraph (d).
(6) An immaterial or unintentional failure to comply with a requirement of this paragraph (d) will not result in a violation of section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77f(a)), so long as:
(i) A good faith and reasonable effort was made to comply with the requirement; and
(ii) In the case of a late payment of a registration fee, the issuer pays the registration fee and any interest due thereon as soon as practicable after discovery of the failure to pay the registration fee.
(e)(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, where a registration statement relates to an offering of registered non-variable annuity securities, an issuer shall be deemed to register an offering of an indeterminate amount of such securities and shall, not later than 90 days after the end of any fiscal year during which it has publicly offered such securities, pay a registration fee to the Commission calculated in accordance with § 230.457(u) (Rule 457(u)) and file Form 24F-2 (referenced in 17 CFR 274.24) with the Commission.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (e)(1):
To determine the date on which the registration fee must be paid, the first day of the 90-day period is the first calendar day of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the registration fee is to be paid. If the last day of the 90-day period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the registration fee is due on the first business day thereafter.
(2) When registering an offering of an indeterminate amount of registered non-variable annuity securities pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the securities sold will be considered registered, for purposes of section 6(a) of the Act, if the registration fee has been paid and the issuer has filed a Form 24F-2 filing pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section not later than the end of the 90-day period.
(3) A registration statement filed in accordance with the registration fee payment provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section will be considered filed as to the securities identified in the registration statement for purposes of this section and section 5 of the Act when it is received by the Commission, if it complies with all other requirements under the Act, including this part.
(4) For purposes of this section, if an issuer ceases operations, the date the issuer ceases operations will be deemed to be the end of its fiscal year. In the case of a liquidation, merger, or sale of all or substantially all of the assets (“merger”) of the issuer, the issuer will be deemed to have ceased operations for the purposes of this section on the date the merger is consummated; provided, however, that in the case of a merger of an issuer or a series of an issuer (“Predecessor”) with another issuer or a series of an issuer (“Successor”), the Predecessor will not be deemed to have ceased operations and the Successor will assume the obligations, fees, and redemption credits of the Predecessor incurred pursuant to this section if the Successor:
(i) Had no assets or liabilities, other than nominal assets or liabilities, and no operating history immediately prior to the merger;
(ii) Acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed substantially all of the liabilities and obligations of the Predecessor; and
(iii) The merger is not designed to result in the Predecessor merging with, or substantially all of its assets being acquired by, an issuer (or a series of an issuer) that would not meet the conditions of paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section.
(5) An issuer paying the fee required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section or any portion thereof more than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year of the issuer shall pay to the Commission interest on unpaid amounts, calculated based on the interest rate in effect at the time of the interest payment by reference to the “current value of funds rate” on the Treasury Department's Bureau of Fiscal Service internet site at
https://fiscal.treasury.gov/,
or by calling (202) 874-6995, and using the following formula: I = (X) (Y) (Z/365), where: I = Amount of interest due; X = Amount of registration fee due; Y = Applicable interest rate, expressed as a fraction; Z = Number of days by which the registration fee payment is late. The payment of interest pursuant to this paragraph (e)(5) shall not preclude the Commission from bringing an action to enforce the requirements of this paragraph (e).
(6) An immaterial or unintentional failure to comply with a requirement of this paragraph (e) will not result in
a violation of section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77f(a)), so long as:
(i) A good faith and reasonable effort was made to comply with the requirement; and
(ii) In the case of a late payment of a registration fee, the issuer pays the registration fee and any interest due thereon as soon as practicable after discovery of the failure to pay the registration fee.
[16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951, as amended at 70 FR 44818, Aug. 3, 2005; 79 FR 57331, Sept. 24, 2014; 81 FR 40512, June 22, 2016; 85 FR 33355, June 1, 2020; 86 FR 70199, Dec. 9, 2021; 89 FR 60083, July 24, 2024]
§ 230.457
Computation of fee.
(a) If a filing fee based on a bona fide estimate of the maximum offering price, computed in accordance with this rule where applicable, has been paid, no additional filing fee shall be required as a result of changes in the proposed offering price. If the number of shares or other units of securities, or the principal amount of debt securities to be offered is increased by an amendment filed prior to the effective date of the registration statement, an additional filing fee, computed on the basis of the offering price of the additional securities, shall be paid. There will be no refund once the statement is filed.
(b) A required fee shall be reduced in an amount equal to any fee paid with respect to such transaction pursuant to sections 13(e) and 14(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any applicable provision of this section; the fee requirements under sections 13(e) and 14(g) shall be reduced in an amount equal to the fee paid the Commission with respect to a transaction under this section. No part of a filing fee is refundable.
(c) Where securities are to be offered at prices computed upon the basis of fluctuating market prices, the registration fee is to be calculated upon the basis of the price of securities of the same class, as follows: either the average of the high and low prices reported in the consolidated reporting system (for exchange traded securities and last sale reported over-the-counter securities) or the average of the bid and asked price (for other over-the-counter securities) as of a specified date within 5 business days prior to the date of filing the registration statement.
(d) Where securities are to be offered at varying prices based upon fluctuating values of underlying assets, the registration fee is to be calculated upon the basis of the market value of such assets as of a specified date within fifteen days prior to the date of filing, in accordance with the method to be used in calculating the daily offering price.
(e) Where securities are to be offered to existing security holders and the portion, if any, not taken by such security holders is to be reoffered to the general public, the registration fee is to be calculated upon the basis of the proposed offering price to such security holders or the proposed reoffering price to the general public, whichever is higher.
(f) Where securities are to be offered in exchange for other securities (except where such exchange results from the exercise of a conversion privilege) or in a reclassification or recapitalization which involves the substitution of a security for another security, a merger, a consolidation, or a similar plan of acquisition, the registration fee is to be calculated as follows:
(1) Upon the basis of the market value of the securities to be received by the registrant or canceled in the exchange or transaction as established by the price of securities of the same class, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If there is no market for the securities to be received by the registrant or cancelled in the exchange or transaction, the book value of such securities computed as of the latest practicable date prior to the date of filing the registration statement shall be used, unless the issuer of such securities is in bankruptcy or receivership, or has an accumulated capital deficit, in which case one-third of the principal amount, par value or stated value of such securities shall be used.
(3) If any cash is to be received by the registrant in connection with the exchange or transaction, the amount thereof shall be added to the value of
the securities to be received by the registrant or cancelled as computed in accordance with (e) (1) or (2) of this section. If any cash is to be paid by the registrant in connection with the exchange or transaction, the amount thereof shall be deducted from the value of the securities to be received by the registrant in exchange as computed in accordance with (e) (1) or (2) of this section.
(4) Securities to be offered directly or indirectly for certificates of deposit shall be deemed to be offered for the securities represented by the certificates of deposit.
(5) If a filing fee is paid under this paragraph for the registration of an offering and the registration statement also covers the resale of such securities, no additional filing fee is required to be paid for the resale transaction.
(g) Where securities are to be offered pursuant to warrants or other rights to purchase such securities and the holders of such warrants or rights may be deemed to be underwriters, as defined in section 2(11) of the Act, with respect to the warrants or rights or the securities subject thereto, the registration fee is to be calculated upon the basis of the price at which the warrants or rights or securities subject thereto are to be offered to the public. If such offering price cannot be determined at the time of filing the registration statement, the registration fee is to be calculated upon the basis of the highest of the following: (1) the price at which the warrants or rights may be exercised, if known at the time of filing the registration statement; (2) the offering price of securities of the same class included in the registration statement; or (3) the price of securities of the same class, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If the fee is to be calculated upon the basis of the price at which the warrants or rights may be exercised and they are exercisable over a period of time at progressively higher prices, the fee shall be calculated on the basis of the highest price at which they may be exercised. If the warrants or rights are to be registered for distribution in the same registration statement as the securities to be offered pursuant thereto, no separate registration fee shall be required.
(h)(1) Where securities are to be offered pursuant to an employee benefit plan, the aggregate offering price and the amount of the registration fee shall be computed with respect to the maximum number of the registrant's securities issuable under the plan that are covered by the registration statement. If the offering price is not known, the fee shall be computed upon the basis of the price of securities of the same class, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. In the case of an employee stock option plan, the aggregate offering price and the fee shall be computed upon the basis of the price at which the options may be exercised, or, if such price is not known, upon the basis of the price of securities of the same class, as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If there is no market for the securities to be offered, the book value of such securities computed as of the latest practicable date prior to the date of filing the registration statement shall be used.
(2) If the registration statement registers securities of the registrant and also registers interests in the plan constituting separate securities, no separate fee is required with respect to the plan interests.
(3) Where a registration statement includes securities to be offered pursuant to an employee benefit plan and covers the resale of the same securities, no additional filing fee shall be paid with respect to the securities to be offered for resale. A filing fee determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section shall be paid with respect to any additional securities to be offered for resale.
(i) Where convertible securities and the securities into which conversion is offered are registered at the same time, the registration fee is to be calculated on the basis of the proposed offering price of the convertible securities alone, except that if any additional consideration is to be received in connection with the exercise of the conversion privilege the maximum amount which may be received shall be added to the proposed offering price of the convertible securities.
(j) Where securities are sold prior to the registration thereof and are subsequently registered for the purpose of making an offer of rescission of such sale or sales, the registration fee is to be calculated on the basis of the amount at which such securities were sold, except that where securities repurchased pursuant to such offer of rescission are to be reoffered to the general public at a price in excess of such amount the registration fee is to be calculated on the basis of the proposed reoffering price.
(k) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this rule, the proposed maximum aggregate offering price of Depositary Shares evidenced by American Depositary Receipts shall, only for the purpose of calculating the registration fee, be computed upon the basis of the maximum aggregate fees or charges to be imposed in connection with the issuance of such receipts.
(l) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this rule, the proposed maximum aggregate offering price of any put or call option which is traded on an exchange and registered by such exchange or a facility thereof or which is traded over the counter shall, for the purpose of calculating the registration fee, be computed upon the basis of the maximum aggregate fees or charges to be imposed by such registrant in connection with the issuance of such option.
(m) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this rule, where the securities to be registered include (1) any note, draft, bill of exchange, or bankers' acceptance which meets all the conditions of section 3(a)(3) hereof, and (2) any note, draft, bill of exchange or bankers' acceptance which has a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding nine months exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity date of which is likewise limited, but which otherwise does not meet the conditions of section 3(a)(3), the registration fee shall be calculated by taking one-fiftieth of 1 per centum of the maximum principal amount of only those securities not meeting the conditions of section 3(a)(3).
(n) Where the securities to be offered are guarantees of other securities which are being registered concurrently, no separate fee for the guarantees shall be payable.
(o) Where an issuer registers an offering of securities, the registration fee may be calculated on the basis of the maximum aggregate offering price of all the securities listed in the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table. The number of shares or units of securities need not be included in the “Calculation of Registration Fee” Table. If the maximum aggregate offering price increases prior to the effective date of the registration statement, a pre-effective amendment must be filed to increase the maximum dollar value being registered and the additional filing fee shall be paid.
(p) Where all or a portion of the securities offered under a registration statement remain unsold after the offering's completion or termination, or withdrawal of the registration statement, the aggregate total dollar amount of the filing fee associated with those unsold securities (whether computed under paragraph (a) or (o) of this section) may be offset against the total filing fee due for a subsequent registration statement or registration statements. The subsequent registration statement(s) must be filed within five years of the initial filing date of the earlier registration statement, and must be filed by the same registrant (including a successor within the meaning of § 230.405), a majority-owned subsidiary of that registrant, or a parent that owns more than 50 percent of the registrant's outstanding voting securities. A note should be added to the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table in the subsequent registration statement(s) providing the following information unless expressly required in another part of the registration statement:
(1) The dollar amount of the previously paid filing fee to be offset against the currently due filing fee;
(2) The amount of unsold securities or unsold aggregate offering amount from the prior registration statement associated with the claimed offset;
(3) The file number of, and the name of the registrant that filed, the earlier registration statement from which the filing fee is offset;
(4) The initial filing date of the earlier registration statement; and
(5) A statement that the registrant has:
(i) Withdrawn the prior registration statement; or
(ii) Terminated or completed any offering that included the unsold securities associated with the claimed offset under the prior registration statement.
(q) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, no filing fee is required for the registration of an indeterminate amount of securities to be offered solely for market-making purposes by an affiliate of the registrant.
(r) Where securities are to be offered pursuant to an automatic shelf registration statement, the registration fee is to be calculated in accordance with this section. When the issuer elects to defer payment of the fees pursuant to Rule 456(b) (§ 230.456(b)), the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table in the registration statement must indicate that the issuer is relying on Rule 456(b) but does not need to include the number of shares or units of securities or the maximum aggregate offering price of any securities until the issuer updates the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table to reflect payment of the registration fee, including a pay-as-you-go registration fee in accordance with Rule 456(b). The registration fee shall be calculated based on the fee payment rate in effect on the date of the fee payment.
(s) Where securities are asset-backed securities being offered pursuant to a registration statement on Form SF-3 (§ 239.45 of this chapter), the registration fee is to be calculated in accordance with this section. When the issuer elects to defer payment of the fees pursuant to § 230.456(c), the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table in the registration statement must indicate that the issuer is relying on § 230.456(c) but does not need to include the number of units of securities or the maximum aggregate offering price of any securities until the issuer updates the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table to reflect payment of the registration fee, including a pay-as-you-go registration fee in accordance with § 230.456(c). The registration fee shall be calculated based on the fee payment rate in effect on the date of the fee payment.
(t) Where the security to be offered is a collateral certificate or is a special unit of beneficial interest, underlying asset-backed securities (as defined in § 229.1101(c) of this chapter) which are being registered concurrently, no separate fee for the certificate or the special unit of beneficial interest shall be payable.
(u) Where an issuer elects or is required to register an offering of an indeterminate amount of exchange-traded vehicle securities in accordance with § 230.456(d) (Rule 456(d)) or registered non-variable annuity securities in accordance with § 230.456(e) (Rule 456(e)), the registration fee is to be calculated in the following manner:
(1) Determine the aggregate sale price of such securities sold during the fiscal year.
(2) Determine the sum of:
(i) The aggregate redemption or repurchase price of such securities redeemed or repurchased during the fiscal year; and
(ii) The aggregate redemption or repurchase price of such securities redeemed or repurchased during a prior fiscal year that were not used previously to reduce registration fees payable to the Commission, if the prior fiscal year ended no earlier than August 1, 2021 in the case of exchange traded vehicle securities, or September 23, 2024 in the case of registered non-variable annuity securities.
(3) Subtract the amount in paragraph (u)(2) of this section from the amount in paragraph (u)(1) of this section. If the resulting amount is positive, the amount is the net sales amount. If the resulting amount is negative, it is the amount of redemption credits available for use in future years to offset sales.
(4) The registration fee is calculated by multiplying the net sales amount by the fee payment rate in effect on the date of the fee payment. If the issuer determines that it had net redemptions
or repurchases for the fiscal year, no registration fee is due.
[47 FR 11442, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 12347, Mar. 24, 1983; 51 FR 2475, Jan. 17, 1986; 55 FR 23924, June 13, 1990; 57 FR 48976, Oct. 29, 1992; 59 FR 21650, Apr. 26, 1994; 60 FR 26617, May 17, 1995; 66 FR 8896, Feb. 5, 2001; 70 FR 44818, Aug. 3, 2005; 79 FR 57331, Sept. 24, 2014; 86 FR 33356, June 1, 2020; 87 FR 70199, Dec. 9, 2021; 89 FR 60084, July 24, 2024]
§ 230.459
Calculation of effective date.
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be counted in computing the effective date of registration statements under section 8(a) of the act. In the case of statements which become effective on the twentieth day after filing, the twentieth day shall be deemed to begin at the expiration of nineteen periods of 24 hours each from 5:30 p.m. eastern standard time or eastern daylight-saving time, whichever is in effect at the principal office of the Commission on the date of filing.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4075, June 24, 1947]
§ 230.460
Distribution of preliminary prospectus.
(a) Pursuant to the statutory requirement that the Commission in ruling upon requests for acceleration of the effective date of a registration statement shall have due regard to the adequacy of the information respecting the issuer theretofore available to the public, the Commission may consider whether the persons making the offering have taken reasonable steps to make the information contained in the registration statement conveniently available to underwriters and dealers who it is reasonably anticipated will be invited to participate in the distribution of the security to be offered or sold.
(b)(1) As a minimum, reasonable steps to make the information conveniently available would involve the distribution, to each underwriter and dealer who it is reasonably anticipated will be invited to participate in the distribution of the security, a reasonable time in advance of the anticipated effective date of the registration statement, of as many copies of the proposed form of preliminary prospectus permitted by Rule 430 (§ 230.430) as appears to be reasonable to secure adequate distribution of the preliminary prospectus.
(2) In the case of a registration statement filed by a closed-end investment company on Form N-2 (§ 239.14 and § 274.11a-1 of this chapter), reasonable steps to make information conveniently available would involve distribution of a sufficient number of copies of the Statement of Additional Information required by § 230.430(b) as it appears to be reasonable to secure their adequate distribution either to each underwriter or dealer who it is reasonably anticipated will be invited to participate in the distribution of the security, or to the underwriter, dealer or other source named on the cover page of the preliminary prospectus as being the person investors should contact in order to obtain the Statement of Additional Information.
(c) The granting of acceleration will not be conditioned upon
(1) The distribution of a preliminary prospectus in any state where such distribution would be illegal; or
(2) The distribution of a preliminary prospectus (i) in the case of a registration statement relating solely to securities to be offered at competitive bidding, provided the undertaking in Item 512(d)(1) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512(d)(2) of this chapter) is included in the registration statement and distribution of prospectuses pursuant to such undertaking is made prior to the publication or distribution of the invitation for bids, or
(ii) In the case of a registration statement relating to a security issued by a face-amount certificate company or a redeemable security issued by an open-end management company or unit investment trust if any other security of the same class is currently being offered or sold, pursuant to an effective registration statement by the issuer or by or through an underwriter, or
(iii) In the case of an offering of subscription rights unless it is contemplated that the distribution will be made through dealers and the underwriters intend to make the offering during the stockholders' subscription period, in which case copies of the preliminary prospectus must be distributed to dealers prior to the effective date of the registration statement in
the same fashion as is required in the case of other offerings through underwriters, or
(iv) In the case of a registration statement pertaining to a security to be offered pursuant to an exchange offer or transaction described in Rule 145 (§ 230.145).
[47 FR 11443, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 57 FR 56834, Dec. 1, 1992; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 230.461
Acceleration of effective date.
(a) Requests for acceleration of the effective date of a registration statement shall be made by the registrant and the managing underwriters of the proposed issue, or, if there are no managing underwriters, by the principal underwriters of the proposed issue, and shall state the date upon which it is desired that the registration statement shall become effective. Such requests may be made in writing or orally, provided that, if an oral request is to be made, a letter indicating that fact and stating that the registrant and the managing or principal underwriters are aware of their obligations under the Act must accompany the registration statement for a pre-effective amendment thereto) at the time of filing with the Commission. Written requests may be sent to the Commission by facsimile transmission. If, by reason of the expected arrangement in connection with the offering, it is to be requested that the registration statement shall become effective at a particular hour of the day, the Commission must be advised to that effect not later than the second business day before the day which it is desired that the registration statement shall become effective. A person's request for acceleration will be considered confirmation of such person's awareness of the person's obligations under the Act. Not later than the time of filing the last amendment prior to the effective date of the registration statement, the registrant shall inform the Commission as to whether or not the amount of compensation to be allowed or paid to the underwriters and any other arrangements among the registrant, the underwriters and other broker dealers participating in the distribution, as described in the registration statement, have been reviewed to the extent required by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and such Association has issued a statement expressing no objections to the compensation and other arrangements.
(b) Having due regard to the adequacy of information respecting the registrant theretofore available to the public, to the facility with which the nature of the securities to be registered, their relationship to the capital structure of the registrant issuer and the rights of holders thereof can be understood, and to the public interest and the protection of investors, as provided in section 8(a) of the Act, it is the general policy of the Commission, upon request, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, to permit acceleration of the effective date of the registration statement as soon as possible after the filing of appropriate amendments, if any. In determining the date on which a registration statement shall become effective, the following are included in the situations in which the Commission considers that the statutory standards of section 8(a) may not be met and may refuse to accelerate the effective date:
(1) Where there has not been a bona fide effort to make the prospectus reasonably concise, readable, and in compliance with the plain English requirements of Rule 421(d) of Regulation C (17 CFR 230.421(d)) in order to facilitate an understanding of the information in the prospectus.
(2) Where the form of preliminary prospectus, which has been distributed by the issuer or underwriter, is found to be inaccurate or inadequate in any material respect, until the Commission has received satisfactory assurance that appropriate correcting material has been sent to all underwriters and dealers who received such preliminary prospectus or prospectuses in quantity sufficient for their information and the information of others to whom the inaccurate or inadequate material was sent.
(3) Where the Commission is currently making an investigation of the issuer, a person controlling the issuer, or one of the underwriters, if any, of the securities to be offered, pursuant to
any of the Acts administered by the Commission.
(4) Where one or more of the underwriters, although firmly committed to purchase securities covered by the registration statement, is subject to and does not meet the financial responsibility requirements of Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (§ 240.15c3-1 of this chapter). For the purposes of this paragraph underwriters will be deemed to be firmly committed even though the obligation to purchase is subject to the usual conditions as to receipt of opinions of counsel, accountants, etc., the accuracy of warranties or representations, the happening of calamities or the occurrence of other events the determination of which is not expressed to be in the sole or absolute discretion of the underwriters.
(5) Where there have been transactions in securities of the registrant by persons connected with or proposed to be connected with the offering which may have artificially affected or may artificially affect the market price of the security being offered.
(6) Where the amount of compensation to be allowed or paid to the underwriters and any other arrangements among the registrant, the underwriters and other broker dealers participating in the distribution, as described in the registration statement, if required to be reviewed by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD), have been reviewed by the NASD and the NASD has not issued a statement expressing no objections to the compensation and other arrangements.
(7) Where, in the case of a significant secondary offering at the market, the registrant, selling security holders and underwriters have not taken sufficient measures to insure compliance with Regulation M (§§ 242.100 through 242.105 of this chapter.
(c) Insurance against liabilities arising under the Act, whether the cost of insurance is borne by the registrant, the insured or some other person, will not be considered a bar to acceleration, unless the registrant is a registered investment company or a business development company and the cost of such insurance is borne by other than an insured officer or director of the registrant. In the case of such a registrant, the Commission may refuse to accelerate the effective date of the registration statement when the registrant is organized or administered pursuant to any instrument (including a contract for insurance against liabilities arising under the Act) that protects or purports to protect any director or officer of the company against any liability to the company or its security holders to which he or she would otherwise be subject by reason of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of his or her office.
[47 FR 11444, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 18146, Apr. 8, 1993; 60 FR 26615, 26617, May 17, 1995; 62 FR 543, Jan. 3, 1997; 63 FR 6385, Feb. 6, 1998]
§ 230.462
Immediate effectiveness of certain registration statements and post-effective amendments.
(a) A registration statement on Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter) and a registration statement on Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter) or on Form F-3 (§ 239.33 of this chapter) for a dividend or interest reinvestment plan shall become effective upon filing with the Commission.
(b) A registration statement and any post-effective amendment thereto shall become effective upon filing with the Commission if:
(1) The registration statement is for registering additional securities of the same class(es) as were included in an earlier registration statement for the same offering and declared effective by the Commission;
(2) The new registration statement is filed prior to the time confirmations are sent or given; and
(3) The new registration statement registers additional securities in an amount and at a price that together represent no more than 20% of the maximum aggregate offering price set forth for each class of securities in the “Calculation of Registration Fee” table contained in such earlier registration statement.
(c) If the prospectus contained in a post-effective amendment filed prior to the time confirmations are sent or given contains no substantive changes
from or additions to the prospectus previously filed as part of the effective registration statement, other than price-related information omitted from the registration statement in reliance on Rule 430A of the Act (§ 230.430A), such post-effective amendment shall become effective upon filing with the Commission.
(d) A post-effective amendment filed solely to add exhibits to a registration statement shall become effective upon filing with the Commission.
(e) An automatic shelf registration statement, including an automatic shelf registration statement filed in accordance with Rule 415(a)(6) (§ 230.415(a)(6)), and any post-effective amendment thereto, including a post-effective amendment filed to register additional classes of securities pursuant to Rule 413(b) (§ 230.413(b)), shall become effective upon filing with the Commission.
(f) A post-effective amendment filed pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section for purposes of adding a new issuer and its securities as permitted by § 230.413(b) (Rule 413(b)) that satisfies the requirements of Form S-3, Form F-3, or General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2 (§ 239.13, § 239.33, or §§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), as applicable, including the signatures required by § 230.402(e) (Rule 402(e)), and contains a prospectus satisfying the requirements of § 230.430B (Rule 430B), shall become effective upon filing with the Commission.
[59 FR 21650, Apr. 26, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 26617, May 17, 1995; 62 FR 39763, July 24, 1997; 70 FR 44818, Aug. 3, 2005; 85 FR 33356, June 1, 2020]
§ 230.463
Report of offering of securities and use of proceeds therefrom.
(a) Except as provided in this section, following the effective date of the first registration statement filed under the Act by an issuer, the issuer or successor issuer shall report the use of proceeds pursuant to Item 701 of Regulation D-B or S-K or Item 14(e) of Form 20-F, as applicable, on its first periodic report filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) and 78o(d)) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 after effectiveness, and thereafter on each of its subsequent periodic reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 through the later of disclosure of the application of all the offering proceeds or disclosure of the termination of the offering.
(b) A successor issuer shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section only if a report of the use of proceeds is required with respect to the first effective registration statement of the predecessor issuer.
(c) For purposes of this section:
(1) The term
offering proceeds
shall not include any amount(s) received for the account(s) of any selling security holder(s).
(2) The term
application
shall not include the temporary investment of proceeds by the issuer pending final application.
(d) This section shall not apply to any effective registration statement for securities to be issued:
(1) In a business combination described in Rule 145(a) (§ 230.145(a));
(2) By an issuer which pursuant to a business combination described in Rule 145(a) has succeeded to another issuer that prior to such business combination had a registration statement become effective under the Act and on the date of such business combination was not subject to paragraph (a) of this section;
(3) Pursuant to an employee benefit plan;
(4) Pursuant to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan;
(5) As American depository receipts for foreign securities;
(6) By any investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and any issuer that has elected to be regulated as a business development company under sections 54 through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-53 through 80a-64);
(7) By any public utility company or public utility holding company required to file reports with any State or Federal authority.
(8) In a merger in which a vote or consent of the security holders of the company being acquired is not required pursuant to applicable state law; or
(9) In an exchange offer for the securities of the issuer or another entity.
[46 FR 48142, Oct. 1, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 19001, May 6, 1985; 57 FR 56834, Dec. 1, 1992; 62 FR 39763, July 24, 1997; 64 FR 53910, Oct. 5, 1999]
§ 230.464
Effective date of post-effective amendments to registration statements filed on Form S-8 and on certain Forms S-3, S-4, F-2 and F-3.
Provided.
That, at the time of filing of each post-effective amendment with the Commission, the issuer continues to meet the requirements of filing on Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter); or on Form S-3, F-2 or F-3 (§§ 239.13, 239.32 or 239.33 of this chapter) for a registration statement relating to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan; or in the case of a registration statement on Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) that there is continued compliance with General Instruction G of that Form:
(a) The post-effective amendment shall become effective upon filing with the Commission: and
(b) With respect to securities sold on or after the filing date pursuant to a prospectus which forms a part of a Form S-8 registration statement; or a Form S-3, F-2, or F-3 registration statement relating to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan; or a Form S-4 registration statement complying with General Instruction G of that Form and which has been amended to include or incorporate new full year financial statments or to comply with the provisions of section 10(a)(3) of the Act, the effective date of the registration statement shall be deemed to be the filing date of the post-effective amendment.
(Secs. 6, 7, 8, 10, 19(a), 48 Stat. 78, 79, 81, 85; secs. 205, 209, 48 Stat. 906, 908; sec. 301, 54 Stat. 857; sec. 8, 68 Stat. 685; sec. 1, 79 Stat. 1051; sec. 308(a)(2), 90 Stat. 57; secs. 12, 13, 15(d), 23(a), 48 Stat. 892, 894, 895, 901; secs. 1, 3, 8, 49 Stat. 1375, 1377, 1379; sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; sec. 202, 68 Stat. 686; secs. 3, 4, 6, 78 Stat. 565-568, 569, 570-574; secs. 1, 2, 82 Stat. 454; sec. 28(c), 84 Stat. 1435; secs. 1, 2, 84 Stat. 1497; sec. 105(b), 88 Stat. 1503; secs. 8, 9, 10, 18, 89 Stat. 117, 118, 119, 155; sec. 308(b), 90 Stat. 57; secs. 202, 203, 204, 91 Stat. 1494, 1498, 1499, 1500; secs. 8 30, 31(c), 38(a), 54 Stat. 803, 836, 838, 841; 74 Stat. 201; 84 Stat. 1415; 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 78
l,
78m, 78
o
(d), 78w(a), 80a-8, 80a-29, 80a-30(c), 80a-37(a))
[47 FR 54770, Dec. 6, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 19001, May 6, 1985; 61 FR 30402, June 14, 1996 ]
§ 230.466
Effective date of certain registration statements on Form F-6.
(a) A depositary that previously has filed a registration statement on Form F-6 (§ 239.36 of this chapter) may designate a date and time for a registration statement (including post-effective amendments) on Form F-6 to become effective and such registration statement shall become effective in accordance with such designation if the following conditions are met:
(1) The depositary previously has filed a registration statement on Form F-6 (§ 239.36 of this chapter), which the Commission has declared effective, with identical terms of deposit, except for the number of foreign securities a Depositary Share represents, and the depositary so certifies; and
(2) The designation of the effective date and time is set forth on the facing-page of the registration statement, or in any pre-effective amendment thereto. A pre-effective amendment containing such a designation properly made shall be deemed to have been filed with the consent of the Commission.
(b)(1) The Commission may, in the manner and under the circumstances set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, suspend the ability of a depositary to designate the date and time of effectiveness of a registration statement, and such suspension shall remain in effect until the Commission
furnishes written notice to the depositary that the suspension has been terminated. Any suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any registration statement that has been filed but has not, at the time of such suspension, become effective and to any registration statement the depositary files after such suspension. Any such suspension applies only to the ability to designate the date and time of effectiveness under paragraph (a) of this section and does not otherwise affect the registration statement.
(2) Any suspension under paragraph (b)(1) of this section becomes effective when the Commission furnishes written notice thereof to the depositary. The Commission may issue a suspension if it appears to the Commission:
(i) That any registration statement containing a designation under this section is incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, whether or not such registration has become effective, or
(ii) That the depositary has not complied with any of the conditions of this section. The depositary may petition the Commission to review the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for such a hearing is included in the petition.
(Secs. 6, 7, 8, 10, 19(a), 48 Stat. 78, 79, 81, 85; secs. 205, 209, 48 Stat. 906, 908; sec. 301, 54 Stat. 857; sec. 8, 68 Stat. 685; sec. 1, 79 Stat. 1051; sec. 308(a)(2), 90 Stat. 57; secs. 12, 13, 15(d), 23(a), 48 Stat. 892, 894, 895, 901; secs. 1, 3, 8, 49 Stat. 1375, 1377, 1379; sec. 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; sec. 202, 68 Stat. 686; secs. 3, 4, 6, 78 Stat. 565-568, 569, 570-574; secs. 1, 2, 82 Stat. 454; sec. 28(c), 84 Stat. 1435; secs. 1, 2, 84 Stat. 1497; sec. 105(b), 88 Stat. 1503; secs. 8, 9, 10, 18, 89 Stat. 117, 118, 119, 155; sec. 308(b), 90 Stat. 57; secs. 202, 203, 204, 91 Stat. 1494, 1498, 1499, 1500; 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 78
l,
78m, 78
o
(d), 78w(a))
[48 FR 12347, Mar. 24, 1983]
§ 230.467
Effectiveness of registration statements and post-effective amendments thereto made on Forms F-7, F-8, F-10 and F-80.
(a) A registration statement on Form F-7, Form F-8 or Form F-80 (§ 239.37, § 239.38 or § 239.41 of this chapter), and any amendment thereto, shall become effective upon filing with the Commission. A registration statement on Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter), and any amendment thereto, relating to an offering being made contemporaneously in the United States and Canada shall become effective upon filing with the Commission, unless designated as preliminary material on the Form.
(b) Where no contemporaneous offering is being made in Canada, a registrant filing on Form F-10 may designate on the facing page of the registration statement, or any amendment thereto, a date and time for such filing to become effective that is not earlier than seven calendar days after the date of filing with the Commission, and such registration statement or amendment shall become effective in accordance with such designation;
provided, however,
That such registration statement or amendment may become effective prior to seven calendar days after the date of filing with the Commission if the securities regulatory authority in the review jurisdiction issues a receipt or notification of clearance with respect thereto before such time elapses, in which case the registration statement or amendment shall become effective by order of the Commission as soon as practicable after receipt of written notification by the Commission from the registrant or the applicable Canadian securities regulatory authority of the issuance of such receipt or notification of clearance.
[56 FR 30054, July 1, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 46617, Aug. 3, 2011]

# amendments; withdrawals
§ 230.470
Formal requirements for amendments.
Except for telegraphic amendments filed pursuant to Rule 473 (§ 230.473), amendments to a registration statement shall be filed under cover of an appropriate facing sheet, shall be numbered consecutively in the order in which filed, and shall indicate on the facing sheet the applicable registration form on which the amendment is prepared and the file number of the registration statement.
[47 FR 11445, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 230.471
Signatures to amendments.
(a) Except as provided in Rule 447 (§ 230.447) and in Rule 478 (§ 230.478), every amendment to a registration statement shall be signed by the persons specified in section 6(a) of the Act. At least one copy of every amendment filed with the Commission shall be signed. Unsigned copies shall be conformed.
(b) Where the Act or the rules thereunder require a document filed with or furnished to the Commission to be signed, such document shall be manually signed, or signed using either typed signatures or duplicated or facsimile versions of manual signatures. Where typed, duplicated, or facsimile signatures are used, each signatory to the filing shall manually or electronically sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing (“authentication document”). Such authentication document shall be executed before or at the time the filing is made and shall be retained by the registrant for a period of five years. The requirements set forth in § 232.302(b) must be met with regards to the use of an electronically signed authentication document pursuant to this paragraph (b). Upon request, the registrant shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this section.
[47 FR 11445, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 61 FR 30402, June 14, 1996; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 85 FR 78228, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 230.472
Filing of amendments; number of copies.
(a) Except for telegraphic amendments filed pursuant to Rule 473 (§ 230.473), there shall be filed with the Commission three complete, unmarked copies of every amendment, including exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as part of the amendment, and eight additional copies of such amendment at least five of which shall be marked to indicate clearly and precisely, by underlining or in some other appropriate manner, the changes effected in the registration statement by the amendment. Where the amendment to the registration statement incorporates into the prospectus documents which are required to be delivered with the prospectus in lieu of prospectus presentation, the eight additional copies shall be accompanied by eight copies of such documents. No other exhibits are required to accompany such additional copies.
(b) Every amendment which relates to a prospectus shall include copies of the prospectus as amended. Each such copy of the amended prospectus shall be accompanied by a copy of the cross reference sheet required by Rule 481(a) (§ 230.481(a)), where applicable, if the amendment of the prospectus resulted in any change in the accuracy of the cross reference sheet previously filed. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, only copies of the changed pages of the prospectus, and the cross reference sheet if amended, need be included in an amendment filed pursuant to an undertaking referred to in Item 512(d) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.512(d) of this chapter).
(c) Every amendment of a financial statement which is not included in the prospectus shall include copies of the financial statement as amended. Every amendment relating to a certified financial statement shall include the consent of the certifying accountant to the use of his certificate in connection with the amended financial statement in the registration statement or prospectus and to being named as having certified such financial statement.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if a registration statement filed on Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter) is amended, there shall be filed with the Commission three complete, unmarked copies of every amendment, including exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as part of the amendment. Three additional, unmarked copies of such amendments shall be furnished to the Commission. No exhibits are required to accompany the additional copies of amendments to registration statements filed on Form S-8.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if a post-effective amendment is filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) (§ 230.462(b)) and Rule 110(d) (§ 230.110(d)), one copy of the complete post-effective amendment, including
exhibits and all other papers and documents filed as a part thereof shall be filed with the Commission. Such copy should not be bound and may contain facsimile versions of manual signatures in accordance with Rule 402(e) (§ 230.402(e)).
[47 FR 11445, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 23924, June 13, 1990; 60 FR 26618, May 17, 1995: 61 FR 30402, June 14, 1996]
§ 230.473
Delaying amendments.
(a) An amendment in the following form filed with a registration statement, or as an amendment to a registration statement which has not become effective, shall be deemed, for the purpose of section 8(a) of the Act, to be filed on such date or dates as may be necessary to delay the effective date of such registration statement (1) until the registrant shall file a further amendment which specifically states as provided in paragraph (b) of this section that such registration statement shall thereafter become effective in accordance with section 8(a) of the Act, or (2) until the registration statement shall become effective on such date as the Commission, acting pursuant to section 8(a), may determine:
The registrant hereby amends this registration statement on such date or dates as may be necessary to delay its effective date until the registrant shall file a further amendment which specifically states that this registration statement shall thereafter become effective in accordance with section 8(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 or until the registration statement shall become effective on such date as the Commission acting pursuant to said section 8(a), may determine.
(b) An amendment which for the purpose of paragraph (a)(1) of this section specifically states that a registration statement shall thereafter become effective in accordance with section 8(a) of the Act, shall be in the following form:
This registration statement shall hereafter become effective in accordance with the provisions of section 8(a) of the Securities Act of 1933.
(c) An amendment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section which is filed with a registration statement shall be set forth on the facing page thereof. Any such amendment filed after the filing of the registration statement, any amendment altering the proposed date of public sale of the securities being registered, or any amendment filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may be made by telegram, letter, or facsimile transmission. Each such telegraphic amendment shall be confirmed in writing within a reasonable time by the filing of a signed copy of the amendment. Such confirmation shall not be deemed an amendment.
(d) No amendments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may be filed with a registration statement on Form F-7, F-8 or F-80 (§ 239.37, § 239.38 or § 239.41 of this chapter); on F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter) relating to an offering being made contemporaneously in the United States and the issuer's home jurisdiction; on Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter); on Form S-3 or F-3 (§ 239.13 or § 239.33 of this chapter) relating to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan; on Form S-3 or Form F-3 relating to an automatic shelf registration statement; or on Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) complying with General Instruction G of that Form.
[47 FR 11445, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 30054, 30055, July 1, 1991; 61 FR 30402, June 14, 1996; 70 FR 44819, Aug. 3, 2005; 76 FR 46617, Aug. 3, 2011; 86 70200, Dec. 9, 2021]
§ 230.474
Date of filing of amendments.
The date on which amendments are actually received by the Commission shall be the date of filing thereof, if all of the requirements of the act and the rules with respect to such filing have been complied with.
[16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951]
§ 230.475
Amendment filed with consent of Commission.
An application for the Commission's consent to the filing of an amendment with the effect provided in section 8(a) of the Act may be filed before or after or concurrently with the filing of the amendment. The application shall be signed and shall state fully the grounds upon which it is made. The Commission's consent shall be deemed to have been given and the amendment shall be treated as a part of the registration statement only when the Commission
shall after the filing of such amendment enter an order to that effect.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4075, June 24, 1947]
§ 230.475a
Certain pre-effective amendments deemed filed with the consent of the Commission.
Amendments to a registration statement on Form F-2 (§ 239.32 of this chapter) relating to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan, or on Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) complying with General Instruction G of that Form, filed prior to the effectiveness of such registration statement shall be deemed to have been filed with a consent of the Commission and shall accordingly be treated as part of the registration statement.
[59 FR 21650, Apr. 26, 1994]
§ 230.476
Amendment filed pursuant to order of Commission.
An amendment filed prior to the effective date of a registration statement shall be deemed to have been filed pursuant to an order of the Commission within the meaning of section 8(a) of the act so as to be treated as a part of the registration statement only when the Commission shall after the filing of such amendment enter an order declaring that it has been filed pursuant to the Commission's previous order.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4075, June 24, 1947]
§ 230.477
Withdrawal of registration statement or amendment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any registration statement or any amendment or exhibit thereto may be withdrawn upon application if the Commission, finding such withdrawal consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors, consents thereto.
(b) Any application for withdrawal of a registration statement filed on Form F-2 (§ 239.32 of this chapter) relating to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan, or on Form S-4 (§ 239.25 of this chapter) complying with General Instruction G of that Form, and/or any pre-effective amendment thereto, will be deemed granted upon filing if such filing is made prior to the effective date. Any other application for withdrawal of an entire registration statement made before the effective date of the registration statement will be deemed granted at the time the application is filed with the Commission unless, within 15 calendar days after the registrant files the application, the Commission notifies the registrant that the application for withdrawal will not be granted.
(c) The registrant must sign any application for withdrawal and must state fully in it the grounds on which the registrant makes the application. The fee paid upon the filing of the registration statement will not be refunded to the registrant. The registrant must state in the application that no securities were sold in connection with the offering. If the registrant applies for withdrawal in anticipation of reliance on § 230.155(c), the registrant must, without discussing any terms of the private offering, state in the application that the registrant may undertake a subsequent private offering in reliance on § 230.155(c).
(d) Any withdrawn document will remain in the Commission's public files, as well as the related request for withdrawal.
[47 FR 11445, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 54770, Dec. 6, 1982; 50 FR 19001, May 6, 1985; 59 FR 21650, Apr. 26, 1994; 66 FR 8897, Feb. 5, 2001]
§ 230.478
Powers to amend or withdraw registration statement.
All persons signing a registration statement shall be deemed, in the absence of a statement to the contrary, to confer upon the registrant, and upon the agent for service named in the registration statement, the following powers:
(a) A power to amend the registration statement (1) by filing an amendment as provided in § 230.473; (2) by filing any written consent; (3) by correcting typographical errors; (4) by reducing the amount of securities registered, pursuant to an undertaking contained in the registration statement.
(b) A power to make application pursuant to § 230.475 for the Commission's consent to the filing of an amendment.
(c) A power to withdraw the registration statement or any amendment or exhibit thereto.
(d) A power to consent to the entry of an order under section 8(b) of the act, waiving notice and hearing, such order being entered without prejudice to the right of the registrant thereafter to have the order vacated upon a showing to the Commission that the registration statement as amended is no longer incomplete or inaccurate on its face in any material respect.
[Reg. C, 12 FR 4076, June 24, 1947, as amended at 16 FR 8737, Aug. 29, 1951]
§ 230.479
Procedure with respect to abandoned registration statements and post-effective amendments.
When a registration statement, or a post-effective amendment to such a statement, has been on file with the Commission for a period of nine months and has not become effective the Commission may, in its discretion, proceed in the following manner to determine whether such registration statement or amendment has been abandoned by the registrant. If the registration statement has been amended, otherwise than for the purpose of delaying the effective date thereof, or if the post-effective amendment has been amended, the nine-month period shall be computed from the date of the latest such amendment.
(a) A notice will be sent to the registrant, and to the agent for service named in the registration statement, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent addresses for the registrant and the agent for service reflected in the registration statement. Such notice will inform the registrant and the agent for service that the registration statement or amendment is out of date and must be either amended to comply with the applicable requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder or be withdrawn within 30 days after the date of such notice.
(b) If the registrant or the agent for service fails to respond to such notice by filing a substantive amendment or withdrawing the registration statement and does not furnish a satisfactory explanation as to why it has not done so within such 30 days, the Commission may, where consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors, enter an order declaring the registration statement or amendment abandoned.
(c) When such an order is entered by the Commission the papers comprising the registration statement or amendment will not be removed from the files of the Commission but an order shall be included in the file for the registration statement in the following manner: “Declared abandoned by order dated ___.”___
[47 FR 11446, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]

# investment companies; business development companies

# Source:
Sections 230.480 through 230.485 appear at 47 FR 11446, Mar. 16, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# Note:
The rules in this section of regulation C (§§ 230.480 to 230.488 and §§ 230.495 to 230.498) apply only to investment companies and business development companies. Section 230.489 applies to certain entities excepted from the definition of investment company by rules under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The rules in the rest of Regulation C (§§ 230.400 to 230.479 and §§ 230.490 to 230.494), unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, also apply to investment companies and business development companies.
See
§ 230.400.
§ 230.480
Title of securities.
If a registration statement is prepared on a form available solely to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or a business development company which is selling or proposing to sell its securities pursuant to a registration statement which has been filed under the Act, wherever the title of securities is required to be stated there shall be given such information as will indicate the type and general character of the securities, including the following:
(a) In the case of shares, the par or stated value, if any; the rate of dividends, if fixed, and whether cumulative or non-cumulative; a brief indication of the preference, if any; and, if convertible, a statement to that effect.
(b) In the case of funded debt, the rate of interest; the date of maturity, or, if the issue matures serially, a brief indication of the serial maturities, such as “maturing serially from 1950 to
1960”; if the payment of principal or interest is contingent, an appropriate indication of such contingency; a brief indication of the priority of the issue; and, if convertible, a statement to that effect.
(c) In the case of any other kind of security, appropriate information of comparable character.
§ 230.481
Information required in prospectuses.
Disclose the following in registration statements prepared on a form available solely to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or in registration statements filed under the Act for a company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company under Sections 55 through 65 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-54—80a-64):
(a)
Facing page.
Indicate the approximate date of the proposed sale of the securities to the public.
(b)
Outside front cover page.
If applicable, include the following in plain English as required by § 230.421(d):
(1)
Commission legend.
Provide a legend that indicates that the Securities and Exchange Commission has not approved or disapproved of the securities or passed upon the accuracy or adequacy of the disclosure in the prospectus and that any contrary representation is a criminal offense. The legend may be in one of the following or other clear and concise language:

# Example A:
The Securities and Exchange Commission has not approved or disapproved these securities or passed upon the adequacy of this prospectus. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.

# Example B:
The Securities and Exchange Commission has not approved or disapproved these securities or determined if this prospectus is truthful or complete. Any representation to the contrary is a criminal offense.
(2)
“Subject to Completion” legend.
(i) If a prospectus or Statement of Additional Information will be used before the effective date of the registration statement, include on the outside front cover page of the prospectus or Statement of Additional Information, a prominent statement that:
(A) The information in the prospectus or Statement of Additional Information will be amended or completed;
(B) A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(C) The securities may not be sold until the registration statement becomes effective; and
(D) In a prospectus, that the prospectus is not an offer to sell the securities and it is not soliciting an offer to buy the securities in any state where offers or sales are not permitted, or in a Statement of Additional Information, that the Statement of Additional Information is not a prospectus.
(ii) The legend may be in the following language or other clear and understandable language:
The information in this prospectus (or Statement of Additional Information) is not complete and may be changed. We may not sell these securities until the registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is effective. This prospectus (or Statement of Additional Information) is not an offer to sell these securities and is not soliciting an offer to buy these securities in any state where the offer or sale is not permitted.
(iii) In the case of a prospectus that omits pricing information under § 230.430A, provide the information and legend in paragraph (b)(2) of this section if the prospectus or Statement of Additional Information is used before the initial public offering price is determined.
(c)
Table of contents.
Include on either the outside front, inside front, or outside back cover page of the prospectus, a reasonably detailed table of contents. It must show the page number of the various sections or subdivisions of the prospectus. Include this table of contents immediately following the cover page in any prospectus delivered electronically.
(d)
Stabilization and other transactions.
(1) Indicate on the front cover page of the prospectus if the underwriter has any arrangement with the issuer, such as an over-allotment option, under which the underwriter may purchase additional shares in connection with the offering, and state the amount of
additional shares the underwriter may purchase under the arrangement. Provide disclosure in the prospectus that briefly describes any transaction that the underwriter intends to conduct during the offering that stabilizes, maintains, or otherwise affects the market price of the offered securities. Include information on stabilizing transactions, syndicate short covering transactions, penalty bids, or any other transactions that affect the offered security's price. Describe the nature of the transactions clearly and explain how the transactions affect the offered security's price. Identify the exchange or other market on which these transactions may occur. If true, disclose that the underwriter may discontinue these transactions at any time;
(2) If the stabilizing began before the effective date of the registration statement, disclose in the prospectus the amount of securities bought, the prices at which they were bought and the period within which they were bought. In the event that § 230.430A of this chapter is used, the prospectus filed under § 230.497(h) or included in a post-effective amendment must contain information on the stabilizing transactions that took place before the determination of the public offering price shown in the prospectus; and
(3) If you are making a warrant or rights offering of securities to existing security holders and the securities not purchased by existing security holders are to be reoffered to the public, disclose in the prospectus used in connection with the reoffering:
(i) The amount of securities bought in stabilization activities during the offering period and the price or range of prices at which the securities were bought;
(ii) The amount of the offered securities subscribed for during the offering period;
(iii) The amount of the offered securities subscribed for by the underwriters during the offering period;
(iv) The amount of the offered securities sold during the offering period by the underwriters and the price or range of prices at which the securities were sold; and
(v) The amount of the offered securities to be reoffered to the public and the public offering price.
(e)
Dealer prospectus delivery obligations.
On the outside back cover page of the prospectus, advise dealers of their prospectus delivery obligation, including the expiration date specified by Section 4(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(3)) and § 230.174. If the expiration date is not known on the effective date of the registration statement, include the expiration date in the copy of the prospectus filed under § 230.497. This information need not be included if dealers are not required to deliver a prospectus under § 230.174 or Section 24(d) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-24). Use the following or other clear, plain language:

# Dealer Prospectus Delivery Obligation
Until (insert date), all dealers that effect transactions in these securities, whether or not participating in this offering, may be required to deliver a prospectus. This is in addition to the dealers' obligation to deliver a prospectus when acting as underwriters and with respect to their unsold allotments or subscriptions.
(f)
Electronic distribution.
Where a prospectus is distributed through an electronic medium, issuers may satisfy legibility requirements applicable to printed documents, such as paper size, type size and font, bold-face type, italics and red ink, by presenting all required information in a format readily communicated to investors, and where indicated, in a manner reasonably calculated to draw investor attention to specific information.
[63 FR 6385, Feb. 6, 1998]
§ 230.482
Advertising by an investment company as satisfying requirements of section 10.
(a)
Scope of rule.
This section applies to an advertisement or other sales material (
advertisement
) with respect to securities of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) (
1940 Act
), or a business development company, that is selling or proposing to sell its securities pursuant to a registration statement that has been filed under the Act. This section does not
apply to an advertisement that is excepted from the definition of prospectus by section 2(a)(10) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(10)), § 230.498(d), or § 230.498A(g) or (j)(2), or to a summary prospectus under § 230.498 or § 230.498A. An advertisement that complies with this section, which may include information the substance of which is not included in the prospectus specified in section 10(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C 77j(a)), will be deemed to be a prospectus under section 10(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(b)) for the purposes of section 5(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(1)).

# Note 1 to paragraph (a):
The fact that an advertisement complies with this section does not relieve the investment company, underwriter, or dealer of any obligations with respect to the advertisement under the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws. For guidance about factors to be weighed in determining whether statements, representations, illustrations, and descriptions contained in investment company advertisements are misleading, see § 230.156. In addition, an advertisement that complies with this section is subject to the legibility requirements of § 230.420.
(b)
Required disclosure.
This paragraph describes information that is required to be included in an advertisement in order to comply with this section.
(1)
Availability of additional information.
An advertisement must include a statement that advises an investor to consider the investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses of the investment company carefully before investing; explains that the prospectus and, if available, the summary prospectus contain this and other information about the investment company; identifies a source from which an investor may obtain a prospectus and, if available, a summary prospectus; and states that the prospectus and, if available, the summary prospectus should be read carefully before investing.
(2)
Advertisements used prior to effectiveness of registration statement.
An advertisement that is used prior to effectiveness of the investment company's registration statement or the determination of the public offering price (in the case of a registration statement that becomes effective omitting information from the prospectus contained in the registration statement in reliance upon § 230.430A) must include the “Subject to Completion” legend required by § 230.481(b)(2).
(3)
Advertisements including performance data.
An advertisement that includes performance data of an open-end management investment company or a separate account registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust offering variable annuity contracts (
trust account
) must include the following
(i) A legend disclosing that the performance data quoted represents past performance; that past performance does not guarantee future results; that the investment return and principal value of an investment will fluctuate so that an investor's shares, when redeemed, may be worth more or less than their original cost; and that current performance may be lower or higher than the performance data quoted. The legend should also identify either a toll-free (or collect) telephone number or a Web site where an investor may obtain performance data current to the most recent month-end unless the advertisement includes total return quotations current to the most recent month ended seven business days prior to the date of use. An advertisement for a money market fund that is a government money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(16) of this chapter, or a retail money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(25) of this chapter may omit the disclosure about principal value fluctuation; and

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(3)(
i

# ):
The date of use refers to the date or dates when an advertisement is used by investors, not the date on which an advertisement is published or submitted for publication. The date of use refers to the entire period of use by investors and not simply the first date on which an advertisement is used.
(ii) If a sales load or any other nonrecurring fee is charged, the maximum amount of the load or fee, and if the sales load or fee is not reflected, a statement that the performance data does not reflect the deduction of the sales load or fee, and that, if reflected, the load or fee would reduce the performance quoted.
(4)
Money market funds.
(i) An advertisement for an investment company that holds itself out to be a money
market fund, that is not a government money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(14) of this chapter, or a retail money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(21) of this chapter, must include the following statement:
You could lose money by investing in the Fund. Because the share price of the Fund will fluctuate, when you sell your shares they may be worth more or less than what you originally paid for them. The Fund may impose a fee upon sale of your shares. The Fund generally must impose a fee when net sales of Fund shares exceed certain levels. An investment in the Fund is not a bank account and is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. The Fund's sponsor is not required to reimburse the Fund for losses, and you should not expect that the sponsor will provide financial support to the Fund at any time, including during periods of market stress.
(ii) An advertisement for an investment company that holds itself out to be a money market fund, that is a government money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(14) of this chapter, or a retail money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(21) of this chapter, and that is subject to the requirements of § 270.2a-7(c)(2)(i) of this chapter (or is not subject to the requirements of § 270.2a-7(c)(2)(i) of this chapter pursuant to § 270.2a-7(c)(2)(i)(B) of this chapter, but has chosen to rely on the ability to impose liquidity fees consistent with the requirements of § 270.2a-7(c)(2)(i)), must include the following statement:
You could lose money by investing in the Fund. Although the Fund seeks to preserve the value of your investment at $1.00 per share, it cannot guarantee it will do so. The Fund may impose a fee upon sale of your shares. An investment in the Fund is not a bank account and is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. The Fund's sponsor is not required to reimburse the Fund for losses, and you should not expect that the sponsor will provide financial support to the Fund at any time, including during periods of market stress.
(iii) An advertisement for an investment company that holds itself out to be a money market fund, that is a government money market fund, as defined in § 270.2a-7(a)(14) of this chapter, that is not subject to the requirements of § 270.2a-7(c)(2)(i) of this chapter pursuant to § 270.2a-7(c)(2)(i)(B) of this chapter, and that has not chosen to rely on the ability to impose liquidity fees consistent with the requirements of § 270.2a-7(c)(2)(i), must include the following statement:
You could lose money by investing in the Fund. Although the Fund seeks to preserve the value of your investment at $1.00 per share, it cannot guarantee it will do so. An investment in the Fund is not a bank account and is not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. The Fund's sponsor is not required to reimburse the Fund for losses, and you should not expect that the sponsor will provide financial support to the Fund at any time, including during periods of market stress.

# Note 3 to paragraph (b)(4).
If an affiliated person, promoter, or principal underwriter of the Fund, or an affiliated person of such a person, has contractually committed to provide financial support to the Fund, the statement may omit the last sentence (“The Fund's sponsor is not required to reimburse the Fund for losses, and you should not expect that the sponsor will provide financial support to the Fund at any time, including during periods of market stress.”) for the term of the agreement. For purposes of this note, the term “financial support” includes any capital contribution, purchase of a security from the Fund in reliance on § 270.17a-9 of this chapter, purchase of any defaulted or devalued security at par, execution of letter of credit or letter of indemnity, capital support agreement (whether or not the Fund ultimately received support), performance guarantee, or any other similar action reasonably intended to increase or stabilize the value or liquidity of the fund's portfolio; however, the term “financial support” excludes any routine waiver of fees or reimbursement of fund expenses, routine inter-fund lending, routine inter-fund purchases of fund shares, or any action that would qualify as financial support as defined in this note, that the board of directors has otherwise determined not to be reasonably intended to increase or stabilize the value or liquidity of the fund's portfolio.
(5)
Presentation.
In a print advertisement, the statements required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section must be presented in a type size at least as large as and of a style different from, but at least as prominent as, that used in the major portion of the advertisement, provided that when performance data is presented in a type size smaller than that of the major portion of the advertisement, the statements required by paragraph (b)(3) of
this section may appear in a type size no smaller than that of the performance data. If an advertisement is delivered through an electronic medium, the legibility requirements for the statements required by paragraph (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section relating to type size and style may be satisfied by presenting the statements in any manner reasonably calculated to draw investor attention to them. In a radio or television advertisement, the statements required by paragraph (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section must be given emphasis equal to that used in the major portion of the advertisement. The statements required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be presented in close proximity to the performance data, and, in a print advertisement, must be presented in the body of the advertisement and not in a footnote.
(6)
Commission legend.
An advertisement that complies with this section need not contain the Commission legend required by § 230.481(b)(1).
(c)
Use of applications.
An advertisement that complies with this section may not contain or be accompanied by any application by which a prospective investor may invest in the investment company, except that a prospectus meeting the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)) by which a unit investment trust offers variable annuity or variable life insurance contracts may contain a contract application although the prospectus includes, or is accompanied by, information about an investment company in which the unit investment trust invests that, pursuant to this section, is deemed a prospectus under section 10(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(b)).
(d)
Performance data for non-money market funds.
In the case of an open-end management investment company or a trust account (other than a money market fund referred to in paragraph (e) of this section), any quotation of the company's performance contained in an advertisement shall be limited to quotations of:
(1)
Current yield.
A current yield that:
(i) Is based on the methods of computation prescribed in Form N-1A(§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), or N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter);
(ii) Is accompanied by quotations of total return as provided for in paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(iii) Is set out in no greater prominence than the required quotations of total return; and
(iv) Adjacent to the quotation and with no less prominence than the quotation, identifies the length of and the date of the last day in the base period used in computing the quotation.
(2)
Tax-equivalent yield.
A tax-equivalent yield that:
(i) Is based on the methods of computation prescribed in Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), or N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter);
(ii) Is accompanied by quotations of yield as provided for in paragraph (d)(1) of this section and total return as provided for in paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(iii) Is set out in no greater prominence than the required quotations of yield and total return;
(iv) Relates to the same base period as the required quotation of yield; and
(v) Adjacent to the quotation and with no less prominence than the quotation, identifies the length of and the date of the last day in the base period used in computing the quotation.
(3)
Average annual total return.
Average annual total return for one, five, and ten year periods, except that if the company's registration statement under the Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) has been in effect for less than one, five, or ten years, the time period during which the registration statement was in effect is substituted for the period(s) otherwise prescribed. The quotations must:
(i) Be based on the methods of computation prescribed in Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), or N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter);
(ii) Be current to the most recent calendar quarter ended prior to the submission of the advertisement for publication;
(iii) Be set out with equal prominence; and
(iv) Adjacent to the quotation and with no less prominence than the quotation, identify the length of and the last day of the one, five, and ten year periods.
(4)
After-tax return.
For an open-end management investment company, average annual total return (after taxes on distributions) and average annual total return (after taxes on distributions and redemption) for one, five, and ten year periods, except that if the company's registration statement under the Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) has been in effect for less than one, five, or ten years, the time period during which the registration statement was in effect is substituted for the period(s) otherwise prescribed. The quotations must:
(i) Be based on the methods of computation prescribed in Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter);
(ii) Be current to the most recent calendar quarter ended prior to the submission of the advertisement for publication;
(iii) Be accompanied by quotations of total return as provided for in paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(iv) Include both average annual total return (after taxes on distributions) and average annual total return (after taxes on distributions and redemption);
(v) Be set out with equal prominence and be set out in no greater prominence than the required quotations of total return; and
(vi) Adjacent to the quotations and with no less prominence than the quotations, identify the length of and the last day of the one, five, and ten year periods.
(5)
Other performance measures.
Any other historical measure of company performance (not subject to any prescribed method of computation) if such measurement:
(i) Reflects all elements of return;
(ii) Is accompanied by quotations of total return as provided for in paragraph (d)(3) of this section;
(iii) In the case of any measure of performance adjusted to reflect the effect of taxes, is accompanied by quotations of total return as provided for in paragraph (d)(4) of this section;
(iv) Is set out in no greater prominence than the required quotations of total return; and
(v) Adjacent to the measurement and with no less prominence than the measurement, identifies the length of and the last day of the period for which performance is measured.
(e)
Performance data for money market funds.
In the case of a money market fund:
(1)
Yield.
Any quotation of the money market fund's yield in an advertisement shall be based on the methods of computation prescribed in Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), or N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter) and may include:
(i) A quotation of current yield that, adjacent to the quotation and with no less prominence than the quotation, identifies the length of and the date of the last day in the base period used in computing that quotation;
(ii) A quotation of effective yield if it appears in the same advertisement as a quotation of current yield and each quotation relates to an identical base period and is presented with equal prominence; or
(iii) A quotation or quotations of tax-equivalent yield or tax-equivalent effective yield if it appears in the same advertisement as a quotation of current yield and each quotation relates to the same base period as the quotation of current yield, is presented with equal prominence, and states the income tax rate used in the calculation.
(2)
Total return.
Accompany any quotation of the money market fund's total return in an advertisement with a quotation of the money market fund's current yield under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. Place the quotations of total return and current yield next to each other, in the same size print, and if there is a material difference between the quoted total return and the quoted current yield, include a statement that the yield quotation more closely reflects the current earnings of the money market fund than the total return quotation.
(f)
Advertisements that make tax representations.
An advertisement for an open-end management investment
company (other than a company that is permitted under § 270.35d-1(a)(4) of this chapter to use a name suggesting that the company's distributions are exempt from federal income tax or from both federal and state income tax) that represents or implies that the company is managed to limit or control the effect of taxes on company performance must accompany any quotation of the company's performance permitted by paragraph (d) of this section with quotations of total return as provided for in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(g)
Timeliness of performance data.
All performance data contained in any advertisement must be as of the most recent practicable date considering the type of investment company and the media through which the data will be conveyed, except that any advertisement containing total return quotations will be considered to have complied with this paragraph provided that:
(1)(i) The total return quotations are current to the most recent calendar quarter ended prior to the submission of the advertisement for publication; and
(ii) Total return quotations current to the most recent month ended seven business days prior to the date of use are provided at the toll-free (or collect) telephone number or Web site identified pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section; or
(2) The total return quotations are current to the most recent month ended seven business days prior to the date of use of the advertisement.

# Note to paragraph (
g

# ):
The date of use refers to the date or dates when an advertisement is used by investors, not the date on which an advertisement is published or submitted for publication. The date of use refers to the entire period of use by investors and not simply the first date on which an advertisement is used.
(h)
Filing.
An advertisement that complies with this section need not be filed as part of the registration statement filed under the Act.

# Note to paragraph (
h

# ):
These advertisements, unless filed with NASD Regulation, Inc., are required to be filed in accordance with the requirements of § 230.497.
(i)
Advertisements including fee or expense figures.
An advertisement that provides fee or expense figures for an investment company must include the following:
(1) The maximum amount of any sales load, or any other nonrecurring fee, and the total annual expenses without any fee waiver or expense reimbursement arrangement, based on the methods of computation prescribed by the investment company's registration statement form under the 1940 Act or under the Act for a prospectus and presented at least as prominently as any other fee or expense figure included in the advertisement; and
(2) The expected termination date of a fee waiver or expense reimbursement arrangement, if the advertisement provides total annual expenses net of fee waiver or expense reimbursement arrangement amounts.
(j)
Timeliness of fee and expense information.
Fee and expense information contained in an advertisement must be as of the date of the investment company's most recent prospectus or, if the company no longer has an effective registration statement under the Act, as of the date of its most recent annual shareholder report, except that a company may provide more current information if available.
[68 FR 57777, Oct. 6, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 4584, Jan. 26, 2009; 79 FR 47957, Aug. 14, 2014; 85 FR 26093, May 1, 2020; 87 FR 72846, Nov. 25, 2022; 88 FR 17710, Mar. 24, 2023; 89 FR 90590, Nov. 18, 2024]
§ 230.483
Exhibits for certain registration statements.
If a registration statement is prepared on a form available solely to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or a business development company which is selling or proposing to sell its securities pursuant to a registration statement which has been filed under the Act, the following provisions apply:
(a) Such registration statement shall contain an exhibit index, which should immediately precede the exhibits filed with such registration statement. The exhibit index shall indicate by handwritten, typed, printed or other legible form of notation in the manually signed original registration statement the page number in the sequential numbering system where such exhibit
can be found. Where exhibits are incorporated by reference, this fact shall be noted in the exhibit index referred to in the preceding sentence. Further, the first page of the manually signed registration statement shall list the page in the filing where the exhibit index is located.
(b) If any name is signed to the registration statement pursuant to a power of attorney, copies of such powers of attorney shall be filed as an exhibit to the registration statement. In addition, if the name of any officer signing on behalf of the registrant, or attesting the registrant's seal, is signed pursuant to a power of attorney, certified copies of a resolution of the registrant's board of directors authorizing such signature shall also be filed as an exhibit to the registration statement. A power of attorney that is filed with the Commission shall relate to a specific filing, an amendment thereto, or a related registration statement that is to be effective upon filing pursuant to Rule 462(b) (§ 230.462(b)) under the Act.
(c)(1) All written consents are required to be filed as an exhibit to the registration statement, together with a list thereof. Such consents shall be dated and manually signed. Where the consent of an expert or counsel is contained in his report or opinion, a reference shall be made in the list to the report or opinion containing the consent.
(2) In a registration statement filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) (§ 230.462(b)) by a closed-end company, any required consent may be incorporated by reference into the registration statement from a previously filed registration statement related to the offering, provided that the consent contained in the previously filed registration statement expressly provides for such incorporation. Any consent filed in a Rule 462(b) (§ 230.462(b)) registration statement may contain duplicated or facsimile versions of required signatures, and such signatures shall be considered manually filed for the purposes of the Act and the rules thereunder.
(d) The registrant:
(1) May file such exhibits as it may desire in addition to those required by the appropriate form. Such exhibits shall be so marked as to indicate clearly the subject matters to which they refer;
(2) In any case where two or more indentures, contracts, frachises, or other documents required to be filed as exhibits are substantially identical in all material respects except as to the parties thereto, the dates of execution, or other details, need file a copy of only one of such documents, with a schedule identifying the other documents omitted and setting forth the material details in which such documents differ from the document of which a copy is filed. The Commission may at any time in its discretion require filing of copies of any documents so omitted; and
(3) If an exhibit to a registration statement (other than an opinion or consent), filed in preliminary form, has been changed only (i) to insert information as to interest, dividend or conversion rates, redemption or conversion prices, purchase or offering prices, underwriters' or dealers' commission, names, addresses or participation of underwriters or similar matters, which information appears elsewhere in an amendment to the registration statement, or (ii) to correct typographical errors, insert signatures or make other similar immaterial changes, then, notwithstanding any contrary requirement of any rule or form, need not refile such exhibit as so amended; provided the registrant states in the amendment to the registration statement the basis provided by this rule for not refiling such exhibit. Any such incomplete exhibit may not, however, be incorporated by reference in any subsequent filing under any Act administered by the Commission.
[47 FR 11446, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 14857, Mar. 18, 1993; 59 FR 36261, July 15, 1994; 59 FR 67761, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 26618, May 17, 1995; 63 FR 13943, Mar. 23, 1998; 65 FR 24799, Apr. 27, 2000]
§ 230.484
Undertaking required in certain registration statements.
If a registration statement is prepared on a form available solely to investment companies registered under the investment Company Act of 1940, or a business development company which
is selling or proposing to sell its securities pursuant to a registration statement which has been filed under the Act, if
(a) Any acceleration is requested of the effective date of the registration statement pursuant to Rule 461 (§ 230.461), and
(b)(1) Any provision or arrangement exists whereby the registrant may indemnify a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant against liabilities arising under the Act, or
(2) The underwriting agreement contains provisions by which indemnification against such liabilities is given by the registrant to the underwriter or controlling persons of the underwriter and the director, officer or controlling person of the registrant is such an underwriter or controlling person thereof or a member of any firm which is an underwriter, and
(3) The benefits of such indemnification are not waived by such persons; the registration statement shall include a brief description of the indemnification provisions and an undertaking in substantially the following form:
Insofar as indemnification for liability arising under the Securities Act of 1933 may be permitted to directors, officers and controlling persons of the registrant pursuant to the foregoing provisions, or otherwise, the registrant has been advised that in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Commission such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Act and is, therefore, unenforceable. In the event that a claim for indemnification against such liabilities (other than the payment by the registrant of expenses incurred or paid by a director, officer or controlling person of the registrant in the successful defense of any action, suit or proceeding) is asserted by such director, officer or controlling person in connection with the securities being registered, the registrant will, unless in the opinion of its counsel the matter has been settled by controlling precedent, submit to a court of appropriate jurisdiction the question whether such indemnification by it is against public policy as expressed in the Act and will be governed by the final adjudication of such issue.
§ 230.485
Effective date of post-effective amendments filed by certain registered investment companies or issuers offering registered non-variable annuities.
(a)
Automatic effectiveness.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a post-effective amendment to a registration statement filed by a registered open-end management investment company, unit investment trust or, separate account as defined in section 2(a)(37) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)] or to register an offering of a registered non-variable annuity securities shall become effective on the sixtieth day after the filing thereof, or a later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the amendment, which date shall be no later than eighty days after the date on which the amendment is filed.(
(2) A post-effective amendment filed by a registered open-end management investment company for the purpose of adding a series shall become effective on the seventy-fifth day after the filing thereof or a later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the amendment, which date shall be no later than ninety-five days after the date on which the amendment is filed.
(3) The Commission, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors, may declare an amendment filed under this paragraph (a) effective on an earlier date.
(b)
Immediate effectiveness.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a post-effective amendment to a registration statement filed by a registered open-end management investment company, unit investment trust or separate account as defined in section 2(a)(37) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)] or to register an offering of a registered non-variable annuity securities shall become effective on the date upon which it is filed with the Commission, or a later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the amendment, which date shall be not later than thirty days after the date on which the amendment is filed, except that a post-effective amendment including a designation of a new effective date pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of
this section shall become effective on the new effective date designated therein, Provided, that the following conditions are met:
(1) It is filed for no purpose other than one or more of the following:
(i) Bringing the financial statements up to date under section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3)] or Rules 3-12 or 3-18 of Regulation S-X [17 CFR 210.3-12 and 210.3-18];
(ii) Complying with an undertaking to file an amendment containing financial statements, which may be unaudited, within four to six months after the effective date of the registrant's registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
];
(iii) Designating a new effective date for a previously filed post-effective amendment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, which has not yet become effective,
Provided,
that the new effective date shall be no earlier than the effective date designated in the previously filed amendment under paragraph (a) of this section and no later than thirty days after that date;
(iv) Disclosing or updating the information required by Item 5(b) or 10(a)(2) of Form N-1A [17 CFR 239.15A and 274.11A];
(v) Making any non-material changes which the registrant deems appropriate;
(vi) In the case of a separate account registered as a unit investment trust, to make changes in the disclosure in the unit investment trust's registration statement to reflect changes to disclosure in the registration statement of the investment company in which the unit investment trust invests all of its assets; and
(vii) Any other purpose which the Commission shall approve.
(2) The registrant represents that the amendment is filed solely for one or more of the purposes specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and that no material event requiring disclosure in the prospectus, other than one listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or one for which the Commission has approved a filing under paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section, has occurred since the latest of the following three dates:
(i) The effective date of the registrant's registration statement;
(ii) The effective date of its most recent post-effective amendment to its registration statement which included a prospectus; or
(iii) The filing date of a post-effective amendment filed under paragraph (a) of this section which has not become effective.
(3) The amendment recites on its facing sheet that the registrant proposes that the amendment will become effective under paragraph (b) of this section.
(4) The representations of the registrant referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be made by certification on the signature page of the post-effective amendment that the amendment meets all the requirements for effectiveness under paragraph (b) of this section. If counsel prepared or reviewed the post-effective amendment filed under paragraph (b) of this section, counsel shall furnish to the Commission at the time the amendment is filed a written representation that the amendment does not contain disclosures that would render it ineligible to become effective under paragraph (b) of this section.
(c)
Incomplete or inaccurate amendments; suspension of use of paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) No amendment shall become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if, prior to the effective date of the amendment, it should appear to the Commission that the amendment may be incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, and the Commission furnishes to the registrant written notice that the effective date of the amendment is to be suspended. Following such action by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for such a hearing is included in the petition. If the Commission has suspended the effective date of an amendment, the amendment shall become effective on such date as the Commission may determine, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors.
(2) The Commission may, in the manner and under the circumstances set
forth in this paragraph (c)(2), suspend the ability of registrant to file a post-effective amendment under paragraph (b) of this section. The notice of such suspension shall be in writing and shall specify the period for which such suspension shall remain in effect. The Commission may issue a suspension if it appears to the Commission that a registrant which files a post-effective amendment under paragraph (b) of this section has not complied with the conditions of that paragraph. Any suspension under this paragraph (c)(2) shall become effective at such time as the Commission furnishes written notice thereof to the registrant. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any post-effective amendment that has been filed but has not, at the time of such suspension, become effective, and to any post-effective amendment that may be filed after the suspension. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to file a post-effective amendment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any post-effective amendment. Following this action by the Commission the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for a hearing is included in the petition.
(3) A registrant's ability to file a post-effective amendment, other than an amendment filed solely for purposes of submitting an Interactive Data File, under paragraph (b) of this section is automatically suspended if a registrant fails to submit any Interactive Data File (as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter) required by the registration form on which the registrant is filing the post-effective amendment. A suspension under this paragraph (c)(3) shall become effective at such time as the registrant fails to submit an Interactive Data File as required by the relevant registration form. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any post-effective amendment that is filed after the suspension becomes effective, but shall not apply to any post-effective amendment that was filed before the suspension became effective. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to file a post-effective amendment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any post-effective amendment. Any suspension under this paragraph (c)(3) shall terminate as soon as a registrant has submitted the Interactive Data File required by the relevant registration form.
(d)
Subsequent amendments.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a post-effective amendment that includes a prospectus shall not become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if a subsequent post-effective amendment relating to the prospectus is filed before such amendment becomes effective.
(2) A post-effective amendment that includes a prospectus shall become effective under paragraph (a) of this section notwithstanding the filing of a subsequent post-effective amendment relating to the prospectus,
Provided,
that the following conditions are met:
(i) the subsequent amendment is filed under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) the subsequent amendment designates as its effective date either:
(A) the date on which the prior post-effective amendment was to become effective under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(B) a new effective date designated under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
In this case the prior post-effective amendment filed under paragraph (a) of this section and any prior post-effective amendment filed under paragraph (b) of this section shall also become effective on the new effective date designated under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, if another post-effective amendment relating to the same prospectus is filed under paragraph (a) of this section before the prior amendments filed pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section have become effective, none of such prior amendments shall become effective under this section.
(e)
Certain separate accounts.
For purposes of this section, a post-effective amendment to a registration statement for an offering of securities by a registered open-end management investment company or unit investment
trust as those terms are used in paragraphs (a), (b), and (e) of this section and as such amendments are referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, shall include a post-effective amendment to an offering of securities by an insurance company funded through a separate account, as defined in section 2(a)(37) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)], where the separate account need not register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 under section 3(c)(11) thereof [15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(11)].
(f)
Electronic filers.
When ascertaining the date of filing, electronic filers should not presume a registration statement has been accepted until notice of acceptance has been received from the Commission.

# Note:
To determine the date of automatic effectiveness, the day following the filing date is the first day of the time period. For example, a post-effective amendment filed under paragraph (a) of this section on November 1 would become effective on December 31.
[59 FR 43464, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 47938, Sept. 12, 1997; 63 FR 13943, Mar. 23, 1998; 64 FR 27894, May 21, 1999; 74 FR 4584, Jan. 26, 2009; 74 FR 7774, Feb. 19, 2009; 83 FR 40873, Aug. 16, 2018; 85 FR 26093, May 1, 2020; 88 FR 70507, Oct. 11, 2023; 89 FR 60084, July 24, 2024]
§ 230.486
Effective date of post-effective amendments and registration statements filed by certain closed-end management investment companies.
(a)
Automatic effectiveness.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a post-effective amendment to a registration statement, or a registration statement described in paragraph (g) of this section, filed by a registered closed-end management investment company or business development company which makes periodic repurchase offers under § 270.23c-3 of this chapter or which offers securities under § 230.415(a)(1)(ix), shall become effective on the sixtieth day after the filing thereof, or a later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the amendment or registration statement, which date shall not be later than eighty days after the date on which the amendment or registration statement is filed,
Provided,
that the Commission, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors, may declare an amendment or registration statement filed under this paragraph (a) effective on an earlier date.
(b)
Immediate effectiveness.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a post-effective amendment to a registration statement, or a registration statement, filed by a registered closed-end management investment company or business development company which makes periodic repurchase offers under § 270.23c-3 of this chapter or which offers securities under § 230.415(a)(1)(ix), shall become effective on the date on which it is filed with the Commission, or a later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the amendment or registration statement, which date shall be not later than thirty days after the date on which the amendment or registration statement is filed, except that a post-effective amendment including a designation of a new effective date under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section shall become effective on the new effective date designated therein,
Provided,
that the following conditions are met:
(1) It is filed for no purpose other than one or more of the following:
(i) Registering additional shares of common stock for which a registration statement filed on Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) is effective;
(ii) Bringing the financial statements up to date under section 10(a)(3) of the Act [15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3)] or rule 3-18 of Regulation S-X [17 CFR 210.3-18];
(iii) Designating a new effective date for a previously filed post-effective amendment or registration statement for additional shares under paragraph (a) of this section, which has not yet become effective,
Provided,
that the new effective date shall be no earlier than the effective date designated in the previously filed amendment or registration statement under paragraph (a) of this section and no later than thirty days after that date;
(iv) Disclosing or updating the information required by Item 9.1.c of Form N-2 [17 CFR 239.14 and 274.11a-1];
(v) Making any non-material changes which the registrant deems appropriate;
(vi) Complying with § 230.415(a)(5) and (6); and
(vii) Any other purpose which the Commission shall approve.
(2) The registrant represents that the amendment is filed solely for one or more of the purposes specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and that no material event requiring disclosure in the prospectus, other than one listed in paragraph (b)(1) or one for which the Commission has approved a filing under paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section, has occurred since the latest of the following three dates:
(i) The effective date of the registrant's registration statement;
(ii) The effective date of its most recent post-effective amendment to its registration statement which included a prospectus; or
(iii) The filing date of a post-effective amendment or registration statement filed under paragraph (a) of this section which has not become effective; and
(3) The amendment or registration statement recites on the facing sheet thereof that the registrant proposes that the amendment or registration statement will become effective under paragraph (b) of this section.
(4) The representations of the registrant referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be made by certification on the signature page of the post-effective amendment or registration statement that the amendment or registration statement meets all of the requirements for effectiveness under paragraph (b) of this section. If counsel prepared or reviewed the post-effective amendment or registration statement filed under paragraph (b) of this section, counsel shall furnish to the Commission at the time the amendment or registration statement is filed a written representation that the amendment or registration statement does not contain disclosure which would render it ineligible to become effective under paragraph (b) of this section.
(c)
Incomplete or inaccurate amendments; suspension of use of paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) No amendment or registration statement shall become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if, prior to the effective date of the amendment or registration statement, it should appear to the Commission that the amendment or registration statement may be incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, and the Commission furnishes to the registrant written notice that the effective date of the amendment or registration statement is to be suspended. Following such action by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for such a hearing is included in the petition. If the Commission has suspended the effective date of an amendment or registration statement, the amendment or registration statement shall become effective on such date as the Commission may determine, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors.
(2) The Commission may, in the manner and under the circumstances set forth in this paragraph (c)(2), suspend the ability of a registrant to file a post-effective amendment or registration statement under paragraph (b) of this section. The notice of such suspension shall be in writing and shall specify the period for which such suspension shall remain in effect. The Commission may issue a suspension if it appears to the Commission that a registrant which files a post-effective amendment under paragraph (b) of this section has not complied with the conditions of that paragraph. Any suspension under this paragraph shall become effective at such time as the Commission furnishes written notice thereof to the company. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any post-effective amendment or registration statement that has been filed but has not, at the time of such suspension, become effective, and to any post-effective amendment or registration statement that may be filed after the suspension. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to file a post-effective amendment or registration statement under paragraph (b) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any post-effective amendment or registration statement. Following this action
by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for a hearing is included in the petition.
(d)
Subsequent amendments.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a post-effective amendment or registration statement which includes a prospectus shall not become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if a subsequent post-effective amendment or registration statement relating to the prospectus is filed before such amendment or registration statement becomes effective.
(2) A post-effective amendment or registration statement which includes a prospectus shall become effective under paragraph (a) of this section notwithstanding the filing of a subsequent post-effective amendment or registration statement relating to the prospectus,
Provided,
that the following conditions are met:
(i) The subsequent amendment or registration statement is filed under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) The subsequent amendment or registration statement designates as its effective date either:
(A) The date on which the prior post-effective amendment or registration statement was to become effective under paragraph (a) of this section or
(B) A new effective date designated under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
In this case the prior post-effective amendment or registration statement filed under paragraph (a) of this section and any prior post-effective amendment or registration statement filed under paragraph (b) of this section shall also become effective on the new effective date designated under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, if another post-effective amendment or registration statement relating to the same prospectus is filed under paragraph (a) of this section before the prior amendments or registration statements filed under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section have become effective, none of such prior amendments or registration statements shall become effective under this section.
(e)
Condition to use of paragraphs (a) or (b).
A post-effective amendment or new registration statement shall not become effective under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section unless within two years prior to the filing thereof a post-effective amendment or registration statement relating to the common stock of the registrant has become effective.
(f)
Electronic filers.
When ascertaining the date of filing, electronic filers should not presume a registration statement has been accepted until notice of acceptance has been received from the Commission.

# Note:
To determine the date of automatic effectiveness, the day following the filing date is the first day of the time period. For example, a post-effective amendment filed under paragraph (a) of this section on November 1 would become effective on December 31.
(g)
Registration statements.
A registration statement can become effective under paragraph (a) of this section if it is filed for the purpose of:
(1) Registering additional shares of common stock for which a registration statement filed on Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter) is effective; or
(2) Complying with § 230.415(a)(5) and (6).
[59 FR 43466, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 27894, May 21, 1999; 85 FR 33356, June 1, 2020]
§ 230.487
Effectiveness of registration statements filed by certain unit investment trusts.
(a)(1) A unit investment trust registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that files a registration statement pursuant to the Act in connection with the offering of the securities of a series of the unit investment trust, except the first series of such trust, may designate a date and time for such registration statement to become effective. If the registrant complies with the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the registration statement shall become effective in accordance with such designation.
(2) The registrant may designate the date and time of effectiveness in the registration statement or in any pre-effective amendment thereto. A pre-effective amendment to a registration statement with respect to which such a designation is properly made shall be deemed to have been filed with the consent of the Commission and shall accordingly be treated as part of the registration statement.
(b) Availability of effectiveness of a registration statement in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section is conditioned upon compliance with the following:
(1) The registrant is not engaged in the business of investing in securities issued by one or more open-end management investment companies;
(2) The designation provided for in paragraph (a) of this section is set forth on the facing sheet of such registration statement or a pre-effective amendment thereto;
(3) The registrant identifies one or more previous series of the trust for which the effective date of the registration statement was determined by the Commission or its staff, and makes the following representations:
(i) That the portfolio securities deposited in the series with respect to which the registration statement or pre-effective amendment is being filed do not differ materially in type or quality from those deposited in such previous series identified by the registrant; and
(ii) That, except to the extent necessary to identify the specific portfolio securities deposited in, and to provide essential financial information for, the series with respect to which the registration statement or pre-effective amendment thereto is being filed, the registration statement or pre-effective amendment thereto does not contain disclosures that differ in any material respect from those contained in the registration statement of such previous series identified by the registrant;
(4) The registrant represents that it has complied with rule 460 under the Act (17 CFR 230.460);
(5) The identification and representations provided for in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section are made on the signature page of the registration statement or a pre-effective amendment thereto; and
(6) If counsel prepared or reviewed such registration statement or a pre-effective amendment thereto, such counsel shall furnish to the Commission at the time the registration statement or pre-effective amendment thereto is filed a written representation that such registration statement or pre-effective amendment does not contain disclosures which would render such registration statement ineligible to become effective pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)(1) The Commission may, in the manner and under the circumstances set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, suspend the ability of a unit investment trust to designate the date and time of effectiveness of a series of such trust. Any such suspension, so long as it is in effect, shall apply to any registration statement that has been filed but has not, at the time of such suspension, become effective, and to any registration statement with respect to any series of such trust that may be filed after such suspension. Any suspension shall apply only to the ability to designate the date and time of effectiveness pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section and shall not otherwise affect any registration statement.
(2) Any suspension pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall become effective at such time as the Commission furnishes written notice thereof to the company or the sponsor of the unit investment trust. The notice of such suspension shall be in writing and shall specify the period for which such suspension shall remain in effect. The Commission may issue such suspension if it appears to the Commission that any registration statement containing a designation pursuant to this section is incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, whether or not such registration statement has become effective, or that the registrant has not complied with the conditions of this section. Following such action by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for a hearing is included in the petition.
(d) When ascertaining the date of filing, electronic filers should not presume a registration statement has been accepted until notice of acceptance has been received from the Commission.
[47 FR 20294, May 12, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 14858, Mar. 18, 1993; 59 FR 43467, Aug. 24, 1994; 64 FR 27894, May 21, 1999]
§ 230.488
Effective date of registration statements relating to securities to be issued in certain business combination transactions.
(a) A registration statement filed on Form N-14 by a registered open-end management investment company for the purpose of registering securities to be issued in an exchange offer or other business combination transaction pursuant to Rule 145 under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) shall become effective on the thirtieth day after the date upon which it is filed with the Commission, or such later date designated by the registrant on the facing sheet of the registration statement, which date shall be not later than fifty days after the date on which the registration statement is filed, unless the Commission having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors declares such amendment effective on an earlier date, provided the following conditions are met:
(1) Any prospectus filed as a part of the registration statement does not include disclosure relating to any other proposal to be acted on at a meeting of the shareholders of either company other than proposals related to an exchange offer, or a business combination transaction pursuant to Rule 145(a), and any other proposal relating to:
(i) Uncontested election of directors,
(ii) Ratification of the selection of accountants,
(iii) The continuation of a current advisory contract,
(iv) Increases in the number or amount of shares authorized to be issued by the registrant; and
(v) Continuation of any current contract relating to the distribution of shares issued by the registrant; and
(2) The registration statement recites on the facing sheet that the registrant proposes that the filing become effective pursuant to this rule.
(b) No registration statement shall become effective pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section if, prior to the effective date of the registration statement, it should appear to the Commission that the registration statement may be incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect and the Commission furnishes to the registrant written notice that the effective date is to be suspended. Following such action by the Commission, the registrant may file with the Commission at any time a petition for review of the suspension. The Commission will order a hearing on the matter if a request for such a hearing is included in the petition. If the Commission has suspended the effective date of the registration statement, it shall become effective on such date as the Commission may determine, having due regard to the public interest and the protection of investors.
(c) When ascertaining the date of filing, electronic filers should not presume a registration statement has been accepted until notice of acceptance has been received from the Commission.
[50 FR 48383, Nov. 25, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 14858, Mar. 18, 1993; 59 FR 67761, Dec. 30, 1994]
§ 230.489
Filing of form by foreign banks and insurance companies and certain of their holding companies and finance subsidiaries.
(a) The following foreign issuers shall file Form F-N [17 CFR 239.43] under the Act appointing an agent for service of process when filing a registration statement under the Act:
(1) A foreign issuer that is a foreign bank or foreign insurance company excepted from the definition of investment company by rule 3a-6 (17 CFR 270.3a-6) under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”);
(2) A foreign issuer that is a finance subsidiary of a foreign bank or foreign insurance company, as those terms are defined in rule 3a-6 under the 1940 Act, if the finance subsidiary is excepted from the definition of investment company by rule 3a-5 [17 CFR 270.3a-5] under the 1940 Act; or
(3) A foreign issuer that is excepted from the definition of investment company by rule 3a-1 (17 CFR 270.3a-1)
under the 1940 Act because some or all of its majority-owned subsidiaries are foreign banks or insurance companies excepted from the definition of investment company by rule 3a-6 under the 1940 Act.
(b) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to:
(1) A foreign issuer that has filed Form F-X (17 CFR 239.42) under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the securities being offered; and
(2) A foreign issuer filing a registration statement relating to debt securities or non-voting preferred stock that has on file with the Commission a currently accurate Form N-6C9 (17 CFR 274.304, rescinded) under the 1940 Act.
(c) Six copies of Form F-N, one of which shall be manually signed, shall be filed with the Commission at its principal office.
[56 FR 56299, Nov. 4, 1991]

# registration by foreign governments or political subdivisions thereof

# Source:
Sections 230.490 through 230.494 appear at 12 FR 4076, June 24, 1947, unless otherwise noted.
§ 230.490
Information to be furnished under paragraph (3) of Schedule B.
Any issuer filing a registration statement pursuant to Schedule B of the act need not furnish the detailed information specified in paragraph (3) as to issues of outstanding funded debt the aggregate amount of which outstanding is less than 5 percent of the total funded debt outstanding and to be created by the security to be offered, provided the amount thereof is included in the statement of the total amount of funded debt outstanding and a statement is made as to the title, amount outstanding, rate of interest, and date of maturity of each such issue.
§ 230.491
Information to be furnished under paragraph (6) of Schedule B.
Any foreign government filing a registration statement pursuant to Schedule B of the act need state, in furnishing the information required by paragraph (6), the names and addresses only of principal underwriters, namely, underwriters in privity of contract with the registrant, provided they are designated as principal underwriters and a brief statement is made as to the discounts and commissions to be received by sub-underwriters or dealers.
[84 FR 12721, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 230.492
Omissions from prospectuses.
In the case of a security for which a registration statement conforming to Schedule B is in effect, the following information, contained in the registration statement, may be omitted from any prospectus: Information in answer to paragraph (3) of the Schedule with respect to the amortization and retirement provisions for debt not being registered, and with respect to the provisions for the substitution of security for such debt; the addresses of underwriters in answer to paragraph (6); information in answer to paragraph (11); the addresses of counsel in answer to paragraph (12); the copy of any agreement or agreements required by paragraph (13); the agreement required by paragraph (14); and all information, whether contained in the registration statement itself or in any exhibit thereto, not required by Schedule B.
(Secs. 10(a)(4), 19(a), 48 Stat. 81, 85; sec. 209, 48 Stat. 908; 15 U.S.C. 77(j)(a)(4), 77(s)(a))
[41 FR 12010, Mar. 23, 1976]
§ 230.493
Additional Schedule B disclosure and filing requirements.
(a) The copy of the opinion or opinions of counsel required by paragraph (14) of Schedule B shall be filed either as a part of the registration statement as originally filed, or as an amendment to the registration statement.
(b) A foreign government or political subdivision of a foreign government must file a registration statement submitted under Schedule B of the Act on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System (EDGAR) unless it has obtained a hardship exemption under § 232.201 or § 232.202 of this chapter (Regulation S-T).
(c) A foreign government or political subdivision must disclose in its Schedule B registration statement:
(1) That the Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports and other information regarding
issuers that file electronically with the Commission; and
(2) The address for the Commission Internet site (
http://www.sec.gov
). A foreign government or political subdivision filing on EDGAR is further encouraged to give its Internet address, if available.
[67 FR 36699, May 24, 2002]
§ 230.494
Newspaper prospectuses.
(a) This section shall apply only to newspaper prospectuses relating to securities, as to which a registration statement has become effective, issued by a foreign national government with which the United States maintains diplomatic relations. The term
newspaper prospectus
means an advertisement of securities in newspapers, magazines or other periodicals which are admitted to the mails as second-class matter and which are not distributed by the advertiser. The term does not include reprints, reproductions or detached copies of such advertisements. A newspaper prospectus shall not be deemed a prospectus meeting the requirements of section 10 for the purpose of section 2(10)(a) or 5(b)(2) of the Act.
(b) All information included in a newspaper prospectus may be expressed in such condensed or summarized form as may be necessary in the light of the circumstances under which newspaper prospectuses are authorized to be used. The information need not follow the order in which the information is set forth in the registration statement or in the full prospectus. No information need be set forth in tabular form.
(c) The following statement shall be set forth at the head of every newspaper prospectus in conspicuous print:
These securities, though registered, have not been approved or disapproved by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which does not pass on the merits of any registered securities.
(d) There shall be set forth at the foot of every newspaper prospectus in conspicuous print a statement to the following effect:
Further information, particularly financial information, is contained in the registration statement filed with the Commission and in a more complete prospectus which must be furnished to each purchaser and is obtainable from the following persons:
(Insert names.)
(e) If the registrant or any of the underwriters knows or has reasonable grounds to believe that it is intended to stablize the price of any security to facilitate the offering of the registered security, there shall be placed in the newspaper prospectus, in capital letters, the statement required by Item 502(d) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.502(d) of this chapter) to be included in the full prospectus.
(f) A newspaper prospectus shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (f) (1) to (9) of this section. All other information and documents contained in the registration statement may be omitted. The following information shall be included:
(1) The name of the borrowing government;
(2) A brief description of the securities to be offered;
(3) The price at which it is proposed to offer the security to the public in the United States;
(4) The purpose and approximate amounts to be devoted to such purposes, so far as determinable, for which the security to be offered is to supply funds; and if funds for such purposes are to be raised in part from other sources, the amounts and the sources thereof:
(5) A brief statement as to the amount of funded and floating debt outstanding and to be created, excluding inter-governmental debt;
(6) A condensed or summarized statement of receipt and expenditures for the last three fiscal years for which data are available;
(7) A condensed or summarized statement of the balance of international payments for the last three fiscal years for which data are available;
(8) If the issuer or its predecessor has defaulted on the principal or interest of any external debt, excluding intergovernmental debt, during the last twenty years, the date, amount and circumstances of such default and the general effect of any succeeding arrangement;
(9) Underwriting discounts and commissions per unit and in the aggregate.
(g) A newspaper prospectus may also include, in condensed, summarized or graphic form, additional information
the substance of which is contained in the registration statement. A newspaper prospectus shall not contain any information the substance of which is not set forth in the registration statement.
(h) All information included in a newspaper prospectus shall be set forth in type at least as large as seven-point modern type:
Provided, however,
That such information shall not be so arranged as to be misleading or obscure the information required to be included in such a prospectus.
(i) Five copies of every proposed newspaper prospectus, in the size and form in which it is intended to be published shall be filed with the Commission at least three business days before definitive copies thereof are submitted to the newspaper, magazine or other periodical for publication. Within seven days after publication, five additional copies shall be filed in the exact form in which it was published and shall be accompanied by a statement of the date and manner of its publication.
(Interprets or applies sec. 7, 48 Stat. 78, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 77g; secs. 6, 7, 8, 10, 19(a), 48 Stat. 78, 79, 81, 85, secs. 205, 209, 48 Stat. 906, 908; sec. 301, 54 Stat. 857; sec. 8, 68 Stat. 685; sec. 1, 79 Stat. 1051; sec. 308(a)(2), 90 Stat. 57; secs. 12, 13, 14, 15(d), 23(a), 48 Stat. 892, 895, 901; secs. 1, 3, 8, 49 Stat. 1375, 1377, 1379; sec 203(a), 49 Stat. 704; sec. 202, 68 Stat. 686; secs. 3, 4, 5, 6, 78 Stat. 565-568, 569, 570-574; secs. 1, 2, 3, 82 Stat. 454, 455; secs. 28(c), 1, 2, 3-5, 84 Stat. 1435, 1497; sec. 105(b), 88 Stat. 1503; secs. 8, 9, 10, 18, 89 Stat. 117, 118, 119, 155; sec. 308(b), 90 Stat. 57; secs. 202, 203, 204, 81 Stat. 1494, 1498, 1499, 1500; 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 78l, 78m, 78n, 78o(d), 78w(a))
[16 FR 8820 Aug. 31, 1951, as amended at 19 FR 6729, Oct. 20, 1954; 48 FR 19875, May 3, 1983]
§ 230.495
Preparation of registration statement.
(a) A registration statement on Form N-1A (§ 239.15A and § 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§ 239.14 and § 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§ 239.17a and § 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§ 239.17b and § 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§ 239.17c and § 274.11d of this chapter), shall consist of the facing sheet of the applicable form; a prospectus containing the information called for by such form; the information, list of exhibits, undertakings and signatures required to be set forth in such form; financial statements and schedules; exhibits; and other information or documents filed as part of the registration statement; and all documents or information incorporated by reference in the foregoing (whether or not required to be filed).
(b) All general instructions, instructions to items of the form, and instructions as to financial statements, exhibits, or prospectuses are to be omitted from the registration statement in all cases.
(c) In the case of a registration statement filed on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter), Parts A and B shall contain the information called for by each of the items of the applicable Part, except that unless otherwise specified, no reference need be made to inapplicable items, and negative answers to any item may be omitted. Copies of Parts A and B may be filed as part of the registration statement in lieu of furnishing the information in item-and-answer form. Wherever such copies are filed in lieu of information in item-and-answer form, the text of the items of the form is to be omitted from the registration statement, as well as from Parts A and B, except to the extent provided in paragraph (d) of the section.
(d) In the case of a registration statement filed on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter), where any item of those forms calls for information not required to be included in Parts A and B (generally Part C of such form), the text of such items, including the numbers and captions thereof, together with the answers thereto, shall be filed with Parts A or B under cover of the facing sheet of the form as part of the registration statement. However, the text of such items may be omitted, provided the answers
are so prepared as to indicate the coverage of the item without the necessity of reference to the text of the item. If any such item is inapplicable, or the answer thereto is in the negative, a statement to that effect shall be made. Any financial statements not required to be included in Parts A and B shall also be filed as part of the registration statement proper, unless incorporated by reference pursuant to § 230.411.
(e)
Electronic filings.
When ascertaining the date of filing, electronic filers should not presume a registration statement has been accepted until notice of acceptance has been received from the Commission.
(Securities Act of 1933)
[48 FR 37938, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 26159, June 25, 1985; 57 FR 56834, Dec. 1, 1992; 58 FR 14859, Mar. 18, 1993; 63 FR 13943, Mar. 23, 1998; 64 FR 27894, May 21, 1999; 67 FR 19869, Apr. 23, 2002]
§ 230.496
Contents of prospectus and statement of additional information used after nine months.
In the case of a registration statement filed on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter), there may be omitted from any prospectus or Statement of Additional Information used more than nine months after the effective date of the registration statement any information previously required to be contained in the prospectus or the Statement of Additional Information insofar as later information covering the same subjects, including the latest available certified financial statements, as of a date not more than 16 months prior to the use of the prospectus or the Statement of Additional Information is contained therein.

# Note 1 to § 230.496:
For a discussion of the effectiveness of a registration statement relating to certain discontinued contracts subject to a Commission position as of July 1, 2020, see Investment Company Release No. 33814 (March 11, 2020).
[85 FR 26093, May 1, 2020]
§ 230.497
Filing of investment company or registered non-variable annuity prospectuses—number of copies.
(a) Five copies of every form of prospectus sent or given to any person prior to the effective date of the registration statement that varies from the form or forms of prospectus included in the registration statement filed pursuant to § 230.402(a) shall be filed as part of the registration statement not later than the date that form of prospectus is first sent or given to any person, except that an investment company advertisement under § 230.482 shall be filed under this paragraph (a) (but not as part of the registration statement) unless filed under paragraph (i) of this section.
(b) For unit investment trusts filing on § 274.12 of this chapter (Form N-8B-2) or § 239.16 of this chapter (Form S-6), within five days after the effective date of a registration statement or the commencement of a public offering after the effective date of a registration statement, whichever occurs later, 10 copies of each form of prospectus used after the effective date in connection with such offering shall be filed with the Commission in the exact form in which it was used. A registrant must submit an Interactive Data File (as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter) if required by the form on which it files its registration statement.
(c) For investment companies filing on §§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter (Form N-1A), §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3), §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4), or §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6), or an offering of registered non-variable annuities being filed on Form N-4, within five days after the effective date of a registration statement or the commencement of a public offering after the effective date of a registration statement, whichever occurs later, 10 copies of each form of prospectus and form of Statement of Additional Information used after the effective date in connection with such offering shall be filed with the Commission in the exact form in which it was used. Investment companies filing on Forms N-1A, N-3, N-4, or N-6 and issuers of registered non-variable annuities filing
on Form N-4 must, if applicable pursuant to General Instruction C.3.(g) of Form N-1A, General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-3, General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4, or General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6, submit an Interactive Data File (as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter).
(d) After the effective date of a registration statement no prospectus which purports to comply with section 10 of the Act and which varies from any form of prospectus filed pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall be used until 10 copies thereof have been filed with, or mailed for filing to, the Commission. A registrant must submit an Interactive Data File (as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter) if required by the Form on which it files its registration statement.
(e) For investment companies filing on §§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter (Form N-1A), §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3), §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4), or §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6), or an offering of registered non-variable annuities being filed on Form N-4, after the effective date of a registration statement, no prospectus that purports to comply with Section 10 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j) or Statement of Additional Information that varies from any form of prospectus or form of Statement of Additional Information filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall be used until five copies thereof have been filed with, or mailed for filing to the Commission. Investment companies filing on Forms N-1A, N-3, N-4, or N-6 and issuers of registered non-variable annuities filing on Form N-4 must, if applicable pursuant to General Instruction C.3.(g) of Form N-1A, General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-3, General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4, or General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6, submit an Interactive Data File (as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter).
(f) Every prospectus consisting of a radio or television broadcast shall be reduced in writing. Five copies of every such prospectus shall be filed with the Commission in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(g) Each copy of a prospectus under this rule shall contain in the upper right hand corner of the cover page the paragraph of this rule under which the filing is made and the file number of the registration statement to which the prospectus relates. In addition, each investment company advertisement deemed to be a section 10(b) prospectus pursuant to § 230.482 of this chapter shall contain in the upper right hand corner of the cover page the legend “Rule 482 ad.” The information required by this paragraph may be set forth in longhand, provided it is legible.
(h) No later than the second business day following the earlier of the date of the determination of the offering price or the date it is first used after effectiveness in connection with a public offering or sales, ten copies of every form of prospectus and Statement of Additional Information, where applicable, that discloses the information previously omitted from the prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Securities Act (§ 230.430A of this chapter) shall be filed with the Commission in the exact form in which it is used, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date.
(i) An investment company advertisement deemed to be a section 10(b) prospectus pursuant to § 230.482 of this chapter shall be considered to be filed with the Commission upon filing with a national securities association registered under Section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
o
) that has adopted rules providing standards for the investment company advertising practices of its members and has established and implemented procedures to review that advertising.
(j) In lieu of filing under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, a registrant may file a certification that:
(1) The form of prospectus and Statement of Additional Information that would have been filed under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section would not have differed from that contained in the most recent registration statement or amendment, and
(2) The text of the most recent registration statement or amendment has been filed electronically.
(k)
Summary prospectus filing requirements
. This paragraph (k), and not the other provisions of this section, shall govern the filing of summary prospectuses under §§ 230.498 and 230.498A. Each definitive form of a summary prospectus under §§ 230.498 and 230.498A shall be filed with the Commission no later than the date that it is first used.
(l) Except for an investment company advertisement deemed to be a section 10(b) prospectus pursuant to § 230.482, this section shall not apply with respect to prospectuses of a registered closed-end investment company, or a business development company.
[48 FR 37939, Aug. 22, 1983]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 230.497, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 230.498
Summary Prospectuses for open-end management investment companies.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Class
means a class of shares issued by a Fund that has more than one class that represent interests in the same portfolio of securities under § 270.18f-3 of this chapter or under an order exempting the Fund from sections 18(f), 18(g), and 18(i) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-18(f), 80a-18(g), and 80a-18(i)).
(2)
Exchange-Traded Fund
means a Fund or a Class, the shares of which are traded on a national securities exchange, and that has formed and operates pursuant to an exemptive order granted by the Commission or in reliance on an exemptive rule adopted by the Commission.
(3)
Fund
means an open-end management investment company, or any Series of such a company, that has, or is included in, an effective registration statement on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter) and that has a current prospectus that satisfies the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)).
(4)
Series
means shares offered by a Fund that represent undivided interests in a portfolio of investments and that are preferred over all other series of shares for assets specifically allocated to that series in accordance with § 270.18f-2(a) of this chapter.
(5)
Statement of Additional Information
means the statement of additional information required by Part B of Form N-1A.
(6)
Statutory Prospectus
means a prospectus that satisfies the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act.
(7)
Summary Prospectus
means the summary prospectus described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
General requirements for Summary Prospectus.
This paragraph describes the requirements for a Fund's Summary Prospectus. A Summary Prospectus that complies with this paragraph (b) will be deemed to be a prospectus that is authorized under section 10(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(b)) and section 24(g) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(g)) for the purposes of section 5(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(1)).
(1)
Cover page or beginning of Summary Prospectus.
Include on the cover page of the Summary Prospectus or at the beginning of the Summary Prospectus:
(i) The Fund's name and the Class or Classes, if any, to which the Summary Prospectus relates.
(ii) The exchange ticker symbol of the Fund's shares or, if the Summary Prospectus relates to one or more Classes of the Fund's shares, adjacent to each such Class, the exchange ticker symbol of such Class of the Fund's shares. If the Fund is an Exchange-Traded Fund, also identify the principal U.S. market or markets on which the Fund shares are traded.
(iii) A statement identifying the document as a “Summary Prospectus.”
(iv) The approximate date of the Summary Prospectus's first use.
(v) The following legend:
Before you invest, you may want to review the Fund's prospectus, which contains more information about the Fund and its risks. You can find the Fund's prospectus, reports to shareholders, and other information about the Fund online at [______]. You can also get this information at no cost by calling [______] or by sending an email request to [______].
(A) The legend must provide a website address, other than the address
of the Commission's electronic filing system; toll free (or collect) telephone number; and email address that investors can use to obtain the Statutory Prospectus and other information. The website address must be specific enough to lead investors directly to the Statutory Prospectus and other materials that are required to be accessible under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, rather than to the home page or other section of the website on which the materials are posted. The website could be a central site with prominent links to each document. The legend may indicate, if applicable, that the Statutory Prospectus and other information are available from a financial intermediary (such as a broker-dealer or bank) through which shares of the Fund may be purchased or sold. If a Fund relies on § 270.30e-3 of this chapter to transmit a report, the legend must also include the website address required by § 270.30e-3(c)(1)(iii) of this chapter if different from the website address required by this paragraph (b)(1)(v)(A).
(B) If a Fund incorporates any information by reference into the Summary Prospectus, the legend must identify the type of document (
e.g.,
Statutory Prospectus) from which the information is incorporated and the date of the document. If a Fund incorporates by reference a part of a document, the legend must clearly identify the part by page, paragraph, caption, or otherwise. If information is incorporated from a source other than the Statutory Prospectus, the legend must explain that the incorporated information may be obtained, free of charge, in the same manner as the Statutory Prospectus. A Fund may modify the legend to include a statement to the effect that the Summary Prospectus is intended for use in connection with a defined contribution plan that meets the requirements for qualification under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 401(k)), a tax-deferred arrangement under section 403(b) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 403(b) or 457), or a variable contract as defined in section 817(d) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 817(d)), as applicable, and is not intended for use by other investors.
(vi) The Summary Prospectus may provide instructions describing how a shareholder can elect to receive prospectuses or other documents and communications by electronic delivery.
(2)
Contents of the Summary Prospectus.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b), provide the information required or permitted by Items 2 through 8 of Form N-1A, and only that information, in the order required by the form. A Summary Prospectus may omit the explanation and information required by Instruction 2(c) to Item 4(b)(2) of Form N-1A.
(3)
Incorporation by reference.
(i) Except as provided by paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, information may not be incorporated by reference into a Summary Prospectus. Information that is incorporated by reference into a Summary Prospectus in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section need not be sent or given with the Summary Prospectus.
(ii) A Fund may incorporate by reference into a Summary Prospectus any or all of the information contained in the Fund's Statutory Prospectus and Statement of Additional Information, and any information from the Fund's reports to shareholders under § 270.30e-1 that the Fund has incorporated by reference into the Fund's Statutory Prospectus, provided that:
(A) The conditions of paragraphs (b)(1)(v)(B) and (e) of this section are met;
(B) A Fund may not incorporate by reference into a Summary Prospectus information that paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section require to be included in the Summary Prospectus; and
(C) Information that is permitted to be incorporated by reference into the Summary Prospectus may be incorporated by reference into the Summary Prospectus only by reference to the specific document that contains the information, not by reference to another document that incorporates such information by reference.
(iii) For purposes of § 230.159, information is conveyed to a person not later than the time that a Summary Prospectus is received by the person if the
information is incorporated by reference into the Summary Prospectus in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(4)
Multiple Funds and Classes.
A Summary Prospectus may describe only one Fund, but may describe more than one Class of a Fund.
(c)
Transfer of the security.
Any obligation under section 5(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(2)) to have a Statutory Prospectus precede or accompany the carrying or delivery of a Fund security in an offering registered on Form N-1A is satisfied if:
(1) A Summary Prospectus is sent or given no later than the time of the carrying or delivery of the Fund security;
(2) The Summary Prospectus is not bound together with any materials, except that a Summary Prospectus for a Fund that is available as an investment option in a variable annuity or variable life insurance contract may be bound together with the Statutory Prospectus for the contract (or a summary prospectus for the contract provided under § 230.498A) and Summary Prospectuses and Statutory Prospectuses for other investment options available in the contract, provided that:
(i) All of the Funds to which the Summary Prospectuses and Statutory Prospectuses that are bound together relate are available to the person to whom such documents are sent or given; and
(ii) A table of contents identifying each Summary Prospectus, Statutory Prospectus, and summary prospectus under § 230.498A that is bound together, and the page number on which it is found, is included at the beginning or immediately following a cover page of the bound materials;
(3) The Summary Prospectus that is sent or given satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section at the time of the carrying or delivery of the Fund security; and
(4) The conditions set forth in paragraph (e) of this section are satisfied.
(d)
Sending communications.
A communication relating to an offering registered on Form N-1A sent or given after the effective date of a Fund's registration statement (other than a prospectus permitted or required under section 10 of the Act) shall not be deemed a prospectus under section 2(a)(10) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(10)) if:
(1) It is proved that prior to or at the same time with such communication a Summary Prospectus was sent or given to the person to whom the communication was made;
(2) The Summary Prospectus is not bound together with any materials, except as permitted by paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(3) The Summary Prospectus that was sent or given satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section at the time of such communication; and
(4) The conditions set forth in paragraph (e) of this section are satisfied.
(e)
Availability of Fund's Statutory Prospectus and certain other Fund documents.
(1) The Fund's current Summary Prospectus, Statutory Prospectus, Statement of Additional Information, and most recent annual and semi-annual reports to shareholders under § 270.30e-1 are publicly accessible, free of charge, at the Web site address specified on the cover page or at the beginning of the Summary Prospectus on or before the time that the Summary Prospectus is sent or given and current versions of those documents remain on the Web site through the date that is at least 90 days after:
(i) In the case of reliance on paragraph (c) of this section, the date that the Fund security is carried or delivered; or
(ii) In the case of reliance on paragraph (d) of this section, the date that the communication is sent or given.
(2) The materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be presented on the Web site in a format, or formats, that:
(i) Are human-readable and capable of being printed on paper in human-readable format;
(ii) Permit persons accessing the Statutory Prospectus or Statement of Additional Information to move directly back and forth between each section heading in a table of contents of such document and the section of the document referenced in that section heading; provided that, in the case of the Statutory Prospectus, the table of
contents is either required by § 230.481(c) or contains the same section headings as the table of contents required by § 230.481(c); and
(iii) Permit persons accessing the Summary Prospectus to move directly back and forth between:
(A) Each section of the Summary Prospectus and any section of the Statutory Prospectus and Statement of Additional Information that provides additional detail concerning that section of the Summary Prospectus; or
(B) Links located at both the beginning and end of the Summary Prospectus, or that remain continuously visible to persons accessing the Summary Prospectus, and tables of contents of both the Statutory Prospectus and the Statement of Additional Information that meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3) Persons accessing the materials specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be able to permanently retain, free of charge, an electronic version of such materials in a format, or formats, that meet each of the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(4) The conditions set forth in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of this section shall be deemed to be met, notwithstanding the fact that the materials specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are not available for a time in the manner required by paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of this section, provided that:
(i) The Fund has reasonable procedures in place to ensure that the specified materials are available in the manner required by paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of this section; and
(ii) The Fund takes prompt action to ensure that the specified documents become available in the manner required by paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of this section, as soon as practicable following the earlier of the time at which it knows or reasonably should have known that the documents are not available in the manner required by paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) of this section.
(f)
Other requirements
—(1)
Delivery upon request.
If paragraph (c) or (d) of this section is relied on with respect to a Fund, the Fund (or a financial intermediary through which shares of the Fund may be purchased or sold) must send, at no cost to the requestor and by U.S. first class mail or other reasonably prompt means, a paper copy of the Fund's Statutory Prospectus, Statement of Additional Information, and most recent annual and semi-annual reports to shareholders to any person requesting such a copy within three business days after receiving a request for a paper copy. If paragraph (c) or (d) of this section is relied on with respect to a Fund, the Fund (or a financial intermediary through which shares of the Fund may be purchased or sold) must send, at no cost to the requestor and by e-mail, an electronic copy of the Fund's Statutory Prospectus, Statement of Additional Information, and most recent annual and semi-annual reports to shareholders to any person requesting such a copy within three business days after receiving a request for an electronic copy. The requirement to send an electronic copy of a document by e-mail may be satisfied by sending a direct link to the document on the Internet; provided that a current version of the document is directly accessible through the link from the time that the e-mail is sent through the date that is six months after the date that the e-mail is sent and the e-mail explains both how long the link will remain useable and that, if the recipient desires to retain a copy of the document, he or she should access and save the document.
(2)
Greater prominence.
If paragraph (c) or (d) of this section is relied on with respect to a Fund, the Fund's Summary Prospectus shall be given greater prominence than any materials that accompany the Fund's Summary Prospectus, with the exception of other Summary Prospectuses, Statutory Prospectuses, a Notice under § 270.30e-3 of this chapter, or a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials under § 240.14a-16 of this chapter.
(3)
Convenient for reading and printing.
If paragraph (c) or (d) of this section is relied on with respect to a Fund:
(i) The materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be presented on the Web site in a format, or formats, that
are convenient for both reading online and printing on paper; and
(ii) Persons accessing the materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be able to permanently retain, free of charge, an electronic version of such materials in a format, or formats, that are convenient for both reading online and printing on paper.
(4)
Information in Summary Prospectus must be the same as information in Statutory Prospectus.
If paragraph (c) or (d) of this section is relied on with respect to a Fund, the information provided in response to Items 2 through 8 of Form N-1A in the Fund's Summary Prospectus must be the same as the information provided in response to Items 2 through 8 of Form N-1A in the Fund's Statutory Prospectus except as expressly permitted by paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(5)
Compliance with paragraph (f) not a condition to reliance on paragraphs (c) and (d).
Compliance with this paragraph (f) is not a condition to the ability to rely on paragraph (c) or (d) of this section with respect to a Fund, and failure to comply with paragraph (f) does not negate the ability to rely on paragraph (c) or (d).
[74 FR 4585, Jan. 26, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 9081, Feb. 26, 2010; 83 FR 29204, June 22, 2018; 85 FR 26094, May 1, 2020; 88 FR 17710, Mar. 24, 2023]
§ 230.498A
Summary prospectuses for separate accounts offering variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts and for offering registered non-variable annuity contracts.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Class
means a class of a Contract that varies principally with respect to distribution-related fees and expenses.
Contract
means a Variable Annuity Contract, a Variable Life Insurance Contract, a RILA Contract, or a Registered Market Value Adjustment Annuity Contract as defined in this section, respectively, as well as any Contract that offers a combination of Index-Linked Options, Variable Options, and/or Fixed Options (including Fixed Options subject to a Contract Adjustment).
Contract Adjustment
means a positive or negative adjustment made to the value of the Contract by the Insurance Company if amounts are withdrawn from an Investment Option or from the Contract before the end of a specified period. This adjustment may be based on calculations using a predetermined formula, or a change in interest rates, or some other factor or benchmark.
Fixed Option
means an Investment Option under a Contract pursuant to which the value of the Contract (for a Form N-3 or Form N-4 Registrant, either during an accumulation period or after annuitization, or both) will earn interest at a rate specified by the Company, subject to a minimum guaranteed rate under the Contract. The term Fixed Option includes Fixed Options that are subject to a Contract Adjustment.
Index-Linked Option
means an Investment Option offered under a Contract, pursuant to which the value of the Contract, either during an accumulation period or after annuitization, or both, will earn positive or negative interest based, in part, on the performance of a specified index, rate, or benchmark (such as a registered exchange-traded fund that tracks an index).
Initial Summary Prospectus
means the initial summary prospectus described in paragraph (b) of this section.
Insurance Company
means the insurance company issuing the Contract, which company is subject to State supervision. The Insurance Company may also be the depositor or sponsor of any Registered Separate Account in which the Contract participates.
Investment Option
means a Fixed Option, an Index-Linked Option, and/or a Variable Option, as applicable.
Portfolio Company
means any company in which a Registrant on Form N-4 or Form N-6 invests and which may be selected as a Variable Option by the investor.
Portfolio Company Prospectus
means the Statutory Prospectus of a Portfolio Company and a summary prospectus of a Portfolio Company permitted by § 230.498.
Registered Market Value Adjustment Annuity Contract
means a registered
market value adjustment annuity contract, any portion thereof, or any unit of interest or participation therein, issued by an Insurance Company.
Registered Separate Account
means a separate account (as defined in section 2(a)(14) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(14)) that has an effective registration statement on §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3), §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4), or §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6) and that has a current prospectus that satisfies the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)).
Registrant
means, as applicable, a Registered Separate Account or the Insurance Company.
RILA Contract
means any registered index-linked annuity contract, any portion thereof, or any unit of interest or participation therein, issued by an Insurance Company, that offers Index-Linked Options.
Statement of Additional Information
means the statement of additional information required by Part B of Form N-1A, Form N-3, Form N-4, or Form N-6.
Statutory Prospectus
means a prospectus that satisfies the requirements of section 10(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)).
Summary Prospectus
refers to both the Initial Summary Prospectus and the Updating Summary Prospectus.
Updating Summary Prospectus
means the updating summary prospectus described in paragraph (c) of this section.
Variable Annuity Contract
means any accumulation contract or annuity contract, any portion thereof, or any unit of interest or participation therein, issued by an Insurance Company, pursuant to which the value of the contract, either during an accumulation period or after annuitization, or both, varies according to the investment experience of a Portfolio Company.
Variable Life Insurance Contract
means a life insurance contract, issued by an Insurance Company, that provides for death benefits and cash values that may vary with the investment performance of any separate account.
Variable Option
means:
(i) In the context of a Registrant on Form N-4 or Form N-6, an Investment Option under any Contract pursuant to which the value of the Contract (for a Form N-4 Registrant, either during an accumulation period or after annuitization, or both) varies according to the investment experience of a Portfolio Company;
(ii) In the context of a Registrant on Form N-3, any portfolio of investments in which a Registrant on Form N-3 invests and which may be selected as an option by the investor.
(b)
General Requirements for Initial Summary Prospectus.
An Initial Summary Prospectus that complies with this paragraph (b) will be deemed to be a prospectus that is authorized under section 10(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(b)) and section 24(g) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(g)) for the purposes of section 5(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(1)).
(1)
Scope of Initial Summary Prospectus.
An Initial Summary Prospectus may only describe a single Contract (but may describe more than one Class of the Contract) currently offered by the Registrant under the Statutory Prospectus to which the Initial Summary Prospectus relates.
(2)
Cover Page or Beginning of Initial Summary Prospectus.
Include on the front cover page or the beginning of the Initial Summary Prospectus:
(i) The Insurance Company's name;
(ii) The name of the Contract, and the Class or Classes if any, to which the Initial Summary Prospectus relates;
(iii) A statement identifying the document as a “Summary Prospectus for New Investors”;
(iv) The approximate date of the first use of the Initial Summary Prospectus;
(v) The following legend, which for Initial Summary Prospectuses of Contracts registered on Form N-4 would be included along with the statements described in Item 1(a)(6) through (8) of Form N-4:
This Summary Prospectus summarizes key features of the [Contract].
Before you invest, you should also review the prospectus for the [Contract], which contains more information about the [Contract's] features, benefits, and risks. You can find this document and other information about the [Contract] online at [___]. You can also obtain this information at no cost
by calling [___] or by sending an email request to [___].
You may cancel your [Contract] within 10 days of receiving it without paying fees or penalties [although we will apply the Contract Adjustment]. In some States, this cancellation period may be longer. Upon cancellation, you will receive either a full refund of the amount you paid with your application or your total contract value. You should review the prospectus, or consult with your investment professional, for additional information about the specific cancellation terms that apply.
Additional information about certain investment products, including [type of Contract], has been prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission's staff and is available at
Investor.gov.
(A) A Registrant may modify the legend so long as the modified legend contains comparable information.
(B) The legend must provide a website address, other than the address of the Commission's electronic filing system; toll-free telephone number; and email address that investors can use to obtain the Statutory Prospectus and other materials, request other information about the Contract, and make investor inquiries. The website address must be specific enough to lead investors directly to the Statutory Prospectus and other materials that are required to be accessible under paragraph (h)(1) of this section, rather than to the home page or other section of the website on which the materials are posted. The website could be a central site with prominent links to each document. The legend may indicate, if applicable, that the Statutory Prospectus and other information are available from a financial intermediary (such as a broker-dealer) through which the Contract may be purchased or sold. If a Registered Separate Account that has an effective registration statement on Form N-3 relies on § 270.30e-3 of this chapter to transmit a report, the legend must also include the website address required by § 270.30e-3(c)(1)(iii) of this chapter if different from the website address required by this paragraph (b)(2)(v)(B).
(C) The paragraph of the legend regarding cancellation of the Contract may be omitted if not applicable. If this paragraph is included in the legend, the paragraph must be presented in a manner reasonably calculated to draw investor attention to that paragraph.
(D) The legend may include instructions describing how a shareholder can elect to receive prospectuses or other documents and communications by electronic delivery.
(vi) For a RILA Contract and any Contract that offers Index-Linked Options along with other Investment Options, the statement required by rule 481(b)(1) under the Securities Act [17 CFR 230.481(b)(1)].
(3)
Back Cover Page or Last Page of Initial Summary Prospectus.
(i) If a Registrant incorporates any information by reference into the Summary Prospectus, include a legend identifying the type of document (
e.g.,
Statutory Prospectus) from which the information is incorporated and the date of the document. If a Registrant incorporates by reference a part of a document, the legend must clearly identify the part by page, paragraph, caption, or otherwise. If information is incorporated from a source other than the Statutory Prospectus, the legend must explain that the incorporated information may be obtained, free of charge, in the same manner as the Statutory Prospectus.
(ii) Include on the bottom of the back cover page or the last page of the Initial Summary Prospectus the EDGAR contract identifier for the contract in type size smaller than that generally used in the prospectus (
e.g.,
8-point modern type).
(4)
Table of Contents.
An Initial Summary Prospectus may include a table of contents meeting the requirements of § 230.481(c).
(5)
Contents of Initial Summary Prospectus.
An Initial Summary Prospectus must contain the information required by this paragraph (b)(5) with respect to the applicable registration form, and only the information required by this paragraph (b)(5), in the order provided in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section, except that, for an Initial Summary Prospectus related to a Contract registered on Form N-4, provide the information provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) before the information provided by paragraph (b)(5)(i).
(i) Under the heading “Important Information You Should Consider About
the [Contract],” the information required by Item 2 of Form N-3, Item 3 of Form N-4, or Item 2 of Form N-6.
(ii) Under the heading “Overview of the [Contract],” the information required by Item 3 of Form N-3, Item 2 of Form N-4, or Item 3 of Form N-6.
(iii) Under the heading “Standard Death Benefits,” the information required by Item 10(a) of Form N-6.
(iv) Under the heading “Benefits Available Under the [Contract],” the information required by Item 11(a) of Form N-3 or Item 10(a) of Form N-4. Under the heading “Other Benefits Available Under the [Contract],” the information required by Item 11(a) of Form N-6.
(v) Under the heading “Buying the [Contract],” the information required by Item 12(a) of Form N-3, Item 11(a) of Form N-4, or Item 9(a) through (c) of Form N-6.
(vi) Under the heading “How Your [Contract] Can Lapse,” the information required by Item 14(a) through (c) of Form N-6.
(vii) Under the heading “Making Withdrawals: Accessing the Money in Your [Contract],” the information required by Item 13(a) of Form N-3, Item 12(a) of Form N-4, or Item 12(a) of Form N-6.
(viii) Under the heading “Additional Information About Fees,” the information required by Item 4 of Form N-3, Item 4 of Form N-4, or Item 4 of Form N-6.
(ix) Under the heading “Appendix: [Portfolio Companies][Investment Options] Available Under the Contract,” include as an appendix the information required by Item 18 of Form N-3, Item 17 of Form N-4, or Item 18 of Form N-6. Alternatively, an Initial Summary Prospectus for a Contract registered on Form N-3 may include the information required by Item 19 of Form N-3, under the heading “Additional Information About Investment Options Available Under the Contract.”
(c)
General Requirements for Updating Summary Prospectus.
An Updating Summary Prospectus that complies with this paragraph (c) will be deemed to be a prospectus that is authorized under section 10(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(b)) and section 24(g) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(g)) for the purposes of section 5(b)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(1)).
(1)
Use of Updating Summary Prospectus.
A Registrant may only use an Updating Summary Prospectus if the Registrant uses an Initial Summary Prospectus for each currently offered Contract described under the Statutory Prospectus to which the Updating Summary Prospectus relates.
(2)
Scope of Updating Summary Prospectus.
An Updating Summary Prospectus may describe one or more Contracts (and more than one Class) described under the Statutory Prospectus to which the Updating Summary Prospectus relates.
(3)
Cover Page or Beginning of Updating Summary Prospectus.
Include on the front cover page or at the beginning of the Updating Summary Prospectus:
(i) The Insurance Company's name;
(ii) The name of the Contract(s) and the Class or Classes, if any, to which the Updating Summary Prospectus relates;
(iii) A statement identifying the document as an “Updating Summary Prospectus”;
(iv) The approximate date of the first use of the Updating Summary Prospectus; and
(v) The following legend, which must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(v)(A), (B), and (D) of this section, as applicable, and for Updating Summary Prospectuses of Contracts registered on Form N-4 would be included along with the statements described in Item 1(a)(6) through (8) of Form N-4:
The prospectus for the [Contract] contains more information about the [Contract], including its features, benefits, and risks. You can find the current prospectus and other information about the [Contract] online at [___]. You can also obtain this information at no cost by calling [___] or by sending an email request to [___].
Additional information about certain investment products, including [type of Contract], has been prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission's staff and is available at
Investor.gov.
(vi) For a RILA Contract and any Contract that offers Index-Linked Options along with other Investment Options, the statement required by rule 481(b)(1) under the Securities Act [17 CFR 230.481(b)(1)].
(4)
Back Cover Page or Last Page of Updating Summary Prospectus.
Include
on the bottom of the back cover page or the last page of the Updating Summary Prospectus:
(i) The legend required by paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section; and
(ii) The EDGAR contract identifier(s) for each contract in type size smaller than that generally used in the prospectus (
e.g.,
8-point modern type).
(5)
Table of Contents.
An Updating Summary Prospectus may include a table of contents meeting the requirements of § 230.481(c).
(6)
Contents of Updating Summary Prospectus.
An Updating Summary Prospectus must contain the information required by this paragraph (c)(6) with respect to the applicable registration form, in the order provided in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) If any changes have been made with respect to the Contract after the date of the most recent Updating Summary Prospectus or Statutory Prospectus that was sent or given to investors with respect to the availability of Investment Options (for Registrants on Form N-3 and Form N-4) or Portfolio Companies (for Registrants on Form N-6) under the Contract (including, for RILA Contracts, a change to any of the features of the Index-Linked Options disclosed in the table that Item 17(b)(1) of Form N-4 requires, and for Contracts that offer Fixed Options, a change to any of the features of the Fixed Options disclosed in the table that Item 17(c) of Form N-4 requires), or the disclosure that the Registrant included in response to Item 2 (Key Information), Item 3 (Overview of the Contract), Item 4 (Fee Table), Item 11 (Benefits Available Under the Contract), Item 12 (Purchases and Contract Value), or Item 13 (Surrenders and Withdrawals) of Form N-3; Item 2 (Overview of the Contract), Item 3 (Key Information), Item 4 (Fee Table), Item 10 (Benefits Available Under the Contract), Item 11 (Purchases and Contract Value), or Item 12 (Surrenders and Withdrawals) of Form N-4; and Item 2 (Key Information), Item 3 (Overview of the Contract), Item 4 (Fee Table), Item 9 (Premiums), Item 10 (Standard Death Benefits), Item 11 (Other Benefits Available Under the Contract), Item 12 (Surrenders and Withdrawals), or Item 14 (Lapse and Reinstatement) of Form N-6, include the following as applicable, under the heading “Updated Information About Your [Contract]”:
(A) The following legend: “The information in this Updating Summary Prospectus is a summary of certain [Contract] features that have changed since the Updating Summary Prospectus dated [date]. This may not reflect all of the changes that have occurred since you entered into your [Contract].”
(B) As applicable, provide a concise description of each change specified in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section. Provide enough detail to allow investors to understand the change and how it will affect investors, including indicating whether the change only applies to certain Contracts described in the Updating Summary Prospectus.
(ii) In addition to the changes specified in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, a Registrant may provide a concise description of any other information relevant to the Contract within the time period that paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section specifies, under the heading “Updated Information About Your [Contract].” Any additional information included pursuant to this paragraph (c)(6)(ii) should not, by its nature, quantity, or manner of presentation, obscure or impede understanding of the information that paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section requires.
(iii) Under the heading “Important Information You Should Consider About the [Contract],” provide the information required by Item 2 of Form N-3, Item 3 of Form N-4, or Item 2 of Form N-6.
(iv) Under the heading “Appendix: [Portfolio Companies][Investment Options] Available Under the [Contract],” include as an appendix the information required by Item 18 of Form N-3, Item 17 of Form N-4, or Item 18 of Form N-6. Alternatively, an Updating Summary Prospectus for a Contract registered on Form N-3 may include, under the heading “Additional Information About [Investment Options] Available Under the [Contract],” the information required by Item 19 of Form N-3.
(d)
Incorporation by Reference into a Summary Prospectus.
(1) Except as provided by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, information may not be incorporated by reference into a Summary Prospectus. Information that is incorporated by reference into a Summary Prospectus in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section need not be sent or given with the Summary Prospectus.
(2) A Registrant may incorporate by reference into a Summary Prospectus any or all of the information contained in the Registrant's Statutory Prospectus and Statement of Additional Information, and any information from the Registrant's reports under § 270.30e-1 of this chapter that the Registrant has incorporated by reference into the Registrant's Statutory Prospectus, provided that:
(i) The conditions of paragraphs (b)(2)(v)(B), (c)(3)(v), and (h) of this section are met;
(ii) A Registrant may not incorporate by reference into a Summary Prospectus information that paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section require to be included in an Initial Summary Prospectus or Updating Summary Prospectus, respectively; and
(iii) Information that is permitted to be incorporated by reference into the Summary Prospectus may be incorporated by reference into the Summary Prospectus only by reference to the specific document that contains the information, not by reference to another document that incorporates such information by reference.
(3) For purposes of § 230.159, information is conveyed to a person not later than the time that a Summary Prospectus is received by the person if the information is incorporated by reference into the Summary Prospectus in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Terms used in the Summary Prospectus.
Define special terms used in the Initial Summary Prospectus and Updating Summary Prospectus using any presentation style that clearly conveys their meaning to investors, such as the use of a glossary or list of definitions.
(f)
Transfer of the Contract Security.
Any obligation under section 5(b)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e(b)(2)) to have a Statutory Prospectus precede or accompany the carrying or delivery of a Contract security in an offering registered on Form N-3, Form N-4, or Form N-6 is satisfied if:
(1) A Summary Prospectus is sent or given no later than the time of the carrying or delivery of the Contract security (an Initial Summary Prospectus in the case of a purchase of a new Contract, or an Updating Summary Prospectus in the case of additional purchase payments in an existing Contract);
(2) The Summary Prospectus is not bound together with any materials except Portfolio Company Prospectuses for Portfolio Companies available as Variable Options under the Contract, provided that:
(i) All of the Portfolio Companies are available as investment options to the person to whom such documents are sent or given; and
(ii) A table of contents identifying each Portfolio Company Prospectus that is bound together, and the page number on which each document is found, is included at the beginning or immediately following a cover page of the bound materials.
(3) The Summary Prospectus that is sent or given satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable, at the time of the carrying or delivery of the Contract security; and
(4) The conditions set forth in paragraph (h) of this section are satisfied.
(g)
Sending Communications.
A communication relating to an offering registered on Form N-3, Form N-4, or Form N-6 sent or given after the effective date of a Contract's registration statement (other than a prospectus permitted or required under section 10 of the Act) shall not be deemed a prospectus under section 2(a)(10) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(10)) if:
(1) It is proved that prior to or at the same time with such communication a Summary Prospectus was sent or given to the person to whom the communication was made;
(2) The Summary Prospectus is not bound together with any materials, except as permitted by paragraph (f)(2) of this section;
(3) The Summary Prospectus that was sent or given satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable, at the time of such communication; and
(4) The conditions set forth in paragraph (h) of this section are satisfied.
(h)
Availability of the Statutory Prospectus and Certain Other Documents.
(1) The current Initial Summary Prospectus, Updating Summary Prospectus, Statutory Prospectus, Statement of Additional Information, and in the case of a Registrant on Form N-3, the Registrant's most recent annual and semi-annual reports to shareholders under § 270.30e-1 of this chapter, are publicly accessible, free of charge, at the website address specified on the cover page or beginning of the Summary Prospectuses, on or before the time that the Summary Prospectuses are sent or given and current versions of those documents remain on the website through the date that is at least 90 days after:
(i) In the case of reliance on paragraph (f) of this section, the date that the Contract security is carried or delivered; or
(ii) In the case of reliance on paragraph (g) of this section, the date that the communication is sent or given.
(2) The materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be presented on the website in a format, or formats, that:
(i) Are human-readable and capable of being printed on paper in human-readable format;
(ii) Permit persons accessing the Statutory Prospectus or Statement of Additional Information for the Contract to move directly back and forth between each section heading in a table of contents of such document and the section of the document referenced in that section heading; provided that, in the case of the Statutory Prospectus, the table of contents is either required by § 230.481(c) or contains the same section headings as the table of contents required by § 230.481(c); and
(iii) Permit persons accessing a Summary Prospectus to move directly back and forth between:
(A) Each section of the Summary Prospectus and any section of the Statutory Prospectus and Contract Statement of Additional Information that provides additional detail concerning that section of the Summary Prospectus; or
(B) Links located at both the beginning and end of the Summary Prospectus, or that remain continuously visible to persons accessing the Summary Prospectus, and tables of contents of both the Statutory Prospectus and the Contract Statement of Additional Information that meet the requirements of paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iv) Permit persons accessing the Summary Prospectus to view the definition of each special term used in the Summary Prospectus (as required by paragraph (e) of this section) upon command (
e.g.,
by moving or “hovering” the computer's pointer or mouse over the term, or selecting the term on a mobile device); or permits persons accessing the Contract Summary Prospectus to move directly back and forth between each special term and the corresponding entry in any glossary or list of definitions in the Contract Summary Prospectus (as described in paragraph (e) of this section).
(3) Persons accessing the materials specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be able to permanently retain, free of charge, an electronic version of such materials in a format, or formats, that meet each of the requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(4) The conditions set forth in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section shall be deemed to be met, notwithstanding the fact that the materials specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are not available for a time in the manner required by paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section, provided that:
(i) The Registrant has reasonable procedures in place to ensure that the specified materials are available in the manner required by paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section; and
(ii) The Registrant takes prompt action to ensure that the specified documents become available in the manner required by paragraphs (h) through (3) of this section, as soon as practicable following the earlier of the time at
which it knows or reasonably should have known that the documents are not available in the manner required by paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.
(i)
Other Requirements
(1)
Delivery upon request.
If paragraph (f) or (g) of this section is relied on with respect to a Contract, the Registrant (or a financial intermediary through which the Contract may be purchased) must send, at no cost to the requestor and by U.S. first class mail or other reasonably prompt means, a paper copy of the Contract Statutory Prospectus, Contract Statement of Additional Information, and in the case of a Registrant on Form N-3, the Registrant's most recent annual and semi-annual reports to shareholders under § 270.30e-1 of this chapter, to any person requesting such a copy within three business days after receiving a request for a paper copy. If paragraph (f) or (g) of this section is relied on with respect to a Contract, the Registrant (or a financial intermediary through which Contract may be purchased) must send, at no cost to the requestor, and by email, an electronic copy of any of the documents listed in this paragraph (i)(1) to any person requesting a copy of such document within three business days after receiving a request for an electronic copy. The requirement to send an electronic copy of a document may be satisfied by sending a direct link to the online document; provided that a current version of the document is directly accessible through the link from the time that the email is sent through the date that is six months after the date that the email is sent and the email explains both how long the link will remain useable and that, if the recipient desires to retain a copy of the document, he or she should access and save the document.
(2)
Greater prominence.
If paragraph (f) or (g) of this section is relied on with respect to a Contract, the Summary Prospectus shall be given greater prominence than any materials that accompany the Summary Prospectus.
(3)
Convenient for reading and printing.
If paragraph (f) or (g) of this section is relied on with respect to a Contract:
(i) The materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be presented on the website in a format, or formats, that are convenient for both reading online and printing on paper; and
(ii) Persons accessing the materials that are accessible in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section must be able to permanently retain, free of charge, an electronic version of such materials in a format, or formats, that are convenient for both reading online and printing on paper.
(4)
Website addresses.
If paragraph (f) or (g) of this section is relied on with respect to a Contract, any website address that is included in an electronic version of the Summary Prospectus must include an active hyperlink or provide another means of facilitating access through equivalent methods or technologies that lead directly to the relevant website address. This paragraph (i)(4) does not apply to electronic versions of a Summary Prospectus that are filed on the EDGAR system.
(5)
Compliance with this paragraph (i) not a condition to reliance on paragraph (f) or (g) of this section.
Compliance with this paragraph (i) is not a condition to the ability to rely on paragraph (f) or (g) of this section with respect to a Contract, and failure to comply with this paragraph (i) does not negate the ability to rely on paragraph (f) or (g) of this section.
(j)
Portfolio Company Prospectuses
—(1)
Transfer of the Portfolio Company security.
Any obligation under section 5(b)(2) of the Act to have a Statutory Prospectus precede or accompany the carrying or delivery of a Portfolio Company security is satisfied if, and information contained in the documents referenced in paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section is conveyed for purposes of § 230.159 when:
(i) An Initial Summary Prospectus is used for each currently offered Contract described under the related registration statement;
(ii) A summary prospectus is used for the Portfolio Company (if the Portfolio Company is registered on Form N-1A); and
(iii) The current summary prospectus, Statutory Prospectus, Statement of Additional Information, and most recent annual and semi-annual reports to shareholders under § 270.30e-
1 of this chapter for the Portfolio Company are publicly accessible, free of charge, at the same website address referenced in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, and are accessible under the conditions set forth in paragraphs (h)(1), (h)(2)(i) and (ii), and (h)(3) and (4) of this section, with respect to the availability of documents relating to the Contract.
(2)
Communications.
Any communication relating to a Portfolio Company (other than a prospectus permitted or required under section 10 of the Act) shall not be deemed a prospectus under section 2(a)(10) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(10)) if the conditions set forth in paragraph (j)(1) of this section are satisfied.
(3)
Other requirements.
The materials referenced in paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section must be delivered upon request, presented, and able to be retained under the conditions set forth in paragraphs (i)(1) and (3) of this section. Compliance with this paragraph (j)(3) is not a condition to the ability to rely on paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section, and failure to comply with this paragraph (j)(3) does not negate the ability to rely on paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section.
[89 FR 60085, July 24, 2024]

# Regulation D—Rules Governing the Limited Offer and Sale of Securities Without Registration Under the Securities Act of 1933

# Source:
Sections 230.501 through 230.506 appear at 47 FR 11262, Mar. 16, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 230.500
Use of Regulation D.
Users of Regulation D (§§ 230.500
et seq.
) should note the following:
(a) Regulation D relates to transactions exempted from the registration requirements of section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act) (15 U.S.C.77a
et seq.,
as amended). Such transactions are not exempt from the antifraud, civil liability, or other provisions of the federal securities laws. Issuers are reminded of their obligation to provide such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the information required under Regulation D, in light of the circumstances under which it is furnished, not misleading.
(b) Nothing in Regulation D obviates the need to comply with any applicable state law relating to the offer and sale of securities. Regulation D is intended to be a basic element in a uniform system of federal-state limited offering exemptions consistent with the provisions of sections 18 and 19(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77r and 77(s)(c)). In those states that have adopted Regulation D, or any version of Regulation D, special attention should be directed to the applicable state laws and regulations, including those relating to registration of persons who receive remuneration in connection with the offer and sale of securities, to disqualification of issuers and other persons associated with offerings based on state administrative orders or judgments, and to requirements for filings of notices of sales.
(c) Attempted compliance with any rule in Regulation D does not act as an exclusive election; the issuer can also claim the availability of any other applicable exemption. For instance, an issuer's failure to satisfy all the terms and conditions of rule 506(b) (§ 230.506(b)) shall not raise any presumption that the exemption provided by section 4(a)(2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(2)) is not available.
(d) Regulation D is available only to the issuer of the securities and not to any affiliate of that issuer or to any other person for resales of the issuer's securities. Regulation D provides an exemption only for the transactions in which the securities are offered or sold by the issuer, not for the securities themselves.
(e) Regulation D may be used for business combinations that involve sales by virtue of rule 145(a) (§ 230.145(a)) or otherwise.
(f) In view of the objectives of Regulation D and the policies underlying the Act, Regulation D is not available to any issuer for any transaction or chain of transactions that, although in technical compliance with Regulation D, is part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration provisions of the Act. In such cases, registration under the Act is required.
(g) Securities offered and sold outside the United States in accordance with
§§ 230.901 through 230.905 (Regulation S) need not be registered under the Act. See Release No. 33-6863. Regulation S may be relied on for such offers and sales even if coincident offers and sales are made in accordance with Regulation D inside the United States. See § 230.152(b)(2). Thus, for example, persons who are offered and sold securities in accordance with Regulation S would not be counted in the calculation of the number of purchasers under Regulation D. Similarly, proceeds from such sales would not be included in the aggregate offering price. The provisions of this paragraph (g), however, do not apply if the issuer elects to rely solely on Regulation D for offers or sales to persons made outside the United States. See §§ 230.502(a) and 230.152.
[77 FR 18684, Mar. 28, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 44804, July 24, 2013; 86 FR 3597, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 230.501
Definitions and terms used in Regulation D.
As used in Regulation D (§ 230.500
et seq.
of this chapter), the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
(a)
Accredited investor. Accredited investor
shall mean any person who comes within any of the following categories, or who the issuer reasonably believes comes within any of the following categories, at the time of the sale of the securities to that person:
(1) Any bank as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the Act, or any savings and loan association or other institution as defined in section 3(a)(5)(A) of the Act whether acting in its individual or fiduciary capacity; any broker or dealer registered pursuant to section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; any investment adviser registered pursuant to section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or registered pursuant to the laws of a state; any investment adviser relying on the exemption from registering with the Commission under section 203(l) or (m) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940; any insurance company as defined in section 2(a)(13) of the Act; any investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or a business development company as defined in section 2(a)(48) of that act; any Small Business Investment Company licensed by the U.S. Small Business Administration under section 301(c) or (d) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958; any Rural Business Investment Company as defined in section 384A of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act; any plan established and maintained by a state, its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or its political subdivisions, for the benefit of its employees, if such plan has total assets in excess of $5,000,000; any employee benefit plan within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 if the investment decision is made by a plan fiduciary, as defined in section 3(21) of such act, which is either a bank, savings and loan association, insurance company, or registered investment adviser, or if the employee benefit plan has total assets in excess of $5,000,000 or, if a self-directed plan, with investment decisions made solely by persons that are accredited investors;
(2) Any private business development company as defined in section 202(a)(22) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940;
(3) Any organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, corporation, Massachusetts or similar business trust, partnership, or limited liability company, not formed for the specific purpose of acquiring the securities offered, with total assets in excess of $5,000,000;
(4) Any director, executive officer, or general partner of the issuer of the securities being offered or sold, or any director, executive officer, or general partner of a general partner of that issuer;
(5) Any natural person whose individual net worth, or joint net worth with that person's spouse or spousal equivalent, exceeds $1,000,000;
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, for purposes of calculating net worth under this paragraph (a)(5):
(A) The person's primary residence shall not be included as an asset;
(B) Indebtedness that is secured by the person's primary residence, up to the estimated fair market value of the primary residence at the time of the sale of securities, shall not be included
as a liability (except that if the amount of such indebtedness outstanding at the time of sale of securities exceeds the amount outstanding 60 days before such time, other than as a result of the acquisition of the primary residence, the amount of such excess shall be included as a liability); and
(C) Indebtedness that is secured by the person's primary residence in excess of the estimated fair market value of the primary residence at the time of the sale of securities shall be included as a liability;
(ii) Paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section will not apply to any calculation of a person's net worth made in connection with a purchase of securities in accordance with a right to purchase such securities, provided that:
(A) Such right was held by the person on July 20, 2010;
(B) The person qualified as an accredited investor on the basis of net worth at the time the person acquired such right; and
(C) The person held securities of the same issuer, other than such right, on July 20, 2010.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(5):
For the purposes of calculating joint net worth in this paragraph (a)(5): Joint net worth can be the aggregate net worth of the investor and spouse or spousal equivalent; assets need not be held jointly to be included in the calculation. Reliance on the joint net worth standard of this paragraph (a)(5) does not require that the securities be purchased jointly.
(6) Any natural person who had an individual income in excess of $200,000 in each of the two most recent years or joint income with that person's spouse or spousal equivalent in excess of $300,000 in each of those years and has a reasonable expectation of reaching the same income level in the current year;
(7) Any trust, with total assets in excess of $5,000,000, not formed for the specific purpose of acquiring the securities offered, whose purchase is directed by a sophisticated person as described in § 230.506(b)(2)(ii);
(8) Any entity in which all of the equity owners are accredited investors;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(8):
It is permissible to look through various forms of equity ownership to natural persons in determining the accredited investor status of entities under this paragraph (a)(8). If those natural persons are themselves accredited investors, and if all other equity owners of the entity seeking accredited investor status are accredited investors, then this paragraph (a)(8) may be available.
(9) Any entity, of a type not listed in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), (7), or (8), not formed for the specific purpose of acquiring the securities offered, owning investments in excess of $5,000,000;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(9):
For the purposes this paragraph (a)(9), “investments” is defined in rule 2a51-1(b) under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (17 CFR 270.2a51-1(b)).
(10) Any natural person holding in good standing one or more professional certifications or designations or credentials from an accredited educational institution that the Commission has designated as qualifying an individual for accredited investor status. In determining whether to designate a professional certification or designation or credential from an accredited educational institution for purposes of this paragraph (a)(10), the Commission will consider, among others, the following attributes:
(i) The certification, designation, or credential arises out of an examination or series of examinations administered by a self-regulatory organization or other industry body or is issued by an accredited educational institution;
(ii) The examination or series of examinations is designed to reliably and validly demonstrate an individual's comprehension and sophistication in the areas of securities and investing;
(iii) Persons obtaining such certification, designation, or credential can reasonably be expected to have sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters to evaluate the merits and risks of a prospective investment; and
(iv) An indication that an individual holds the certification or designation is either made publicly available by the relevant self-regulatory organization or other industry body or is otherwise independently verifiable;

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(10):
The Commission will designate professional certifications or designations or credentials for purposes of this paragraph (a)(10), by order, after notice and an opportunity for public comment. The professional certifications or
designations or credentials currently recognized by the Commission as satisfying the above criteria will be posted on the Commission's website.
(11) Any natural person who is a “knowledgeable employee,” as defined in rule 3c-5(a)(4) under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (17 CFR 270.3c-5(a)(4)), of the issuer of the securities being offered or sold where the issuer would be an investment company, as defined in section 3 of such act, but for the exclusion provided by either section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of such act;
(12) Any “family office,” as defined in rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1):
(i) With assets under management in excess of $5,000,000,
(ii) That is not formed for the specific purpose of acquiring the securities offered, and
(iii) Whose prospective investment is directed by a person who has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that such family office is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the prospective investment; and
(13) Any “family client,” as defined in rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1)), of a family office meeting the requirements in paragraph (a)(12) of this section and whose prospective investment in the issuer is directed by such family office pursuant to paragraph (a)(12)(iii).
(b)
Affiliate.
An
affiliate
of, or person
affiliated
with, a specified person shall mean a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified.
(c)
Aggregate offering price. Aggregate offering price
shall mean the sum of all cash, services, property, notes, cancellation of debt, or other consideration to be received by an issuer for issuance of its securities. Where securities are being offered for both cash and non-cash consideration, the aggregate offering price shall be based on the price at which the securities are offered for cash. Any portion of the aggregate offering price attributable to cash received in a foreign currency shall be translated into United States currency at the currency exchange rate in effect at a reasonable time prior to or on the date of the sale of the securities. If securities are not offered for cash, the aggregate offering price shall be based on the value of the consideration as established by bona fide sales of that consideration made within a reasonable time, or, in the absence of sales, on the fair value as determined by an accepted standard. Such valuations of non-cash consideration must be reasonable at the time made.
(d)
Business combination. Business combination
shall mean any transaction of the type specified in paragraph (a) of Rule 145 under the Act (17 CFR 230.145) and any transaction involving the acquisition by one issuer, in exchange for all or a part of its own or its parent's stock, of stock of another issuer if, immediately after the acquisition, the acquiring issuer has control of the other issuer (whether or not it had control before the acquisition).
(e)
Calculation of number of purchasers.
For purposes of calculating the number of purchasers under § 230.506(b) only, the following shall apply:
(1) The following purchasers shall be excluded:
(i) Any relative, spouse or relative of the spouse of a purchaser who has the same primary residence as the purchaser;
(ii) Any trust or estate in which a purchaser and any of the persons related to him as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (e)(1)(iii) of this section collectively have more than 50 percent of the beneficial interest (excluding contingent interests);
(iii) Any corporation or other organization of which a purchaser and any of the persons related to him as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (e)(1)(ii) of this section collectively are beneficial owners of more than 50 percent of the equity securities (excluding directors' qualifying shares) or equity interests; and
(iv) Any accredited investor.
(2) A corporation, partnership or other entity shall be counted as one purchaser. If, however, that entity is organized for the specific purpose of acquiring the securities offered and is not
an accredited investor under paragraph (a)(8) of this section, then each beneficial owner of equity securities or equity interests in the entity shall count as a separate purchaser for all provisions of Regulation D (§§ 230.501-230.508), except to the extent provided in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(3) A non-contributory employee benefit plan within the meaning of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 shall be counted as one purchaser where the trustee makes all investment decisions for the plan.

# Note:
The issuer must satisfy all the other provisions of Regulation D for all purchasers whether or not they are included in calculating the number of purchasers. Clients of an investment adviser or customers of a broker or dealer shall be considered the “purchasers” under Regulation D regardless of the amount of discretion given to the investment adviser or broker or dealer to act on behalf of the client or customer.
(f)
Executive officer. Executive officer
shall mean the president, any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as sales, administration or finance), any other officer who performs a policy making function, or any other person who performs similar policy making functions for the issuer. Executive officers of subsidiaries may be deemed executive officers of the issuer if they perform such policy making functions for the issuer.
(g)
Final order. Final order
shall mean a written directive or declaratory statement issued by a federal or state agency described in § 230.506(d)(1)(iii) under applicable statutory authority that provides for notice and an opportunity for hearing, which constitutes a final disposition or action by that federal or state agency.
(h)
Issuer.
The definition of the term
issuer
in section 2(a)(4) of the Act shall apply, except that in the case of a proceeding under the Federal Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. 101
et seq.
), the trustee or debtor in possession shall be considered the issuer in an offering under a plan or reorganization, if the securities are to be issued under the plan.
(i)
Purchaser representative. Purchaser representative
shall mean any person who satisfies all of the following conditions or who the issuer reasonably believes satisfies all of the following conditions:
(1) Is not an affiliate, director, officer or other employee of the issuer, or beneficial owner of 10 percent or more of any class of the equity securities or 10 percent or more of the equity interest in the issuer, except where the purchaser is:
(i) A relative of the purchaser representative by blood, marriage or adoption and not more remote than a first cousin;
(ii) A trust or estate in which the purchaser representative and any persons related to him as specified in paragraph (i)(1)(i) or (iii) of this section collectively have more than 50 percent of the beneficial interest (excluding contingent interest) or of which the purchaser representative serves as trustee, executor, or in any similar capacity; or
(iii) A corporation or other organization of which the purchaser representative and any persons related to him as specified in paragraph (i)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section collectively are the beneficial owners of more than 50 percent of the equity securities (excluding directors' qualifying shares) or equity interests;
(2) Has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that he is capable of evaluating, alone, or together with other purchaser representatives of the purchaser, or together with the purchaser, the merits and risks of the prospective investment;
(3) Is acknowledged by the purchaser in writing, during the course of the transaction, to be his purchaser representative in connection with evaluating the merits and risks of the prospective investment; and
(4) Discloses to the purchaser in writing a reasonable time prior to the sale of securities to that purchaser any material relationship between himself or his affiliates and the issuer or its affiliates that then exists, that is mutually understood to be contemplated, or that has existed at any time during the previous two years, and any compensation received or to be received as a result of such relationship.
(j)
Spousal equivalent.
The term
spousal equivalent
shall mean a cohabitant
occupying a relationship generally equivalent to that of a spouse.

# Note 1 to § 230.501:
A person acting as a purchaser representative should consider the applicability of the registration and antifraud provisions relating to brokers and dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
Exchange Act
) (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.,
as amended) and relating to investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

# Note 2 to § 230.501:
The acknowledgment required by paragraph (h)(3) and the disclosure required by paragraph (h)(4) of this section must be made with specific reference to each prospective investment. Advance blanket acknowledgment, such as for
all securities transactions
or
all private placements,
is not sufficient.

# Note 3 to § 230.501:
Disclosure of any material relationships between the purchaser representative or his affiliates and the issuer or its affiliates does not relieve the purchaser representative of his obligation to act in the interest of the purchaser.
[47 FR 11262, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 53 FR 7868, Mar. 10, 1988; 54 FR 11372, Mar. 20, 1989; 76 FR 81806, Dec. 29, 2011; 77 FR 18685, Mar. 28, 2012; 78 FR 44770, 44804, July 24, 2013; 81 FR 83553, Nov. 21, 2016; 85 FR 64277, Oct. 9, 2020; 90 FR 9687, Feb. 18, 2025]
§ 230.502
General conditions to be met.
The following conditions shall be applicable to offers and sales made under Regulation D (§ 230.500
et seq.
of this chapter):
(a)
Integration.
To determine whether offers and sales should be integrated, see § 230.152.
(b)
Information requirements
—(1)
When information must be furnished.
If the issuer sells securities under § 230.506(b) to any purchaser that is not an accredited investor, the issuer shall furnish the information specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section to such purchaser a reasonable time prior to sale. The issuer is not required to furnish the specified information to purchasers when it sells securities under § 230.504, or to any accredited investor.

# Note:
When an issuer provides information to investors pursuant to paragraph (b)(1), it should consider providing such information to accredited investors as well, in view of the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws.
(2)
Type of information to be furnished.
(i) If the issuer is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, at a reasonable time prior to the sale of securities the issuer shall furnish to the purchaser, to the extent material to an understanding of the issuer, its business and the securities being offered:
(A)
Non-financial statement information.
If the issuer is eligible to use Regulation A (§ 230.251-263), the same kind of information as would be required in Part II of Form 1-A (§ 239.90 of this chapter). If the issuer is not eligible to use Regulation A, the same kind of information as required in Part I of a registration statement filed under the Securities Act on the form that the issuer would be entitled to use.
(B)
Financial statement information
—(
1
)
Offerings up to $20,000,000.
The financial statement information required by paragraph (b) of Part F/S of Form 1-A. Such financial statement information must be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (US GAAP). If the issuer is a foreign private issuer, such financial statements must be prepared in accordance with either US GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). If the financial statements comply with IFRS, such compliance must be explicitly and unreservedly stated in the notes to the financial statements and if the financial statements are audited, the auditor's report must include an opinion on whether the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
(
2
)
Offerings over $20,000,000.
The financial statement information required by paragraph (c) of Part F/S of Form 1-A (referenced in § 239.90 of this chapter). If the issuer is a foreign private issuer, such financial statements must be prepared in accordance with either US GAAP or IFRS as issued by the IASB. If the financial statements comply with IFRS, such compliance must be explicitly and unreservedly stated in the notes to the financial statements and the auditor's report must include an opinion on whether the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
(C) If the issuer is a foreign private issuer eligible to use Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), the issuer
shall disclose the same kind of information required to be included in a registration statement filed under the Act on the form that the issuer would be entitled to use. The financial statements need be certified only to the extent required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) (B) (
1
), (
2
) or (
3
) of this section, as appropriate.
(ii) If the issuer is subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, at a reasonable time prior to the sale of securities the issuer shall furnish to the purchaser the information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, and in either event the information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of this section:
(A) The issuer's annual report to shareholders for the most recent fiscal year, if such annual report meets the requirements of Rules 14a-3 or 14c-3 under the Exchange Act (§ 240.14a-3 or § 240.14c-3 of this chapter), the definitive proxy statement filed in connection with that annual report, and if requested by the purchaser in writing, a copy of the issuer's most recent Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) under the Exchange Act.
(B) The information contained in an annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) under the Exchange Act or in a registration statement on Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter) or S-11 (§ 239.18 of this chapter) under the Act or on Form 10 (§ 249.210 of this chapter) under the Exchange Act, whichever filing is the most recent required to be filed.
(C) The information contained in any reports or documents required to be filed by the issuer under sections 13(a), 14(a), 14(c), and 15(d) of the Exchange Act since the distribution or filing of the report or registration statement specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) (A) or (B), and a brief description of the securities being offered, the use of the proceeds from the offering, and any material changes in the issuer's affairs that are not disclosed in the documents furnished.
(D) If the issuer is a foreign private issuer, the issuer may provide in lieu of the information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section, the information contained in its most recent filing on Form 20-F or Form F-1 (§ 239.31 of the chapter).
(iii) Exhibits required to be filed with the Commission as part of a registration statement or report, other than an annual report to shareholders or parts of that report incorporated by reference in a Form 10-K report, need not be furnished to each purchaser that is not an accredited investor if the contents of material exhibits are identified and such exhibits are made available to a purchaser, upon his or her written request, a reasonable time before his or her purchase.
(iv) At a reasonable time prior to the sale of securities to any purchaser that is not an accredited investor in a transaction under § 230.506(b), the issuer shall furnish to the purchaser a brief description in writing of any material written information concerning the offering that has been provided by the issuer to any accredited investor but not previously delivered to such unaccredited purchaser. The issuer shall furnish any portion or all of this information to the purchaser, upon his written request a reasonable time prior to his purchase.
(v) The issuer shall also make available to each purchaser at a reasonable time prior to his purchase of securities in a transaction under § 230.506(b) the opportunity to ask questions and receive answers concerning the terms and conditions of the offering and to obtain any additional information which the issuer possesses or can acquire without unreasonable effort or expense that is necessary to verify the accuracy of information furnished under paragraph (b)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section.
(vi) For business combinations or exchange offers, in addition to information required by Form S-4 (17 CFR 239.25), the issuer shall provide to each purchaser at the time the plan is submitted to security holders, or, with an exchange, during the course of the transaction and prior to sale, written information about any terms or arrangements of the proposed transactions that are materially different from those for all other security holders. For purposes of this subsection, an issuer which is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act may satisfy the requirements of Part I.B. or C. of Form S-4 by compliance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this § 230.502.
(vii) At a reasonable time prior to the sale of securities to any purchaser that is not an accredited investor in a transaction under § 230.506(b), the issuer shall advise the purchaser of the limitations on resale in the manner contained in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Such disclosure may be contained in other materials required to be provided by this paragraph.
(viii) At a reasonable time prior to the sale of securities to any purchaser that is not an accredited investor in a transaction under § 230.506(b), the issuer shall provide the purchaser with any written communication or broadcast script used under the authorization of § 230.241 within 30 days prior to such sale.
(c)
Limitation on manner of offering.
Except as provided in § 230.504(b)(1) or § 230.506(c), neither the issuer nor any person acting on its behalf shall offer or sell the securities by any form of general solicitation or general advertising, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Any advertisement, article, notice or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine, or similar media or broadcast over television or radio; and
(2) Any seminar or meeting whose attendees have been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising;
Provided, however,
that publication by an issuer of a notice in accordance with § 230.135c or filing with the Commission by an issuer of a notice of sales on Form D (17 CFR 239.500) in which the issuer has made a good faith and reasonable attempt to comply with the requirements of such form, shall not be deemed to constitute general solicitation or general advertising for purposes of this section;
Provided further,
that, if the requirements of § 230.135e are satisfied, providing any journalist with access to press conferences held outside of the United States, to meetings with issuer or selling security holder representatives conducted outside of the United States, or to written press-related materials released outside the United States, at or in which a present or proposed offering of securities is discussed, will not be deemed to constitute general solicitation or general advertising for purposes of this section.
(d)
Limitations on resale.
Except as provided in § 230.504(b)(1), securities acquired in a transaction under Regulation D shall have the status of securities acquired in a transaction under section 4(a)(2) of the Act and cannot be resold without registration under the Act or an exemption therefrom. The issuer shall exercise reasonable care to assure that the purchasers of the securities are not underwriters within the meaning of section 2(a)(11) of the Act, which reasonable care may be demonstrated by the following:
(1) Reasonable inquiry to determine if the purchaser is acquiring the securities for himself or for other persons;
(2) Written disclosure to each purchaser prior to sale that the securities have not been registered under the Act and, therefore, cannot be resold unless they are registered under the Act or unless an exemption from registration is available; and
(3) Placement of a legend on the certificate or other document that evidences the securities stating that the securities have not been registered under the Act and setting forth or referring to the restrictions on transferability and sale of the securities.
While taking these actions will establish the requisite reasonable care, it is not the exclusive method to demonstrate such care. Other actions by the issuer may satisfy this provision. In addition, § 230.502(b)(2)(vii) requires the delivery of written disclosure of the limitations on resale to investors in certain instances.
[47 FR 11262, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 54771, Dec. 6, 1982; 53 FR 7869, Mar. 11, 1988; 54 FR 11372, Mar. 20, 1989; 55 FR 18322, May 2, 1990; 56 FR 30054, 30055, July 1, 1991; 57 FR 47409, Oct. 16, 1992; 58 FR 26514, May 4, 1993; 59 FR 21650, Apr. 26, 1994; 62 FR 53954, Oct. 17, 1997; 73 FR 969, Jan. 4, 2008; 73 FR 10615, Feb. 27, 2008; 77 FR 18685, Mar. 28, 2012; 78 FR 44804, July 24, 2013; 81 FR 83553, Nov. 21, 2016; 86 FR 3598, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 230.503
Filing of notice of sales.
(a)
When notice of sales on Form D is required and permitted to be filed.
(1) An issuer offering or selling securities in
reliance on § 230.504 or § 230.506 must file with the Commission a notice of sales containing the information required by Form D (17 CFR 239.500) for each new offering of securities no later than 15 calendar days after the first sale of securities in the offering, unless the end of that period falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, in which case the due date would be the first business day following.
(2) An issuer may file an amendment to a previously filed notice of sales on Form D at any time.
(3) An issuer must file an amendment to a previously filed notice of sales on Form D for an offering:
(i) To correct a material mistake of fact or error in the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, as soon as practicable after discovery of the mistake or error;
(ii) To reflect a change in the information provided in the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, as soon as practicable after the change, except that no amendment is required to reflect a change that occurs after the offering terminates or a change that occurs solely in the following information:
(A) The address or relationship to the issuer of a related person identified in response to Item 3 of the notice of sales on Form D;
(B) An issuer's revenues or aggregate net asset value;
(C) The minimum investment amount, if the change is an increase, or if the change, together with all other changes in that amount since the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, does not result in a decrease of more than 10%;
(D) Any address or state(s) of solicitation shown in response to Item 12 of the notice of sales on Form D;
(E) The total offering amount, if the change is a decrease, or if the change, together with all other changes in that amount since the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, does not result in an increase of more than 10%;
(F) The amount of securities sold in the offering or the amount remaining to be sold;
(G) The number of non-accredited investors who have invested in the offering, as long as the change does not increase the number to more than 35;
(H) The total number of investors who have invested in the offering; or
(I) The amount of sales commissions, finders' fees or use of proceeds for payments to executive officers, directors or promoters, if the change is a decrease, or if the change, together with all other changes in that amount since the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, does not result in an increase of more than 10%; and
(iii) Annually, on or before the first anniversary of the filing of the notice of sales on Form D or the filing of the most recent amendment to the notice of sales on Form D, if the offering is continuing at that time.
(4) An issuer that files an amendment to a previously filed notice of sales on Form D must provide current information in response to all requirements of the notice of sales on Form D regardless of why the amendment is filed.
(b)
How notice of sales on Form D must be filed and signed.
(1) A notice of sales on Form D must be filed with the Commission in electronic format by means of the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval System (EDGAR) in accordance with EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(2) Every notice of sales on Form D must be signed by a person duly authorized by the issuer.
[73 FR 10615, Feb. 27, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 83553, Nov. 21, 2016]
§ 230.504
Exemption for limited offerings and sales of securities not exceeding $10,000,000.
(a)
Exemption.
Offers and sales of securities that satisfy the conditions in paragraph (b) of this § 230.504 by an issuer that is not:
(1) Subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act,;
(2) An investment company; or
(3) A development stage company that either has no specific business plan or purpose or has indicated that its business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company or companies, or other entity or person, shall be exempt from
the provision of section 5 of the Act under section 3(b) of the Act.
(b)
Conditions to be met
—(1)
General conditions.
To qualify for exemption under this § 230.504, offers and sales must satisfy the terms and conditions of §§ 230.501 and 230.502 (a), (c) and (d), except that the provisions of § 230.502 (c) and (d) will not apply to offers and sales of securities under this § 230.504 that are made:
(i) Exclusively in one or more states that provide for the registration of the securities, and require the public filing and delivery to investors of a substantive disclosure document before sale, and are made in accordance with those state provisions;
(ii) In one or more states that have no provision for the registration of the securities or the public filing or delivery of a disclosure document before sale, if the securities have been registered in at least one state that provides for such registration, public filing and delivery before sale, offers and sales are made in that state in accordance with such provisions, and the disclosure document is delivered before sale to all purchasers (including those in the states that have no such procedure); or
(iii) Exclusively according to state law exemptions from registration that permit general solicitation and general advertising so long as sales are made only to “accredited investors” as defined in § 230.501(a).
(2)
Offering limit.
The aggregate offering price for an offering of securities under this § 230.504, as defined in § 230.501(c), shall not exceed $10,000,000, less the aggregate offering price for all securities sold within the 12 months before the start of and during the offering of securities under this § 230.504 or in violation of section 5(a) of the Securities Act.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(2):
If a transaction under § 230.504 fails to meet the limitation on the aggregate offering price, it does not affect the availability of this § 230.504 for the other transactions considered in applying such limitation. For example, if an issuer sold $10,000,000 of its securities on June 1, 2021, under this § 230.504 and an additional $500,000 of its securities on December 1, 2021, this § 230.504 would not be available for the later sale, but would still be applicable to the June 1, 2021, sale.
(3)
Disqualifications.
No exemption under this section shall be available for the securities of any issuer if such issuer would be subject to disqualification under § 230.506(d) on or after January 20, 2017; provided that disclosure of prior “bad actor” events shall be required in accordance with § 230.506(e).
Instruction to paragraph (b)(3):
For purposes of disclosure of prior “bad actor” events pursuant to § 230.506(e), an issuer shall furnish to each purchaser, a reasonable time prior to sale, a description in writing of any matters that would have triggered disqualification under this paragraph (b)(3) but occurred before January 20, 2017.
[57 FR 36473, Aug. 13, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 30402, June 14, 1996; 64 FR 11094, Mar. 8, 1999; 81 FR 83553, Nov. 21, 2016; 82 FR 12067, Feb. 28, 2017; 86 FR 3598, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 230.505
[Reserved]
§ 230.506
Exemption for limited offers and sales without regard to dollar amount of offering.
(a)
Exemption.
Offers and sales of securities by an issuer that satisfy the conditions in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall be deemed to be transactions not involving any public offering within the meaning of section 4(a)(2) of the Act.
(b)
Conditions to be met in offerings subject to limitation on manner of offering
—(1)
General conditions.
To qualify for an exemption under this section, offers and sales must satisfy all the terms and conditions of §§ 230.501 and 230.502.
(2)
Specific conditions
— (i)
Limitation on number of purchasers.
There are no more than, or the issuer reasonably believes that there are no more than, 35 purchasers of securities from the issuer in offerings under this section in any 90-calendar-day period.

# Note 1 to paragraph (b)(2)(i):
See § 230.501(e) for the calculation of the number of purchasers and § 230.502(a) for what may or may not constitute an offering under paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii)
Nature of purchasers.
Each purchaser who is not an accredited investor either alone or with his purchaser
representative(s) has such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that he is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the prospective investment, or the issuer reasonably believes immediately prior to making any sale that such purchaser comes within this description.
(c)
Conditions to be met in offerings not subject to limitation on manner of offering
—(1)
General conditions.
To qualify for exemption under this section, sales must satisfy all the terms and conditions of §§ 230.501 and 230.502(a) and (d).
(2)
Specific conditions
—(i)
Nature of purchasers.
All purchasers of securities sold in any offering under paragraph (c) of this section are accredited investors.
(ii)
Verification of accredited investor status.
The issuer shall take reasonable steps to verify that purchasers of securities sold in any offering under paragraph (c) of this section are accredited investors. The issuer shall be deemed to take reasonable steps to verify if the issuer uses, at its option, one of the following non-exclusive and non-mandatory methods of verifying that a natural person who purchases securities in such offering is an accredited investor; provided, however, that the issuer does not have knowledge that such person is not an accredited investor:
(A) In regard to whether the purchaser is an accredited investor on the basis of income, reviewing any Internal Revenue Service form that reports the purchaser's income for the two most recent years (including, but not limited to, Form W-2, Form 1099, Schedule K-1 to Form 1065, and Form 1040) and obtaining a written representation from the purchaser that he or she has a reasonable expectation of reaching the income level necessary to qualify as an accredited investor during the current year;
(B) In regard to whether the purchaser is an accredited investor on the basis of net worth, reviewing one or more of the following types of documentation dated within the prior three months and obtaining a written representation from the purchaser that all liabilities necessary to make a determination of net worth have been disclosed:
(
1
) With respect to assets: Bank statements, brokerage statements and other statements of securities holdings, certificates of deposit, tax assessments, and appraisal reports issued by independent third parties; and
(
2
) With respect to liabilities: A consumer report from at least one of the nationwide consumer reporting agencies;
(C) Obtaining a written confirmation from one of the following persons or entities that such person or entity has taken reasonable steps to verify that the purchaser is an accredited investor within the prior three months and has determined that such purchaser is an accredited investor:
(
1
) A registered broker-dealer;
(
2
) An investment adviser registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(
3
) A licensed attorney who is in good standing under the laws of the jurisdictions in which he or she is admitted to practice law; or
(
4
) A certified public accountant who is duly registered and in good standing under the laws of the place of his or her residence or principal office;
(D) In regard to any person who purchased securities in an issuer's Rule 506(b) offering as an accredited investor prior to September 23, 2013 and continues to hold such securities, for the same issuer's Rule 506(c) offering, obtaining a certification by such person at the time of sale that he or she qualifies as an accredited investor; or
(E) In regard to any person that the issuer previously took reasonable steps to verify as an accredited investor in accordance with this paragraph (c)(2)(ii), so long as the issuer is not aware of information to the contrary, obtaining a written representation from such person at the time of sale that he or she qualifies as an accredited investor. A written representation under this method of verification will satisfy the issuer's obligation to verify the person's accredited investor status for a period of five years from the date the person was previously verified as an accredited investor.
Instructions to paragraph (c)(2)(ii):
of this section.
1. The issuer is not required to use any of these methods in verifying the accredited investor status of natural persons who are purchasers. These
methods are examples of the types of non-exclusive and non-mandatory methods that satisfy the verification requirement in § 230.506(c)(2)(ii).
2. In the case of a person who qualifies as an accredited investor based on joint income with that person's spouse, the issuer would be deemed to satisfy the verification requirement in § 230.506(c)(2)(ii)(A) by reviewing copies of Internal Revenue Service forms that report income for the two most recent years in regard to, and obtaining written representations from, both the person and the spouse.
3. In the case of a person who qualifies as an accredited investor based on joint net worth with that person's spouse, the issuer would be deemed to satisfy the verification requirement in § 230.506(c)(2)(ii)(B) by reviewing such documentation in regard to, and obtaining written representations from, both the person and the spouse.
(d) “
Bad Actor” disqualification.
(1) No exemption under this section shall be available for a sale of securities if the issuer; any predecessor of the issuer; any affiliated issuer; any director, executive officer, other officer participating in the offering, general partner or managing member of the issuer; any beneficial owner of 20% or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power; any promoter connected with the issuer in any capacity at the time of such sale; any investment manager of an issuer that is a pooled investment fund; any person that has been or will be paid (directly or indirectly) remuneration for solicitation of purchasers in connection with such sale of securities; any general partner or managing member of any such investment manager or solicitor; or any director, executive officer or other officer participating in the offering of any such investment manager or solicitor or general partner or managing member of such investment manager or solicitor:
(i) Has been convicted, within ten years before such sale (or five years, in the case of issuers, their predecessors and affiliated issuers), of any felony or misdemeanor:
(A) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(B) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(C) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of securities;
(ii) Is subject to any order, judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, entered within five years before such sale, that, at the time of such sale, restrains or enjoins such person from engaging or continuing to engage in any conduct or practice:
(A) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(B) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(C) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of securities;
(iii) Is subject to a final order of a state securities commission (or an agency or officer of a state performing like functions); a state authority that supervises or examines banks, savings associations, or credit unions; a state insurance commission (or an agency or officer of a state performing like functions); an appropriate federal banking agency; the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or the National Credit Union Administration that:
(A) At the time of such sale, bars the person from:
(
1
) Association with an entity regulated by such commission, authority, agency, or officer;
(
2
) Engaging in the business of securities, insurance or banking; or
(
3
) Engaging in savings association or credit union activities; or
(B) Constitutes a final order based on a violation of any law or regulation that prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct entered within ten years before such sale;
(iv) Is subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to section 15(b) or 15B(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b) or 78
o
-4(c)) or section 203(e) or (f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e) or (f)) that, at the time of such sale:
(A) Suspends or revokes such person's registration as a broker, dealer,
municipal securities dealer or investment adviser;
(B) Places limitations on the activities, functions or operations of such person; or
(C) Bars such person from being associated with any entity or from participating in the offering of any penny stock;
(v) Is subject to any order of the Commission entered within five years before such sale that, at the time of such sale, orders the person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation or future violation of:
(A) Any scienter-based anti-fraud provision of the federal securities laws, including without limitation section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77q(a)(1)), section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)) and 17 CFR 240.10b-5, section 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(c)(1)) and section 206(1) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-6(1)), or any other rule or regulation thereunder; or
(B) Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77e).
(vi) Is suspended or expelled from membership in, or suspended or barred from association with a member of, a registered national securities exchange or a registered national or affiliated securities association for any act or omission to act constituting conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade;
(vii) Has filed (as a registrant or issuer), or was or was named as an underwriter in, any registration statement or Regulation A offering statement filed with the Commission that, within five years before such sale, was the subject of a refusal order, stop order, or order suspending the Regulation A exemption, or is, at the time of such sale, the subject of an investigation or proceeding to determine whether a stop order or suspension order should be issued; or
(viii) Is subject to a United States Postal Service false representation order entered within five years before such sale, or is, at the time of such sale, subject to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction with respect to conduct alleged by the United States Postal Service to constitute a scheme or device for obtaining money or property through the mail by means of false representations.
(2) Paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not apply:
(i) With respect to any conviction, order, judgment, decree, suspension, expulsion or bar that occurred or was issued before September 23, 2013;
(ii) Upon a showing of good cause and without prejudice to any other action by the Commission, if the Commission determines that it is not necessary under the circumstances that an exemption be denied;
(iii) If, before the relevant sale, the court or regulatory authority that entered the relevant order, judgment or decree advises in writing (whether contained in the relevant judgment, order or decree or separately to the Commission or its staff) that disqualification under paragraph (d)(1) of this section should not arise as a consequence of such order, judgment or decree; or
(iv) If the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable care, could not have known that a disqualification existed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
Instruction to paragraph (d)(2)(iv).
An issuer will not be able to establish that it has exercised reasonable care unless it has made, in light of the circumstances, factual inquiry into whether any disqualifications exist. The nature and scope of the factual inquiry will vary based on the facts and circumstances concerning, among other things, the issuer and the other offering participants.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, events relating to any affiliated issuer that occurred before the affiliation arose will be not considered disqualifying if the affiliated entity is not:
(i) In control of the issuer; or
(ii) Under common control with the issuer by a third party that was in control of the affiliated entity at the time of such events.
(e)
Disclosure of prior “bad actor” events.
The issuer shall furnish to each purchaser, a reasonable time prior to sale, a description in writing of any matters that would have triggered disqualification under paragraph (d)(1) of
this section but occurred before September 23, 2013. The failure to furnish such information timely shall not prevent an issuer from relying on this section if the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable care, could not have known of the existence of the undisclosed matter or matters.
Instruction to paragraph (e).
An issuer will not be able to establish that it has exercised reasonable care unless it has made, in light of the circumstances, factual inquiry into whether any disqualifications exist. The nature and scope of the factual inquiry will vary based on the facts and circumstances concerning, among other things, the issuer and the other offering participants.
[47 FR 11262, Mar. 6, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 11373, Mar. 20, 1989; 78 FR 44770, 44804, July 24, 2013; 86 FR 3598, Jan. 14, 2021]
§ 230.507
Disqualifying provision relating to exemptions under §§ 230.504 and 230.506.
(a) No exemption under § 230.504 or § 230.506 shall be available for an issuer if such issuer, any of its predecessors or affiliates have been subject to any order, judgment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction temporarily, preliminary or permanently enjoining such person for failure to comply with § 230.503.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply if the Commission determines, upon a showing of good cause, that it is not necessary under the circumstances that the exemption be denied.
[54 FR 11374, Mar. 20, 1989, as amended at 81 FR 83553, Nov. 21, 2016]
§ 230.508
Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of Regulation D.
(a) A failure to comply with a term, condition or requirement of § 230.504 or § 230.506 will not result in the loss of the exemption from the requirements of section 5 of the Act for any offer or sale to a particular individual or entity, if the person relying on the exemption shows:
(1) The failure to comply did not pertain to a term, condition or requirement directly intended to protect that particular individual or entity; and
(2) The failure to comply was insignificant with respect to the offering as a whole, provided that any failure to comply with paragraph (c) of § 230.502, paragraph (b)(2) of § 230.504 and paragraph (b)(2)(i) of § 230.506 shall be deemed to be significant to the offering as a whole; and
(3) A good faith and reasonable attempt was made to comply with all applicable terms, conditions and requirements of § 230.504 or § 230.506.
(b) A transaction made in reliance on § 230.504 or § 230.506 shall comply with all applicable terms, conditions and requirements of Regulation D. Where an exemption is established only through reliance upon paragraph (a) of this section, the failure to comply shall nonetheless be actionable by the Commission under section 20 of the Act.
[54 FR 11374, Mar. 20, 1989, as amended at 57 FR 36473, Aug. 13, 1992; 81 FR 83553, Nov. 21, 2016]

# Regulation E—Exemption for Securities of Small Business Investment Companies

# Authority:
Sections 230.601 to 230.610a issued under sec. 19, 48 Stat. 85, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 77s.

# Source:
Sections 230.601 through 230.610a appear at 23 FR 10484, Dec. 30, 1958, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
For regulations of Small Business Administration under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, see 13 CFR, Chapter I.
§ 230.601
Definitions of terms used in §§ 230.601 to 230.610a.
As used in §§ 230.601 to 230.610a, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:
Act.
The term
Act
refers to the Securities Act of 1933 unless specifically stated otherwise.
Affiliate.
An
affiliate
of an issuer is a person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such issuer. An individual who controls an issuer is also an affiliate of such issuer.
Notification.
The term
notification
means the notification required by § 230.604.
Offering circular.
The term
offering circular
means the offering circular required by § 230.605.
State.
A
State
is any State, Territory or insular possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
Underwriter.
The term
underwriter
shall have the meaning given in section 2(11) of the Act.
§ 230.602
Securities exempted.
(a) Except as hereinafter provided in this rule, securities issued by any small business investment company which is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or any closed-end investment company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 or has notified the Commission that it intends to elect to be regulated as a business development company pursuant to section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, will be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, subject to the terms and conditions of §§ 230.601 to 230.610a. As used in this paragraph, the term
small business investment company
means any company which is licensed as a small business investment company under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 or which has received the preliminary approval of the Small Business Administration and has been notified by the Administration that it may submit a license application. As used in this paragraph, the term
business development company
means any closed-end investment company which meets the definitional requirements of section 2(a)(48) (A) and (B) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)).
(b) No exemption under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a shall be available for the securities of any issuer if such issuer or any of its affiliates:
(1) Has filed a registration statement which is the subject of any proceeding or examination under section 8 of the Act, or is the subject of any refusal order or stop order entered thereunder within five years prior to the filing of the notification;
(2) Is subject to pending proceedings under § 230.610 or any similar rule adopted under section 3(b) of the Act, or to an order entered thereunder within five years prior to the filing of such notification;
(3) Has been convicted within five years prior to the filing of such notification of any crime or offense involving the purchase or sale of securities;
(4) Is subject to any order, judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, entered within five years prior to the filing of such notification, temporarily or permanently restraining or enjoining such person from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with the purchase or sale of securities;
(5) Is subject to pending proceedings under section 8(e) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 or to any suspension or revocation order issued thereunder;
(6) Is subject to an injunction issued pursuant to section 35(d) of the Investment Company Act of 1940; or
(7) Is subject to a U.S. Post Office fraud order.
(c) No exemption under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a shall be available for the securities of any issuer, if any of its directors, officers or principal security holders, any investment adviser or any underwriter of the securities to be offered, or any partner, director or officer of any such investment advisor or underwriter:
(1) Has been convicted within ten years prior to the filing of the notification of any crime or offense involving the purchase or sale of any security or arising out of such person's conduct as an underwriter, broker, dealer or investment adviser;
(2) Is temporarily or permanently restrained or enjoined by any court from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with the purchase or sale of any security or arising out of such person's conduct as an underwriter, broker, dealer or investment adviser;
(3) Is subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to section 15(b) or 15A(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(b) or 78
o
-3(1)); has been found by the Commission to be a cause of any such order which is still in effect; or is subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to section 203(e) or (f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e) or (f));
(4) Is suspended or has been expelled from membership in a national securities dealers association or a national securities exchange for conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade; or
(5) Is subject to a U.S. Post Office fraud order.
(d) No exemption under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a shall be available for the securities of any issuer if any underwriter of such securities, or any director, officer or partner of any such underwriter was, or was named as, an underwriter of any securities:
(1) Covered by any registration statement which is the subject of any proceeding or examination under section 8 of the Act, or is the subject of any refusal order or stop order entered thereunder within five years prior to the filing of the notification; or
(2) Covered by any filing which is subject to pending proceedings under § 230.610 or any similar rule adopted under section 3(b) of the Act, or to an order entered thereunder within five years prior to the filing of such notification.
(e) Paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this section shall not apply to the securities of any issuer if the Commission determines, upon a showing of good cause, that it is not necessary under the circumstances that the exemption be denied. Any such determination by the Commission shall be without prejudice to any other action by the Commission in any other proceeding or matter with respect to the issuer or any other person.
(Secs. 3(b) and 3(c) Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c (b) and (c)); sec. 38, Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-37))
[23 FR 10484, Dec. 30, 1958, as amended at 49 FR 35344, Sept. 7, 1984; 78 FR 79299, Dec. 30, 2013]
§ 230.603
Amount of securities exempted.
(a) The aggregate offering price of all of the following securities of the issuer shall not exceed $5,000,000:
(1) All securities presently being offered under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a, or specified in the notification as proposed to be so offered;
(2) All securities previously sold pursuant to an offering under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a, commenced within one year prior to the commencement of the proposed offering; and
(3) All securities sold in violation of section 5(a) of the Act within one year prior to the commencement of the proposed offering.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aggregate offering price of all securities so offered or sold on behalf of any one person other than the issuer shall not exceed $100,000, except that this limitation shall not apply if the securities are to be offered on behalf of the estate of a deceased person within two years after the death of such person.
(b) The aggregate offering price of securities, which have a determinable market value shall be computed upon the basis of such market value as determined from transactions or quotations on a specified date within 15 days prior to the date of filing the notification, or the offering price to the public, whichever is higher:
Provided,
That the aggregate gross proceeds actually received from the public shall not exceed the maximum aggregate offering price permitted in the particular case by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) In computing the amount of securities which may be offered under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a, there need not be included unsold securities the offering of which has been withdrawn with the consent of the Commission by amending the pertinent notification to reduce the amount stated therein as proposed to be offered.
(15 U.S.C. 77c; secs. 3(b) and 3(c), Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c (b) and (c)); sec. 38, Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-37))
[23 FR 10484, Dec. 30, 1958, as amended at 36 FR 7050, Apr. 14, 1971; 49 FR 35344, Sept. 7, 1984]
§ 230.604
Filing of notification on Form ­1-E.
(a) At least 10 days (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded) prior to the date on which the initial offering or sale of any securities is to be made under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a, there shall be filed with the Commission four copies of a notification on Form 1-E. The
Commission may, however, in its discretion, authorize the commencement of the offering or sale prior to the expiration of such 10-day period upon a written request for such authorization.
(b) The notification shall be signed by the issuer and each person, other than the issuer, for whose account any of the securities are to be offered. If the notification is signed by any person on behalf of any other person, evidence of authority to sign on behalf of such other person shall be filed with the notification, except where an officer of the issuer signs on behalf of the issuer.
(c) Any amendment to the notification shall be signed in the same manner as the original notification. Four copies of such amendment shall be filed with the Commission at least 10 days prior to any offering or sale of the securities subsequent to the filing of such amendment, or such shorter period as the Commission, in its discretion, may authorize upon a written request for such authorization.
(d) A notification or any exhibit or other document filed as a part thereof may be withdrawn upon application unless the notification is subject to an order under § 230.610 at the time the application is filed or becomes subject to such an order within 15 days (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excluded) thereafter:
Provided,
That a notification may not be withdrawn after any of the securities proposed to be offered thereunder have been sold. Any such application shall be signed in the same manner as the notification.
(Secs. 3(b) and 3(c), Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c (b) and (c)); sec. 38, Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-37))
[23 FR 10484, Dec. 30, 1958, as amended at 37 FR 1471, Jan. 29, 1972; 49 FR 35344, Sept. 7, 1984; 61 FR 49959, Sept. 24, 1996]
§ 230.605
Filing and use of the offering circular.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) or (f) of this rule and in § 230.606:
(1) No written offer of securities of any issuer shall be made under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a unless an offering circular containing the information specified in Schedule A or Schedule B, as appropriate, is concurrently given or has previously been given to the person to whom the offer is made, or has been sent to such person under such circumstances that it would normally have been received by him at or prior to the time of such written offer; and
(2) No securities of such issuer shall be sold under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a unless such an offering circular is given to the person to whom the securities were sold, or is sent to such person under such circumstances that it would normally be received by him, with or prior to any confirmation of the sale, or prior to the payment by him of all or any part of the purchase price of the securities, whichever first occurs.
(b) Any written advertisement or other written communication, or any radio or television broadcast, which states from whom an offering circular may be obtained and in addition contains no more than the following information may be published, distributed or broadcast at or after the commencement of the public offering to any person prior to sending or giving such person a copy of such circular:
(1) The name of the issuer of such security;
(2) The title of the security, the amount being offered, and the per-unit offering price to the public; and
(3) The identity of the general type of business of the issuer.
(c)(1) The offering circular may be printed, mimeographed, lithographed or typewritten, or prepared by any similar process which will result in clearly legible copies. If printed, it shall be set in roman type at least as large as ten-point modern type, except that financial statements and other statistical or tabular matter may be set in roman type at least as large as eight-point modern type. All type shall be leaded at least two points.
(2) Where an offering circular is distributed through an electronic medium, issuers may satisfy legibility requirements applicable to printed documents by presenting all required information in a format readily communicated to investors.
(d) If the offering is not completed within nine months from the date of the offering circular, a revised offering circular shall be prepared, filed and used in accordance with §§ 230.601 to
230.610a as for an original offering circular. In no event shall an offering circular be used which is false or misleading in light of the circumstances then existing.
(e) Four copies of the offering circular required by this section, which is to be used at the commencement of the offering, shall be filed with the notification at the time such notification is filed and shall be deemed a part thereof. If the offering circular is thereafter revised or amended, four copies of such revised or amended circular shall be filed as an amendment to the notification at least 10 days prior to its use, or such shorter period as the Commission may, in its discretion, authorize upon a written request for such authorization.
(f) An offering circular filed pursuant to paragraph (e) may be distributed prior to the expiration of the 10-day waiting periods for offerings provided for in § 230.604 (a) and (c) and paragraph (e) of this section and such distribution may be accompanied or followed by oral offers related thereto, provided the conditions in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(4) are met. For the purposes of this section, any offering circular distributed prior to the expiration of the ten day waiting period is called a Preliminary Offering Circular. Such Preliminary Offering Circular may be used to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provided that if a Preliminary Offering Circular is inaccurate or inadequate in any material respect, a revised Preliminary Offering Circular or an offering circular of the type referred to in paragraph (f)(4) shall be furnished to all persons to whom the securities are to be sold at least 48 hours prior to the mailing of any confirmation of sale to such persons, or shall be sent to such persons under such circumstances that it would normally be received by them 48 hours prior to their receipt of confirmation of the sale.
(1) Such Preliminary Offering Circular contains substantially the information required by this section to be included in an offering circular, or contains substantially that information except for the omission of information with respect to the offering price, underwriting discounts or commissions, discounts or commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds, conversion rates, call prices, or other matters dependent upon the offering price.
(2) The outside front cover page of the Preliminary Offering Circular shall bear the caption “Preliminary Offering Circular,” the date of its issuance, and the following statement which shall run along the left hand margin of the page and printed perpendicular to the text, in boldface type at least as large as that used generally in the body of such offering circular:
A notification pursuant to Regulation E relating to these securities has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained in this Preliminary Offering Circular is subject to completion or amendment. These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted prior to the time an offering circular which is not designated as a Preliminary Offering Circular is delivered. This Preliminary Offering Circular shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sales of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
(3) The Preliminary Offering Circular relates to a proposed public offering of securities that is to be sold by or through one or more underwriters which are broker-dealers registered under section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each of which has furnished a signed Consent and Certification in the form prescribed as a condition to the use of such offering circular;
(4) An offering circular contains all of the information specified in Schedule A or Schedule B (17 CFR 230.610a) and which is not designated as a Preliminary Offering Circular is furnished with or prior to delivery of the confirmation of sale to any person who has been furnished with a Preliminary Offering Circular pursuant to this paragraph.
(Secs. 3(b) and 3(c), Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c (b) and (c)); sec. 38, Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-37))
[23 FR 10484, Dec. 30, 1958, as amended at 49 FR 35344, Sept. 7, 1984; 61 FR 24655, May 15, 1996]
§ 230.606
Offering not in excess of $100,000.
No offering circular need be filed or used in connection with an offering of securities under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a if the aggregate offering price of all securities of the issuer offered or sold without the use of such an offering circular does not exceed $100,000 computed in accordance with § 230.603,
Provided,
The following conditions are met:
(a) There shall be filed as an exhibit to the notification four copies of a statement setting forth the information (other than financial statements) required by Schedule A or Schedule B to be set forth in an offering circular.
(b) No advertisement, article or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine or other periodical and no radio or television broadcast in regard to the offering shall contain more than the following information:
(1) The name of the issuer of such security;
(2) The title of the security, amount offered, and the per-unit offering price to the public;
(3) The identity of the general type of business of the issuer; and
(4) By whom orders will be filled or from whom further information may be obtained.
(Secs. 3(b) and 3(c), Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c (b) and (c)); sec. 38, Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-37))
[23 FR 10484, Dec. 30, 1958, as amended at 49 FR 35344, Sept. 7, 1984]
§ 230.607
Sales material to be filed.
Four copies of each of the following communications prepared or authorized by the issuer or anyone associated with the issuer, any of its affiliates or any principal underwriter for use in connection with the offering of any securities under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a shall be filed with the Commission at least five days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) prior to any use thereof, or such shorter period as the Commission, in its discretion, may authorize:
(a) Every advertisement, article or other communication proposed to be published in any newspaper, magazine or other periodical;
(b) The script of every radio or television broadcast; and
(c) Every letter, circular or other written communication proposed to be sent, given or otherwise communicated to more than ten persons.
§ 230.608
Prohibition of certain statements.
No offering circular or other written or oral communication used in connection with any offering under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a shall contain any language stating or implying that the Commission has in any way passed upon the merits of, or given approval to, guaranteed or recommended the securities offered or the terms of the offering or has determined that the securities are exempt from registration, or has made any finding that the statements in any such offering circular or other communication are accurate or complete.
§ 230.609
Reports of sales hereunder.
Within 30 days after the end of each six-month period following the date of the original offering circular, or of the statement required by § 230.606, the issuer or other person for whose account the securities are offered shall file with the Commission four copies of a report on Form 2-E
1
containing the information called for by that form. A final report shall be made upon completion or termination of the offering and may be made prior to the end of the six-month period in which the last sale is made.
1
Filed as part of original document.
§ 230.610
Suspension of exemption.
(a) The Commission may, at any time after the filing of a notification, enter an order temporarily suspending the exemption, if it has reason to believe that:
(1) No exemption is available under §§ 230.601 to 230.610a for the securities purported to be offered hereunder or any of the terms or conditions of §§ 230.601 to 230.610a have not been complied with, including failure to file any report as required by § 230.609.
(2) The notification, the offering circular or any other sales literature contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material
fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading;
(3) The offering is being made or would be made in violation of section 17 of the Act;
(4) Any event has occurred after the filing of the notification which would have rendered the exemption hereunder unavailable if it has occurred prior to such filing;
(5) Any person specified in paragraph (b) of § 230.602 has been indicted for any crime or offense of the character specified in paragraph (b)(3) thereof, or any proceeding has been initiated for the purpose of enjoining any such person from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice of the character specified in paragraph (b)(4);
(6) Any person specified in paragraph (c) of § 230.602 has been indicted for any crime or offense of the character specified in paragraph (c)(1) thereof, or any proceeding has been initiated for the purpose of enjoining any such person from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice of the character specified in paragraph (c)(2); or
(7) The issuer or any officer, director or underwriter has failed to cooperate, or has obstructed or refused to permit the making of an investigation by the Commission in connection with any offering made or proposed to be made hereunder.
(b) Upon the entry of an order under paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission will promptly give notice to the persons on whose behalf the notification was filed (1) that such order has been entered, together with a brief statement of the reasons for the entry of the order, and (2) that the Commission, upon receipt of a written request within 30 days after the entry of such order, will, within 20 days after the receipt of such request, set the matter down for hearing at a place to be designated by the Commission. If no hearing is requested and none is ordered by the Commission, the order shall become permanent on the thirtieth day after its entry and shall remain in effect unless or until it is modified or vacated by the Commission. Where a hearing is requested or is ordered by the Commission, the Commission will, after notice of an opportunity for such hearing, either vacate the order or enter an order permanently suspending the exemption.
(c) The Commission may at any time after notice of and opportunity for hearing, enter an order permanently suspending the exemption for any reason upon which it could have entered a temporary suspension order under paragraph (a) of this section. Any such order shall remain in effect until vacated by the Commission.
(d) All notices required by this part shall be given to the person or persons on whose behalf the notification was filed by personal service, registered or certified mail or confirmed telegraphic notice at the addresses of such persons given in the notification.
[23 FR 10484, Dec. 30, 1958, as amended at 29 FR 16982, Dec. 11, 1964]
§ 230.610a
Schedule A: Contents of offering circular for small business investment companies; Schedule B: Contents of offering circular for business development companies.

# Schedule A—Contents of Offering Circular for Small Business Investment Companies

# General Instructions
1. The information in the offering circular should be organized to make it easier to understand the organization and operation of the company. The required information need not be in any particular order, except that Items 1 and 2 must be the first and second items in the offering circular.
2. The offering circular, including the cover page, may contain more information than is called for by this Schedule, provided that it is not incomplete, inaccurate, or misleading. Also, the additional information should not, by its nature, quantity, or manner of presentation, obscure or impede understanding of required information.

# Item 1. Cover Page
The cover page of the offering circular shall include the following information:
(a) The name of the issuer;
(b) The mailing address of the issuer's principal executive offices including the zip code and the issuer's telephone number;
(c) The date of the offering circular;
(d) A list of the type and amount of securities offered (e.g., if the securities offered include redemption or conversion features, so state);
(e) The following statement in capital letters printed in boldface roman type at least as large as ten-point modern type and at least two points leaded:
“THESE SECURITIES ARE OFFERED PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; HOWEVER, THE COMMISSION HAS NOT MADE AN INDEPENDENT DETERMINATION THAT THE SECURITIES BEING OFFERED ARE EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION. THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION DOES NOT PASS UPON THE MERITS OF OR GIVE ITS APPROVAL TO ANY SECURITIES OFFERED OR THE TERMS OF THE OFFERING, NOR DOES IT PASS UPON THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY OFFERING CIRCULAR OR OTHER SELLING LITERATURE.”
(f) The name of the underwriter or underwriters, if applicable;
(g) A cross-reference to the place in the offering circular discussing the material risks involved in purchasing the securities, printed in bold-face roman type at least as high as ten-point modern type and at least two points leaded;
(h) The approximate date when the proposed sale to the public will begin; and
(i) The information called for by the following table shall be given, in substantially the tabular form indicated, on the outside front cover page of the offering circular as to all securities being offered (estimate, if necessary):
Offering price to public
Underwriting discounts and commissions
Proceeds to issuer or other persons
Per share or other unit basis
Total
If the securities are to be offered on a best efforts basis, the cover page should set forth the termination date, if any, of the offering, any minimum required sale, and any arrangements to place the funds received in an escrow, trust, or similar arrangement. The following tabular presentation of the total maximum and minimum securities to be offered should be combined with the table required above:
Offering price to public
Underwriting discounts and commissions
Proceeds to issuer or other persons
Total Minimum
Total Maximum

# Instructions
1. The term
commissions
shall include all cash, securities, contracts, or anything else of value, paid, to be set aside, disposed of, or understandings with or for the benefit of any other persons in which any underwriter is interested, made in connection with the sale of such security.
2. Only commissions paid by the issuer in cash are to be indicated in the table. Commissions paid by other persons or any form of non-cash compensation shall be briefly identified in a note to the table with a cross-reference to a more complete description elsewhere in the offering circular.
3. If the securities are not to be offered for cash, state the basis upon which the offering is to be made.
4. (a) If it is impracticable to state the price to the public, briefly state the method by which the price is to be determined.
(b) Any
finder's fees
or similar payments must be disclosed in a note to the table with a reference to a more complete discussion in the offering circular.
(c) The amount of the expenses of the offering borne by the issuer, including underwriting expenses to be borne by the issuer, should be disclosed in a note to the table.
5. If any of the securities are to be offered for the account of any security holder, state the identity of each selling security holder, the amount owned by him, the amount offered for his account and the amount to be owned after the offering.

# Item 2. General Description of Issuer
(a) Concisely discuss the organization and operation or proposed operation of the issuer. Include the following:
(i) Basic identifying information, including:
(A) The date and form of organization of the issuer and the name of the state under whose laws it is organized;
(B) A brief description of the nature of a small business investment company; and
(C) The classification and subclassification of the issuer as specified in sections 4 and 5 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(ii) A concise description of the investment objectives and policies of the issuer, including:
(A) If those objectives may be changed without a vote of the holders of the majority of the voting securities, a brief statement to that effect; and
(B) A brief discussion of how the issuer proposes to achieve its objectives, including:
(1) The types of securities (for example, bonds, convertible debentures, preferred stocks, common stocks) in which it may invest, and the proportion of the assets which may be invested in each such type of security;
(2) If the issuer proposes to have a policy of concentrating in a particular industry or group of industries, identification of such industry or industries. (Concentration, for purposes of this item, is deemed to be 25% or more of the value of the issuer's total assets invested or proposed to be invested in a particular industry or group of industries).
(C) A concise description of any other policies of the issuer that may not be changed without the vote of the majority of the outstanding voting securities, including those policies which the issuer deems to be fundamental within the meaning of Section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(D) A concise description of those significant investment policies or techniques (such as investing for control or management or investing in other investment companies) that are not described pursuant to subparagraphs (B) or (C) above that issuer employs or has the current intention of employing in the foreseeable future.

# Note:
If the effect of a policy is to prohibit a particular practice, or, if the policy permits a particular practice but the issuer has not employed that practice within the past year and has no current intention of doing so in the foreseeable future, do not include disclosure as to that policy.
(b) Discuss briefly the principal risk factors associated with investment in the issuer, including factors peculiar to the issuer as well as those generally attendant to investment in a small business investment company with investment policies and objectives similar to the issuer.

# Item 3. Plan of Distribution
(a) If the securities are to be offered through underwriters, give the names of the principal underwriters, and state the amounts underwritten by each. Identify each underwriter having a material relationship to the issuer and state the nature of the relationship. State briefly the nature of the underwriters' obligation to take the securities.
(b) State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers, including all cash, securities, contracts or other consideration to be received by any dealer in connection with the sale of the securities.
(c) If
finder's fees
are to be paid, identify the
finder,
the nature of the services rendered and the nature of any relationship between the
finder
and the issuer, its officers, directors, promoters, principal stockholders and underwriters (including any affiliates thereof). If a
finder
is not registered with the Commission as a broker or dealer, disclose that fact.
(d) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of any securities being issued which are to be offered through the selling efforts of brokers or dealers or otherwise than through underwriters.
(e)(1) Describe any arrangements for the return of funds to subscribers if all of the securities to be offered are not sold; if there are no such arrangements, so state.
(2) If there will be material delay in the payment of the proceeds of the offering by the underwriter to the issuer, the nature of the delay and the effects on the issuer should be briefly described.

# Item 4. Management and Certain Security Holders of the Issuer
(a) Give the full names and complete addresses of all directors, officers, members of any advisory board of the issuer and any person who owns more than 5 percent of any class of securities of the issuer (other than the Small Business Administration if the issuer is a small business investment company as defined in § 230.602(a) of this chapter).
(b) Identify each person who as of a specified date no more than 30 days prior to the date of filing of this registration statement, controls the issuer as specified in section 2(a)(9) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(c) Give the business experience over the last five years of any person named in (a) above who is or is expected to be significantly involved in the investment decisions of the issuer or in providing advisory services, direction or control of portfolio companies of the issuer.
(d) State the aggregate annual remuneration of each of the three highest-paid persons who are officers or directors of the issuer and all officers and directors as a group during the issuer's last fiscal year. State the number of persons in the group referred to above without naming them.
(e) Describe all direct and indirect interests (by security holdings or otherwise) of each person named in (a) above (i) in the issuer and (ii) in any material transactions within the past two years or in any material proposed transaction to which the issuer was or is to be a party. Include the cost to such persons of any assets or services for which any payment by or for the account of the issuer has been or is to be made.
(f) Provide, if applicable, for each investment adviser of the issuer as defined in section 2(a)(20) of the Investment Company Act of 1940:
(i) The name and address of the investment adviser and a brief description of its experience as an investment adviser, and, if the investment adviser is controlled by another person, the name of that person and the general nature of its business. (If the investment adviser is subject to more than one level of control, it is sufficient to give the name of the ultimate control person.)
(ii) A brief description of the services provided by the investment adviser. (If, in addition to providing investment advice, the investment adviser or persons employed by or associated with the investment adviser are, subject to the authority of the board of directors, responsible for overall management of issuer's business affairs, it is sufficient to state that fact in lieu of listing all services provided.)
(iii) A brief description of the investment adviser's compensation. (If the issuer has been in operation for a full fiscal year, provide the compensation paid to the adviser for the most recent fiscal year as a percentage of average net assets. No further information is required in response to this Item if the adviser is paid on the basis of a percentage of net assets and if the issuer has neither changed investment advisers nor changed the basis on which the adviser was compensated during the most recent fiscal year. If the fee is paid in some manner other than on the basis of average net assets, briefly describe the basis of payment. If the registrant has not been in operation for a full fiscal year, state generally what the investment adviser's fee will be as a percentage of average net assets, including any breakpoints, but it is not necessary to include precise details as to how the fee is computed or paid.)

# Item 5. Portfolio Companies
Furnish the following information, in the tabular form indicated, with respect to the portfolio companies of the issuer, as of a specified date within 90 days prior to the date of filing the notification with the Commission pursuant to an offering of securities under Regulation E.
Name and address of portfolio companies
Nature of its principal business
Title of securities owned, controlled or held by issuer
Number of shares or amount of loan to portfolio companies
Percentage of class of securities owned, controlled or held by issuer
Value
Percentage of total value of portfolio companies

# Instructions
1. Provide the city and state for address of portfolio companies.
2. State the value as of date of balance sheet required under Item 7.

# Item 6. Capital Stock and Other Securities
(a) Describe concisely the nature and most significant attributes of the security being offered, including: (i) a brief discussion of voting rights; (ii) restrictions, if any, on the right freely to retain or dispose of such security; (iii) conversion rights, if applicable; and (iv) and any material obligations or potential liability associated with ownership of such security (not including risks).
(b) If the rights of holders of such security may be modified otherwise than by a vote of majority or more of the shares outstanding, voting as a class, so state and explain briefly.
(c) If issuer has any other classes of securities outstanding (other than bank borrowings or borrowings that are not senior securities under Section 18(g) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 identify them and state whether they have any preference over the security being offered.
(d) Describe briefly the issuer's policy with respect to dividends and distributions, including any options shareholders may have as to the receipt of such dividends and distributions.
(e) Describe briefly the tax consequences to investors of an investment in the securities being offered. Such description should not include detailed discussions of applicable law. If the issuer intends to qualify for treatment under Subchapter M, it is sufficient, in the absence of special circumstances, to state briefly that in that case: (1) the issuer will distribute all of its net income and gains to shareholders and that such distributions are taxable income or capital gains; (ii) shareholders may be proportionately liable for taxes on income and gains of the issuer but that shareholders not subject to tax on their income will not be required to pay tax on amounts distributed to them; and that (iii) the issuer will inform shareholders of the amount and nature of such income or gains.
(f) Where there is a material disparity between the public offering price and the effective cash cost to officers, directors, promoters and affiliated persons for shares acquired by them in a transaction during the past three years, or which they have a right to acquire, there should be included a comparison of the public contribution under the proposed public offering and the effective cash contribution of such persons. In such cases, and in other instances where the extent of the dilution makes it appropriate, the following shall be given: (1) the net tangible book value per share before and after the distribution; (2) the amount of the increase in such net tangible book value per share attributable to the cash payment made by purchasers of the shares being offered; and (3) the amount of the immediate dilution from the public offering price which will be absorbed by such purchasers.

# Item 7. Financial Statements
Furnish appropriate financial statements of the issuer as required below. Such statements shall be prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and practices. The statements required for the issuer's latest fiscal year shall be certified by an independent public accountant or certified public accountant in accordance with Regulation S-X if the issuer has filed or is required to file with the Commission certified financial statements for such fiscal year; the statements filed for the period or periods preceding such latest year need not be certified.
(a) A blance sheet as of a date within 90 days prior to the date of filing the notification with the Commission.
(b) A profit and loss or income statement for each of the last two fiscal years and for any subsequent period up to the date of the balance sheet furnished pursuant to (a) above.

# Schedule B: Contents of Offering Circular for Business Development Companies

# General Instructions.
Same as General Instructions to Schedule A.
Item 1.
Same as Item 1 of Schedule A.

# Item 2. General Description of Issuer
(a) Concisely discuss the organization and operation or proposed operation of the issuer. Include the following:
(i) Basic identifying information, including:
(A) The date and form of organization of the issuer and the name of the state under the laws of which it is organized; and
(B) A brief description of the nature of a business development company.

# Note:
A business development company having a wholly-owned small business investment company subsidiary should disclose how the subsidiary is regulated, e.g., as an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and what percentage of the parent company's assets are, or are expected to be, invested in the subsidiary. The business development company should also describe the small business investment company's operations, including any material difference in investment policies between the business development company and its small business investment company subsidiary.
(ii) A concise description of the investment objectives and policies of the issuer, including:
(A) If those objectives may be changed without a vote of the holders of the majority of the voting securities, a brief statement to that effect; and
(B) A brief discussion of how the issuer proposes to achieve such objectives, including:
(1) The types of securities (for example, bonds, convertible debentures, preferred stocks, common stock) in which it may invest, indicating the proportion of the assets which may be invested in each such type of security;
(2) The issuer proposes to have a policy of concentrating in a particular industry or group of industries, identification of such industry or industries. (Concentration, for purposes of this item, is deemed to be 25% or more of the value of the issuer's total assets invested or proposed to be invested in a particular industry or group of industries).
(3) In companies for the purpose of exercising control or management;
(4) The policy with respect to any assets that are not required to be invested in eligible portfolio companies or other companies qualifying under section 55 of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(5) The policy with respect to rendering significant managerial assistance to eligible portfolio companies or other companies qualifying under section 55 of the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(6) The policy with respect to investing as part of a group.
(C) Identification of any other policies of the issuer that may not be changed without the vote of the majority of the outstanding voting securities, including the policy not to withdraw its election as a business development company without approval by the majority of the outstanding voting securities.
(D) A concise description of those significant investment policies or techniques (such as investing for control or management) that are not described pursuant to subparagraphs (B) or (C) above that the issuer employs or has the current intention of employing in the forseeable future.
(b) Discuss briefly the principal risk factors associated with investment in the issuer, including factors peculiar to the issuer as well as those generally attendant to investment in a business development company with investment policies and objectives similar to the issuer.
Item 3.
Same as Item 3 of Schedule A.
Item 4.
Same as Item 4 of Schedule A.
Item 5.
Same as Item 5 of Schedule A.
Item 6.
Same as Item 6 of Schedule A.
Item 7.
Same as Item 7 of Schedule A.
(Secs. 3(b) and 3(c), Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c (b) and (c)); sec. 38, Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-37))
[49 FR 35345, Sept. 7, 1984]
§§ 230.651-230.656
[Reserved]
§ 230.701
Exemption for offers and sales of securities pursuant to certain compensatory benefit plans and contracts relating to compensation.

# Preliminary Notes:
1. This section relates to transactions exempted from the registration requirements of section 5 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e). These transactions are not exempt from the antifraud, civil liability, or other provisions of the federal securities laws. Issuers and persons acting on their behalf have an obligation to provide investors with disclosure adequate to satisfy the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws.
2. In addition to complying with this section, the issuer also must comply with any applicable state law relating to the offer and sale of securities.
3. An issuer that attempts to comply with this section, but fails to do so, may claim any other exemption that is available.
4. This section is available only to the issuer of the securities. Affiliates of the issuer may not use this section to offer or sell securities. This section also does not cover resales of securities by any person. This section provides an exemption only for the transactions in which the securities are offered or sold by the issuer, not for the securities themselves.
5. The purpose of this section is to provide an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act for securities issued in compensatory circumstances. This section is not available for plans or schemes to circumvent this purpose, such as to raise capital. This section also is not available to exempt any transaction that is in technical compliance with this section but is part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration provisions of the Act. In any of these cases, registration under the Act is required unless another exemption is available.
(a)
Exemption.
Offers and sales made in compliance with all of the conditions of this section are exempt from section 5 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e).
(b)
Issuers eligible to use this section
—(1)
General.
This section is available to any issuer that is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) and is not an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
).
(2)
Issuers that become subject to reporting.
If an issuer becomes subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) after it has made offers complying with this section, the issuer may nevertheless rely on this section to sell the securities previously offered to the persons to whom those offers were made.
(3)
Guarantees by reporting companies.
An issuer subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m, 78o(d)) may rely on this section if it is merely guaranteeing the payment of a subsidiary's securities that are sold under this section.
(c)
Transactions exempted by this section.
This section exempts offers and sales of securities (including plan interests and guarantees pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section) under a written compensatory benefit plan (or written compensation contract) established by the issuer, its parents, its majority-owned subsidiaries or majority-owned subsidiaries of the issuer's parent, for the participation of their employees, directors, general partners, trustees (where the issuer is a business trust), officers, or consultants and advisors, and their family members who acquire such securities from such persons through gifts or domestic relations orders. This section exempts offers and sales to former employees, directors, general partners, trustees, officers, consultants and advisors only if such persons were employed by or providing services to the issuer at the time the securities were offered. In addition, the term “employee” includes insurance agents who are exclusive agents of the issuer, its subsidiaries or parents, or derive more than 50% of their annual income from those entities.
(1)
Special requirements for consultants and advisors.
This section is available to consultants and advisors only if:
(i) They are natural persons;
(ii) They provide
bona fide
services to the issuer, its parents, its majority-owned subsidiaries or majority-owned subsidiaries of the issuer's parent; and
(iii) The services are not in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction, and do not directly or indirectly promote or
maintain a market for the issuer's securities.
(2)
Definition of “compensatory benefit plan.”
For purposes of this section, a
compensatory benefit plan
is any purchase, savings, option, bonus, stock appreciation, profit sharing, thrift, incentive, deferred compensation, pension or similar plan.
(3)
Definition of “family member.”
For purposes of this section,
family member
includes any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the employee's household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than fifty percent of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the employee) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the employee) own more than fifty percent of the voting interests.
(d)
Amounts that may be sold
—(1)
Offers.
Any amount of securities may be offered in reliance on this section. However, for purposes of this section, sales of securities underlying options must be counted as sales on the date of the option grant.
(2)
Sales.
The aggregate sales price or amount of securities sold in reliance on this section during any consecutive 12-month period must not exceed the greatest of the following:
(i) $1,000,000;
(ii) 15% of the total assets of the issuer (or of the issuer's parent if the issuer is a wholly-owned subsidiary and the securities represent obligations that the parent fully and unconditionally guarantees), measured at the issuer's most recent balance sheet date (if no older than its last fiscal year end); or
(iii) 15% of the outstanding amount of the class of securities being offered and sold in reliance on this section, measured at the issuer's most recent balance sheet date (if no older than its last fiscal year end).
(3)
Rules for calculating prices and amounts
—(i)
Aggregate sales price.
The term
aggregate sales price
means the sum of all cash, property, notes, cancellation of debt or other consideration received or to be received by the issuer for the sale of the securities. Non-cash consideration must be valued by reference to
bona fide
sales of that consideration made within a reasonable time or, in the absence of such sales, on the fair value as determined by an accepted standard. The value of services exchanged for securities issued must be measured by reference to the value of the securities issued. Options must be valued based on the exercise price of the option.
(ii)
Time of the calculation.
With respect to options to purchase securities, the aggregate sales price is determined when an option grant is made (without regard to when the option becomes exercisable). With respect to other securities, the calculation is made on the date of sale. With respect to deferred compensation or similar plans, the calculation is made when the irrevocable election to defer is made.
(iii)
Derivative securities.
In calculating outstanding securities for purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, treat the securities underlying all currently exercisable or convertible options, warrants, rights or other securities, other than those issued under this exemption, as outstanding. In calculating the amount of securities sold for other purposes of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, count the amount of securities that would be acquired upon exercise or conversion in connection with sales of options, warrants, rights or other exercisable or convertible securities, including those to be issued under this exemption.
(iv)
Other exemptions.
Amounts of securities sold in reliance on this section do not affect “aggregate offering prices” in other exemptions, and amounts of securities sold in reliance on other exemptions do not affect the amount that may be sold in reliance on this section.
(e)
Disclosure that must be provided.
The issuer must deliver to investors a copy of the compensatory benefit plan or the contract, as applicable. In addition, if the aggregate sales price or amount of securities sold during any consecutive 12-month period exceeds $10 million, the issuer must deliver the
following disclosure to investors a reasonable period of time before the date of sale:
(1) If the plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) (29 U.S.C. 1104-1107), a copy of the summary plan description required by ERISA;
(2) If the plan is not subject to ERISA, a summary of the material terms of the plan;
(3) Information about the risks associated with investment in the securities sold pursuant to the compensatory benefit plan or compensation contract; and
(4) Financial statements required to be furnished by Part F/S of Form 1-A (Regulation A Offering Statement) (§ 239.90 of this chapter) under Regulation A (§§ 230.251 through 230.263). Foreign private issuers as defined in Rule 405 must provide a reconciliation to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP) if their financial statements are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (Item 17 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter)). The financial statements required by this section must be as of a date no more than 180 days before the sale of securities in reliance on this exemption.
(5) If the issuer is relying on paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to use its parent's total assets to determine the amount of securities that may be sold, the parent's financial statements must be delivered. If the parent is subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)), the financial statements of the parent required by Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X (§ 210.10-01 of this chapter) and Item 310 of Regulation D-B (§ 228.310 of this chapter), as applicable, must be delivered.
(6) If the sale involves a stock option or other derivative security, the issuer must deliver disclosure a reasonable period of time before the date of exercise or conversion. For deferred compensation or similar plans, the issuer must deliver disclosure to investors a reasonable period of time before the date the irrevocable election to defer is made.
(f)
No integration with other offerings.
Offers and sales exempt under this section are deemed to be a part of a single, discrete offering and are not subject to integration with any other offers or sales, whether registered under the Act or otherwise exempt from the registration requirements of the Act.
(g)
Resale limitations.
(1) Securities issued under this section are deemed to be “restricted securities” as defined in § 230.144.
(2) Resales of securities issued pursuant to this section must be in compliance with the registration requirements of the Act or an exemption from those requirements.
(3) Ninety days after the issuer becomes subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)), securities issued under this section may be resold by persons who are not affiliates (as defined in § 230.144) in reliance on § 230.144, without compliance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 230.144, and by affiliates without compliance with paragraph (d) of § 230.144.
[64 FR 11101, Mar. 8, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 61498, Nov. 12, 1999; 72 FR 71571, Dec. 17, 2007; 73 FR 1009, Jan. 4, 2008; 83 FR 34944, July 24, 2018]
§§ 230.702(T)-230.703(T)
[Reserved]

# Exemptions for Cross-Border Rights Offerings, Exchange Offers and Business Combinations

# Source:
Sections 230.800 through 230.802 appear at 64 FR 61400, Nov. 10, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# General Notes to §§ 230.800, 230.801 and 230.802
1. Sections 230.801 and 230.802 relate only to the applicability of the registration provisions of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e) and not to the applicability of the anti-fraud, civil liability or other provisions of the federal securities laws.
2. The exemptions provided by § 230.801 and § 230.802 are not available for any securities transaction or series of transactions that technically complies with § 230.801 and § 230.802 but are part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration provisions of the Act.
3. An issuer who relies on § 230.801 or an offeror who relies on § 230.802 must still comply with the securities registration or broker-
dealer registration requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
) and any other applicable provisions of the federal securities laws.
4. An issuer who relies on § 230.801 or an offeror who relies on § 230.802 must still comply with any applicable state laws relating to the offer and sale of securities.
5. Attempted compliance with § 230.801 or § 230.802 does not act as an exclusive election; an issuer making an offer or sale of securities in reliance on § 230.801 or § 230.802 may also rely on any other applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Act.
6. Section 230.801 and § 230.802 provide exemptions only for the issuer of the securities and not for any affiliate of that issuer or for any other person for resales of the issuer's securities. These sections provide exemptions only for the transaction in which the issuer or other person offers or sells the securities, not for the securities themselves. Securities acquired in a § 230.801 or § 230.802 transaction may be resold in the United States only if they are registered under the Act or an exemption from registration is available.
7. Unregistered offers and sales made outside the United States will not affect contemporaneous offers and sales made in compliance with § 230.801 or § 230.802. A transaction that complies with § 230.801 or § 230.802 will not be integrated with offerings exempt under other provisions of the Act, even if both transactions occur at the same time.
8. Securities acquired in a rights offering under § 230.801 are “restricted securities” within the meaning of § 230.144(a)(3) to the same extent and proportion that the securities held by the security holder as of the record date for the rights offering were restricted securities. Likewise, securities acquired in an exchange offer or business combination subject to § 230.802 are “restricted securities” within the meaning of § 230.144(a)(3) to the same extent and proportion that the securities tendered or exchanged by the security holder in that transaction were restricted securities.
9. Section 230.801 does not apply to a rights offering by an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), other than a registered closed-end investment company. Section 230.802 does not apply to exchange offers or business combinations by an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), other than a registered closed-end investment company.
§ 230.800
Definitions for §§ 230.800, 230.801 and 230.802.
The following definitions apply in §§ 230.800, 230.801 and 230.802.
(a)
Business combination. Business combination
means a statutory amalgamation, merger, arrangement or other reorganization requiring the vote of security holders of one or more of the participating companies. It also includes a statutory short form merger that does not require a vote of security holders.
(b)
Equity security. Equity security
means the same as in § 240.3a11-1 of this chapter, but for purposes of this section only does not include:
(1) Any debt security that is convertible into an equity security, with or without consideration;
(2) Any debt security that includes a warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase an equity security;
(3) Any such warrant or right; or
(4) Any put, call, straddle, or other option or privilege that gives the holder the option of buying or selling a security but does not require the holder to do so.
(c)
Exchange offer. Exchange offer
means a tender offer in which securities are issued as consideration.
(d)
Foreign private issuer. Foreign private issuer
means the same as in § 230.405 of Regulation C.
(e)
Foreign subject company. Foreign subject company
means any foreign private issuer whose securities are the subject of the exchange offer or business combination.
(f)
Home jurisdiction. Home jurisdiction
means both the jurisdiction of the foreign subject company's (or in the case of a rights offering, the foreign private issuer's) incorporation, organization or chartering and the principal foreign market where the foreign subject company's (or in the case of a rights offering, the issuer's) securities are listed or quoted.
(g)
Rights offering. Rights offering
means offers and sales for cash of equity securities where:
(1) The issuer grants the existing security holders of a particular class of equity securities (including holders of depositary receipts evidencing those securities) the right to purchase or subscribe for additional securities of that class; and
(2) The number of additional shares an existing security holder may purchase initially is in proportion to the number of securities he or she holds of record on the record date for the rights offering. If an existing security holder holds depositary receipts, the proportion must be calculated as if the underlying securities were held directly.
(h)
U.S. holder. U.S. holder
means any security holder resident in the United States. To determine the percentage of outstanding securities held by U.S. holders:
(1) Calculate the percentage of outstanding securities held by U.S. holders as of a date no more than 60 days before or 30 days after the public announcement of a business combination conducted under § 230.802 under the Act or of the record date in a rights offering conducted under § 230.801 under the Act. For a business combination conducted under § 230.802, if you are unable to calculate as of a date within these time frames, the calculation may be made as of the most recent practicable date before public announcement, but in no event earlier than 120 days before public announcement.
(2) Include securities underlying American Depositary Shares convertible or exchangeable into the securities that are the subject of the tender offer when calculating the number of subject securities outstanding, as well as the number held by U.S. holders. Exclude from the calculation other types of securities that are convertible or exchangeable into the securities that are the subject of the tender offer, such as warrants, options and convertible securities. Exclude from those calculations securities held by the acquiror in an exchange offer or business combination;
(3) Use the method of calculating record ownership in Rule 12g3-2(a) under the Exchange Act (§ 240.12g3-2(a) of this chapter), except that your inquiry as to the amount of securities represented by accounts of customers resident in the United States may be limited to brokers, dealers, banks and other nominees located in the United States, the subject company's jurisdiction of incorporation or that of each participant in a business combination, and the jurisdiction that is the primary trading market for the subject securities, if different from the subject company's jurisdiction of incorporation;
(4) If, after reasonable inquiry, you are unable to obtain information about the amount of securities represented by accounts of customers resident in the United States, you may assume, for purposes of this provision, that the customers are residents of the jurisdiction in which the nominee has its principal place of business.
(5) Count securities as owned by U.S. holders when publicly filed reports of beneficial ownership or information that is otherwise provided to you indicates that the securities are held by U.S. residents.
(6) For exchange offers conducted pursuant to § 230.802 under the Act by persons other than the issuer of the subject securities or its affiliates that are not made pursuant to an agreement with the issuer of the subject securities, the issuer of the subject securities will be presumed to be a foreign private issuer and U.S. holders will be presumed to hold 10 percent or less of the outstanding subject securities, unless paragraphs (h)(7)(i), (ii) or (iii) of this section indicate otherwise.
(7) For rights offerings and business combinations, including exchange offers conducted pursuant to § 230.802 under the Act, where the offeror is unable to conduct the analysis of U.S. ownership set forth in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the issuer of the subject securities will be presumed to be a foreign private issuer and U.S. holders will be presumed to hold 10 percent or less of the outstanding subject securities so long as there is a primary trading market for the subject securities outside the United States, as defined in § 240.12h-6(f)(5) of this chapter, unless:
(i) Average daily trading volume of the subject securities in the United States for a recent twelve-month period ending on a date no more than 60 days before the public announcement of the business combination or of the record date for a rights offering exceeds 10 percent of the average daily trading volume of that class of securities on a worldwide basis for the same period; or
(ii) The most recent annual report or annual information filed or submitted by the issuer with securities regulators of the home jurisdiction or with the Commission or any jurisdiction in which the subject securities trade before the public announcement of the offer indicates that U.S. holders hold more than 10 percent of the outstanding subject class of securities; or
(iii) The acquiror or issuer knows or has reason to know, before the public announcement of the offer, that the level of U.S. ownership exceeds 10 percent of such securities. As an example, an acquiror or issuer is deemed to know information about U.S. ownership of the subject class of securities that is publicly available and that appears in any filing with the Commission or any regulatory body in the issuer's jurisdiction of incorporation or (if different) the non-U.S. jurisdiction in which the primary trading market for the subject securities is located. The acquiror in a business combination is deemed to know information about U.S. ownership available from the issuer. The acquiror or issuer is deemed to know information obtained or readily available from any other source that is reasonably reliable, including from persons it has retained to advise it about the transaction, as well as from third-party information providers. These examples are not intended to be exclusive.
(i)
United States. United States
means the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
[64 FR 61400, Nov. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 60087, Oct. 9, 2008]
§ 230.801
Exemption in connection with a rights offering.
A rights offering is exempt from the provisions of Section 5 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e), so long as the following conditions are satisfied:
(a)
Conditions
—(1)
Eligibility of issuer.
The issuer is a foreign private issuer on the date the securities are first offered to U.S. holders.
(2)
Limitation on U.S. ownership.
U.S. holders hold no more than 10 percent of the outstanding class of securities that is the subject of the rights offering (as determined under the definition of “U.S. holder” in § 230.800(h)).
(3)
Equal treatment.
The issuer permits U.S. holders to participate in the rights offering on terms at least as favorable as those offered the other holders of the securities that are the subject of the offer. The issuer need not, however, extend the rights offering to security holders in those states or jurisdictions that require registration or qualification.
(4)
Informational documents.
(i) If the issuer publishes or otherwise disseminates an informational document to the holders of the securities in connection with the rights offering, the issuer must furnish that informational document, including any amendments thereto, in English, to the Commission on Form CB (§ 239.800 of this chapter) by the first business day after publication or dissemination. If the issuer is a foreign company, it must also file a Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) with the Commission at the same time as the submission of Form CB to appoint an agent for service in the United States.
(ii) The issuer must disseminate any informational document to U.S. holders, including any amendments thereto, in English, on a comparable basis to that provided to security holders in the home jurisdiction.
(iii) If the issuer disseminates by publication in its home jurisdiction, the issuer must publish the information in the United States in a manner reasonably calculated to inform U.S. holders of the offer.
(5)
Eligibility of securities.
The securities offered in the rights offering are equity securities of the same class as the securities held by the offerees in the United States directly or through American Depositary Receipts.
(6)
Limitation on transferability of rights.
The terms of the rights prohibit transfers of the rights by U.S. holders except in accordance with Regulation S (§ 230.901 through § 230.905).
(b)
Legends.
The following legend or an equivalent statement in clear, plain language, to the extent applicable, appears on the cover page or other prominent portion of any informational document the issuer disseminates to U.S. holders:
This rights offering is made for the securities of a foreign company. The offer is subject to the disclosure requirements of a foreign country that are different from those of the United States. Financial statements included in the document, if any, have been prepared in accordance with foreign accounting standards that may not be comparable to the financial statements of United States companies.
It may be difficult for you to enforce your rights and any claim you may have arising under the federal securities laws, since the issuer is located in a foreign country, and some or all of its officers and directors may be residents of a foreign country. You may not be able to sue the foreign company or its officers or directors in a foreign court for violations of the U.S. securities laws. It may be difficult to compel a foreign company and its affiliates to subject themselves to a U.S. court's judgment.
§ 230.802
Exemption for offerings in connection with an exchange offer or business combination for the securities of foreign private issuers.
Offers and sales in any exchange offer for a class of securities of a foreign private issuer, or in any exchange of securities for the securities of a foreign private issuer in any business combination, are exempt from the provisions of section 5 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77e), if they satisfy the following conditions:
(a)
Conditions to be met
—(1)
Limitation on U.S. ownership.
Except in the case of an exchange offer or business combination that is commenced during the pendency of a prior exchange offer or business combination made in reliance on this paragraph, U.S. holders of the foreign subject company must hold no more than 10 percent of the securities that are the subject of the exchange offer or business combination (as determined under the definition of “U.S. holder” in § 230.800(h)). In the case of a business combination in which the securities are to be issued by a successor registrant, U.S. holders may hold no more than 10 percent of the class of securities of the successor registrant, as if measured immediately after completion of the business combination.
(2)
Equal treatment.
The offeror must permit U.S. holders to participate in the exchange offer or business combination on terms at least as favorable as those offered any other holder of the subject securities. The offeror, however, need not extend the offer to security holders in those states or jurisdictions that require registration or qualification, except that the offeror must offer the same cash alternative to security holders in any such state that it has offered to security holders in any other state or jurisdiction.
(3)
Informational documents.
(i) If the offeror publishes or otherwise disseminates an informational document to the holders of the subject securities in connection with the exchange offer or business combination, the offeror must furnish that informational document, including any amendments thereto, in English, to the Commission on Form CB (§ 239.800 of this chapter) by the first business day after publication or dissemination. If the offeror is a foreign company, it must also file a Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) with the Commission at the same time as the submission of the Form CB to appoint an agent for service of process in the United States.
(ii) The offeror must disseminate any informational document to U.S. holders, including any amendments thereto, in English, on a comparable basis to that provided to security holders in the foreign subject company's home jurisdiction.
(iii) If the offeror disseminates by publication in its home jurisdiction, the offeror must publish the information in the United States in a manner reasonably calculated to inform U.S. holders of the offer.
(b)
Legends.
The following legend or an equivalent statement in clear, plain language, to the extent applicable, must be included on the cover page or other prominent portion of any informational document the offeror publishes or disseminates to U.S. holders:
This exchange offer or business combination is made for the securities of a foreign company. The offer is subject to disclosure requirements of a foreign country that are different from those of the United States. Financial statements included in the document, if any, have been prepared in accordance with foreign accounting standards that may not be comparable to the financial statements of United States companies.
It may be difficult for you to enforce your rights and any claim you may have arising under the federal securities laws, since the issuer is located in a foreign country, and some or all of its officers and directors may
be residents of a foreign country. You may not be able to sue a foreign company or its officers or directors in a foreign court for violations of the U.S. securities laws. It may be difficult to compel a foreign company and its affiliates to subject themselves to a U.S. court's judgment.
You should be aware that the issuer may purchase securities otherwise than under the exchange offer, such as in open market or privately negotiated purchases.
[64 FR 61400, Nov. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 60088, Oct. 9, 2008]

# Regulation S—Rules Governing Offers and Sales Made Outside the United States Without Registration Under the Securities Act of 1933

# Source:
Sections 230.901 through 230.904 appear at 55 FR 18322, May 2, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Preliminary Notes:
1. The following rules relate solely to the application of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 (the
Act
) [15 U.S.C. 77e] and not to antifraud or other provisions of the federal securities laws.
2. In view of the objective of these rules and the policies underlying the Act, Regulation S is not available with respect to any transaction or series of transactions that, although in technical compliance with these rules, is part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration provisions of the Act. In such cases, registration under the Act is required.
3. Nothing in these rules obviates the need for any issuer or any other person to comply with the securities registration or broker-dealer registration requirements of the Securities Exchange Act (the
Exchange Act
), whenever such requirements are applicable.
4. Nothing in these rules obviates the need to comply with any applicable state law relating to the offer and sale of securities.
5. Attempted compliance with any rule in Regulation S does not act as an exclusive election; a person making an offer or sale of securities may also claim the availability of any applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Act. The availability of the Regulation S safe harbor to offers and sales that occur outside of the United States will not be affected by the subsequent offer and sale of these securities into the United States or to U.S. persons during the distribution compliance period, as long as the subsequent offer and sale are made pursuant to registration or an exemption therefrom under the Act.
6. Regulation S is available only for offers and sales of securities outside the United States. Securities acquired overseas, whether or not pursuant to Regulation S, may be resold in the United States only if they are registered under the Act or an exemption from registration is available.
7. Nothing in these rules precludes access by journalists for publications with a general circulation in the United States to offshore press conferences, press releases and meetings with company press spokespersons in which an offshore offering or tender offer is discussed, provided that the information is made available to the foreign and United States press generally and is not intended to induce purchases of securities by persons in the United States or tenders of securities by United States holders in the case of exchange offers. Where applicable, issuers and bidders may also look to § 230.135e and § 240.14d-1(c) of this chapter.
8. The provisions of this Regulation S shall not apply to offers and sales of securities issued by open-end investment companies or unit investment trusts registered or required to be registered or closed-end investment companies required to be registered, but not registered, under the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
] (the
1940 Act
).
[55 FR 18322, May 2, 1990, as amended at 62 FR 53954, Oct. 17, 1997; 63 FR 9642, Feb. 25, 1998]
§ 230.901
General statement.
For the purposes only of section 5 of the Act (15 U.S.C. § 77e), the terms
offer, offer to sell, sell, sale,
and
offer to buy
shall be deemed to include offers and sales that occur within the United States and shall be deemed not to include offers and sales that occur outside the United States.
§ 230.902
Definitions.
As used in Regulation S, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated.
(a)
Debt securities.
“Debt securities” of an issuer is defined to mean any security other than an equity security as defined in § 230.405, as well as the following:
(1) Non-participatory preferred stock, which is defined as non-convertible capital stock, the holders of which are entitled to a preference in payment of dividends and in distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the issuer, but are not entitled to participate in residual earnings or assets of the issuer; and
(2) Asset-backed securities, which are securities of a type that either:
(i) Represent an ownership interest in a pool of discrete assets, or certificates of interest or participation in such assets (including any rights designed to assure servicing, or the receipt or timeliness of receipt by holders of such assets, or certificates of interest or participation in such assets, of amounts payable thereunder), provided that the assets are not generated or originated between the issuer of the security and its affiliates; or
(ii) Are secured by one or more assets or certificates of interest or participation in such assets, and the securities, by their terms, provide for payments of principal and interest (if any) in relation to payments or reasonable projections of payments on assets meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, or certificates of interest or participations in assets meeting such requirements.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the term “assets” means securities, installment sales, accounts receivable, notes, leases or other contracts, or other assets that by their terms convert into cash over a finite period of time.
(b)
Designated offshore securities market.
“Designated offshore securities market” means:
(1) The Eurobond market, as regulated by the International Securities Market Association; the Alberta Stock Exchange; the Amsterdam Stock Exchange; the Australian Stock Exchange Limited; the Bermuda Stock Exchange; the Bourse de Bruxelles; the Copenhagen Stock Exchange; the European Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation; the Frankfurt Stock Exchange; the Helsinki Stock Exchange; The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited; the Irish Stock Exchange; the Istanbul Stock Exchange; the Johannesburg Stock Exchange; the London Stock Exchange; the Bourse de Luxembourg; the Mexico Stock Exchange; the Borsa Valori di Milan; the Montreal Stock Exchange; the Oslo Stock Exchange; the Bourse de Paris; the Stock Exchange of Singapore Ltd.; the Stockholm Stock Exchange; the Tokyo Stock Exchange; the Toronto Stock Exchange; the Vancouver Stock Exchange; the Warsaw Stock Exchange and the Zurich Stock Exchange; and
(2) Any foreign securities exchange or non-exchange market designated by the Commission. Attributes to be considered in determining whether to designate an offshore securities market, among others, include:
(i) Organization under foreign law;
(ii) Association with a generally recognized community of brokers, dealers, banks, or other professional intermediaries with an established operating history;
(iii) Oversight by a governmental or self-regulatory body;
(iv) Oversight standards set by an existing body of law;
(v) Reporting of securities transactions on a regular basis to a governmental or self-regulatory body;
(vi) A system for exchange of price quotations through common communications media; and
(vii) An organized clearance and settlement system.
(c)
Directed selling efforts.
(1) “Directed selling efforts” means any activity undertaken for the purpose of, or that could reasonably be expected to have the effect of, conditioning the market in the United States for any of the securities being offered in reliance on this Regulation S (§ 230.901 through § 230.905, and Preliminary Notes). Such activity includes placing an advertisement in a publication “with a general circulation in the United States” that refers to the offering of securities being made in reliance upon this Regulation S.
(2) Publication “with a general circulation in the United States”:
(i) Is defined as any publication that is printed primarily for distribution in the United States, or has had, during the preceding twelve months, an average circulation in the United States of 15,000 or more copies per issue; and
(ii) Will encompass only the U.S. edition of any publication printing a separate U.S. edition if the publication, without considering its U.S. edition, would not constitute a publication with a general circulation in the United States.
(3) The following are not “directed selling efforts”:
(i) Placing an advertisement required to be published under U.S. or foreign law, or under rules or regulations of a
U.S. or foreign regulatory or self-regulatory authority, provided the advertisement contains no more information than legally required and includes a statement to the effect that the securities have not been registered under the Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States (or to a U.S. person, if the advertisement relates to an offering under Category 2 or 3 (paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3)) in § 230.903) absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements;
(ii) Contact with persons excluded from the definition of “U.S. person” pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(vi) of this section or persons holding accounts excluded from the definition of “U.S. person” pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section, solely in their capacities as holders of such accounts;
(iii) A tombstone advertisement in any publication with a general circulation in the United States, provided:
(A) The publication has less than 20% of its circulation, calculated by aggregating the circulation of its U.S. and comparable non-U.S. editions, in the United States;
(B) Such advertisement contains a legend to the effect that the securities have not been registered under the Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States (or to a U.S. person, if the advertisement relates to an offering under Category 2 or 3 (paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3)) in § 230.903) absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements; and
(C) Such advertisement contains no more information than:
(
1
) The issuer's name;
(
2
) The amount and title of the securities being sold;
(
3
) A brief indication of the issuer's general type of business;
(
4
) The price of the securities;
(
5
) The yield of the securities, if debt securities with a fixed (non-contingent) interest provision;
(
6
) The name and address of the person placing the advertisement, and whether such person is participating in the distribution;
(
7
) The names of the managing underwriters;
(
8
) The dates, if any, upon which the sales commenced and concluded;
(
9
) Whether the securities are offered or were offered by rights issued to security holders and, if so, the class of securities that are entitled or were entitled to subscribe, the subscription ratio, the record date, the dates (if any) upon which the rights were issued and expired, and the subscription price; and
(
10
) Any legend required by law or any foreign or U.S. regulatory or self-regulatory authority;
(iv) Bona fide visits to real estate, plants or other facilities located in the United States and tours thereof conducted for a prospective investor by an issuer, a distributor, any of their respective affiliates or a person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing;
(v) Distribution in the United States of a foreign broker-dealer's quotations by a third-party system that distributes such quotations primarily in foreign countries if:
(A) Securities transactions cannot be executed between foreign broker-dealers and persons in the United States through the system; and
(B) The issuer, distributors, their respective affiliates, persons acting on behalf of any of the foregoing, foreign broker-dealers and other participants in the system do not initiate contacts with U.S. persons or persons within the United States, beyond those contacts exempted under § 240.15a-6 of this chapter;
(vi) Publication by an issuer of a notice in accordance with § 230.135 or § 230.135c;
(vii) Providing any journalist with access to press conferences held outside of the United States, to meetings with the issuer or selling security holder representatives conducted outside the United States, or to written press-related materials released outside the United States, at or in which a present or proposed offering of securities is discussed, if the requirements of § 230.135e are satisfied; and
(viii) Publication or distribution of a research report by a broker or dealer in accordance with Rule 138(c) (§ 230.138(c)) or Rule 139(b) (§ 230.139(b)).
(d)
Distributor.
“Distributor” means any underwriter, dealer, or other person who participates, pursuant to a
contractual arrangement, in the distribution of the securities offered or sold in reliance on this Regulation S (§ 230.901 through § 230.905, and Preliminary Notes).
(e)
Domestic issuer/Foreign issuer.
“Domestic issuer” means any issuer other than a “foreign government” or “foreign private issuer” (both as defined in § 230.405). “Foreign issuer” means any issuer other than a “domestic issuer.”
(f)
Distribution compliance period.
“Distribution compliance period” means a period that begins when the securities were first offered to persons other than distributors in reliance upon this Regulation S (§ 230.901 through § 230.905, and Preliminary Notes) or the date of closing of the offering, whichever is later, and continues until the end of the period of time specified in the relevant provision of § 230.903, except that:
(1) All offers and sales by a distributor of an unsold allotment or subscription shall be deemed to be made during the distribution compliance period;
(2) In a continuous offering, the distribution compliance period shall commence upon completion of the distribution, as determined and certified by the managing underwriter or person performing similar functions;
(3) In a continuous offering of non-convertible debt securities offered and sold in identifiable tranches, the distribution compliance period for securities in a tranche shall commence upon completion of the distribution of such tranche, as determined and certified by the managing underwriter or person performing similar functions; and
(4) That in a continuous offering of securities to be acquired upon the exercise of warrants, the distribution compliance period shall commence upon completion of the distribution of the warrants, as determined and certified by the managing underwriter or person performing similar functions, if requirements of § 230.903(b)(5) are satisfied.
(g)
Offering restrictions.
“Offering restrictions” means:
(1) Each distributor agrees in writing:
(i) That all offers and sales of the securities prior to the expiration of the distribution compliance period specified in Category 2 or 3 (paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3)) in § 230.903, as applicable, shall be made only in accordance with the provisions of § 230.903 or § 230.904; pursuant to registration of the securities under the Act; or pursuant to an available exemption from the registration requirements of the Act; and
(ii) For offers and sales of equity securities of domestic issuers, not to engage in hedging transactions with regard to such securities prior to the expiration of the distribution compliance period specified in Category 2 or 3 (paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3)) in § 230.903, as applicable, unless in compliance with the Act; and
(2) All offering materials and documents (other than press releases) used in connection with offers and sales of the securities prior to the expiration of the distribution compliance period specified in Category 2 or 3 (paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3)) in § 230.903, as applicable, shall include statements to the effect that the securities have not been registered under the Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons (other than distributors) unless the securities are registered under the Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act is available. For offers and sales of equity securities of domestic issuers, such offering materials and documents also must state that hedging transactions involving those securities may not be conducted unless in compliance with the Act. Such statements shall appear:
(i) On the cover or inside cover page of any prospectus or offering circular used in connection with the offer or sale of the securities;
(ii) In the underwriting section of any prospectus or offering circular used in connection with the offer or sale of the securities; and
(iii) In any advertisement made or issued by the issuer, any distributor, any of their respective affiliates, or any person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing. Such statements may appear in summary form on prospectus cover pages and in advertisements.
(h)
Offshore transaction.
(1) An offer or sale of securities is made in an “offshore transaction” if:
(i) The offer is not made to a person in the United States; and
(ii) Either:
(A) At the time the buy order is originated, the buyer is outside the United States, or the seller and any person acting on its behalf reasonably believe that the buyer is outside the United States; or
(B) For purposes of:
(
1
) Section 230.903, the transaction is executed in, on or through a physical trading floor of an established foreign securities exchange that is located outside the United States; or
(
2
) Section 230.904, the transaction is executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market described in paragraph (b) of this section, and neither the seller nor any person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction has been pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(1) of this section, offers and sales of securities specifically targeted at identifiable groups of U.S. citizens abroad, such as members of the U.S. armed forces serving overseas, shall not be deemed to be made in “offshore transactions.”
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(1) of this section, offers and sales of securities to persons excluded from the definition of “U.S. person” pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(vi) of this section or persons holding accounts excluded from the definition of “U.S. person” pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section, solely in their capacities as holders of such accounts, shall be deemed to be made in “offshore transactions.”
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(1) of this section, publication or distribution of a research report in accordance with Rule 138(c) (§ 230.138(c)) or Rule 139(b) (§ 230.139(b)) by a broker or dealer at or around the time of an offering in reliance on Regulation S (§§ 230.901 through 230.905) will not cause the transaction to fail to be an offshore transaction as defined in this section.
(i)
Reporting issuer.
“Reporting issuer” means an issuer other than an investment company registered or required to register under the 1940 Act that:
(1) Has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(b) or 78
l
(g)) or is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
(d)); and
(2) Has filed all the material required to be filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78
o
(d)) for a period of at least twelve months immediately preceding the offer or sale of securities made in reliance upon this Regulation S (§ 230.901 through § 230.905, and Preliminary Notes) (or for such shorter period that the issuer was required to file such material).
(j)
Substantial U.S. market interest.
(1) “Substantial U.S. market interest” with respect to a class of an issuer's equity securities means:
(i) The securities exchanges and inter-dealer quotation systems in the United States in the aggregate constituted the single largest market for such class of securities in the shorter of the issuer's prior fiscal year or the period since the issuer's incorporation; or
(ii) 20 percent or more of all trading in such class of securities took place in, on or through the facilities of securities exchanges and inter-dealer quotation systems in the United States and less than 55 percent of such trading took place in, on or through the facilities of securities markets of a single foreign country in the shorter of the issuer's prior fiscal year or the period since the issuer's incorporation.
(2) “Substantial U.S. market interest” with respect to an issuer's debt securities means:
(i) Its debt securities, in the aggregate, are held of record (as that term is defined in § 240.12g5-1 of this chapter and used for purposes of paragraph (j)(2) of this section) by 300 or more U.S. persons;
(ii) $1 billion or more of: The principal amount outstanding of its debt securities, the greater of liquidation preference or par value of its securities described in § 230.902(a)(1), and the principal amount or principal balance of its securities described in § 230.902(a)(2), in
the aggregate, is held of record by U.S. persons; and
(iii) 20 percent or more of: The principal amount outstanding of its debt securities, the greater of liquidation preference or par value of its securities described in § 230.902(a)(1), and the principal amount or principal balance of its securities described in § 230.902(a)(2), in the aggregate, is held of record by U.S. persons.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(2) of this section, substantial U.S. market interest with respect to an issuer's debt securities is calculated without reference to securities that qualify for the exemption provided by Section 3(a)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(3)).
(k)
U.S. person.
(1) “U.S. person” means:
(i) Any natural person resident in the United States;
(ii) Any partnership or corporation organized or incorporated under the laws of the United States;
(iii) Any estate of which any executor or administrator is a U.S. person;
(iv) Any trust of which any trustee is a U.S. person;
(v) Any agency or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States;
(vi) Any non-discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary for the benefit or account of a U.S. person;
(vii) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States; and
(viii) Any partnership or corporation if:
(A) Organized or incorporated under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction; and
(B) Formed by a U.S. person principally for the purpose of investing in securities not registered under the Act, unless it is organized or incorporated, and owned, by accredited investors (as defined in § 230.501(a)) who are not natural persons, estates or trusts.
(2) The following are not “U.S. persons”:
(i) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held for the benefit or account of a non-U.S. person by a dealer or other professional fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States;
(ii) Any estate of which any professional fiduciary acting as executor or administrator is a U.S. person if:
(A) An executor or administrator of the estate who is not a U.S. person has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the assets of the estate; and
(B) The estate is governed by foreign law;
(iii) Any trust of which any professional fiduciary acting as trustee is a U.S. person, if a trustee who is not a U.S. person has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the trust assets, and no beneficiary of the trust (and no settlor if the trust is revocable) is a U.S. person;
(iv) An employee benefit plan established and administered in accordance with the law of a country other than the United States and customary practices and documentation of such country;
(v) Any agency or branch of a U.S. person located outside the United States if:
(A) The agency or branch operates for valid business reasons; and
(B) The agency or branch is engaged in the business of insurance or banking and is subject to substantive insurance or banking regulation, respectively, in the jurisdiction where located; and
(vi) The International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the United Nations, and their agencies, affiliates and pension plans, and any other similar international organizations, their agencies, affiliates and pension plans.
(l)
United States.
“United States” means the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
[63 FR 9642, Feb. 25, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 44819, Aug. 3, 2005]
§ 230.903
Offers or sales of securities by the issuer, a distributor, any of their respective affiliates, or any person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing; conditions relating to specific securities.
(a) An offer or sale of securities by the issuer, a distributor, any of their respective affiliates, or any person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing, shall be deemed to occur outside the United States within the meaning of § 230.901 if:
(1) The offer or sale is made in an offshore transaction;
(2) No directed selling efforts are made in the United States by the issuer, a distributor, any of their respective affiliates, or any person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing; and
(3) The conditions of paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable, are satisfied.
(b)
Additional conditions
—(1)
Category 1.
No conditions other than those set forth in § 230.903(a) apply to securities in this category. Securities are eligible for this category if:
(i) The securities are issued by a foreign issuer that reasonably believes at the commencement of the offering that:
(A) There is no substantial U.S. market interest in the class of securities to be offered or sold (if equity securities are offered or sold);
(B) There is no substantial U.S. market interest in its debt securities (if debt securities are offered or sold);
(C) There is no substantial U.S. market interest in the securities to be purchased upon exercise (if warrants are offered or sold); and
(D) There is no substantial U.S. market interest in either the convertible securities or the underlying securities (if convertible securities are offered or sold);
(ii) The securities are offered and sold in an overseas directed offering, which means:
(A) An offering of securities of a foreign issuer that is directed into a single country other than the United States to the residents thereof and that is made in accordance with the local laws and customary practices and documentation of such country; or
(B) An offering of non-convertible debt securities of a domestic issuer that is directed into a single country other than the United States to the residents thereof and that is made in accordance with the local laws and customary practices and documentation of such country, provided that the principal and interest of the securities (or par value, as applicable) are denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars and such securities are neither convertible into U.S. dollar-denominated securities nor linked to U.S. dollars (other than through related currency or interest rate swap transactions that are commercial in nature) in a manner that in effect converts the securities to U.S. dollar-denominated securities.
(iii) The securities are backed by the full faith and credit of a foreign government; or
(iv) The securities are offered and sold to employees of the issuer or its affiliates pursuant to an employee benefit plan established and administered in accordance with the law of a country other than the United States, and customary practices and documentation of such country, provided that:
(A) The securities are issued in compensatory circumstances for bona fide services rendered to the issuer or its affiliates in connection with their businesses and such services are not rendered in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction;
(B) Any interests in the plan are not transferable other than by will or the laws of descent or distribution;
(C) The issuer takes reasonable steps to preclude the offer and sale of interests in the plan or securities under the plan to U.S. residents other than employees on temporary assignment in the United States; and
(D) Documentation used in connection with any offer pursuant to the plan contains a statement that the securities have not been registered under the Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States unless registered or an exemption from registration is available.
(2)
Category 2.
The following conditions apply to securities that are not eligible for Category 1 (paragraph
(b)(1)) of this section and that are equity securities of a reporting foreign issuer, or debt securities of a reporting issuer or of a non-reporting foreign issuer.
(i) Offering restrictions are implemented;
(ii) The offer or sale, if made prior to the expiration of a 40-day distribution compliance period, is not made to a U.S. person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. person (other than a distributor); and
(iii) Each distributor selling securities to a distributor, a dealer, as defined in section 2(a)(12) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(12)), or a person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration in respect of the securities sold, prior to the expiration of a 40-day distribution compliance period, sends a confirmation or other notice to the purchaser stating that the purchaser is subject to the same restrictions on offers and sales that apply to a distributor.
(3)
Category 3.
The following conditions apply to securities that are not eligible for Category 1 or 2 (paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2)) of this section:
(i) Offering restrictions are implemented;
(ii) In the case of debt securities:
(A) The offer or sale, if made prior to the expiration of a 40-day distribution compliance period, is not made to a U.S. person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. person (other than a distributor); and
(B) The securities are represented upon issuance by a temporary global security which is not exchangeable for definitive securities until the expiration of the 40-day distribution compliance period and, for persons other than distributors, until certification of beneficial ownership of the securities by a non-U.S. person or a U.S. person who purchased securities in a transaction that did not require registration under the Act;
(iii) In the case of equity securities:
(A) The offer or sale, if made prior to the expiration of a one-year distribution compliance period (or six-month distribution compliance period if the issuer is a reporting issuer), is not made to a U.S. person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. person (other than a distributor); and
(B) The offer or sale, if made prior to the expiration of a one-year distribution compliance period (or six-month distribution compliance period if the issuer is a reporting issuer), is made pursuant to the following conditions:
(
1
) The purchaser of the securities (other than a distributor) certifies that it is not a U.S. person and is not acquiring the securities for the account or benefit of any U.S. person or is a U.S. person who purchased securities in a transaction that did not require registration under the Act;
(
2
) The purchaser of the securities agrees to resell such securities only in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation S (§ 230.901 through § 230.905, and Preliminary Notes), pursuant to registration under the Act, or pursuant to an available exemption from registration; and agrees not to engage in hedging transactions with regard to such securities unless in compliance with the Act;
(
3
) The securities of a domestic issuer contain a legend to the effect that transfer is prohibited except in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation S (§§ 230.901 through 230.905, and Preliminary Notes), pursuant to registration under the Act, or pursuant to an available exemption from registration; and that hedging transactions involving those securities may not be conducted unless in compliance with the Act;
(
4
) The issuer is required, either by contract or a provision in its bylaws, articles, charter or comparable document, to refuse to register any transfer of the securities not made in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation S (§§ 230.901 through 230.905, and Preliminary Notes), pursuant to registration under the Act, or pursuant to an available exemption from registration;
provided, however,
that if the securities are in bearer form or foreign law prevents the issuer of the securities from refusing to register securities transfers, other reasonable procedures (such as a legend described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B)(
3
) of this section)
are implemented to prevent any transfer of the securities not made in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation S; and
(iv) Each distributor selling securities to a distributor, a dealer (as defined in section 2(a)(12) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(12)), or a person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration, prior to the expiration of a 40-day distribution compliance period in the case of debt securities, or a one-year distribution compliance period (or six-month distribution compliance period if the issuer is a reporting issuer) in the case of equity securities, sends a confirmation or other notice to the purchaser stating that the purchaser is subject to the same restrictions on offers and sales that apply to a distributor.
(4)
Guaranteed securities.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section, in offerings of debt securities fully and unconditionally guaranteed as to principal and interest by the parent of the issuer of the debt securities, only the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section that are applicable to the offer and sale of the guarantee must be satisfied with respect to the offer and sale of the guaranteed debt securities.
(5)
Warrants.
An offer or sale of warrants under Category 2 or 3 (paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3)) of this section also must comply with the following requirements:
(i) Each warrant must bear a legend stating that the warrant and the securities to be issued upon its exercise have not been registered under the Act and that the warrant may not be exercised by or on behalf of any U.S. person unless registered under the Act or an exemption from such registration is available;
(ii) Each person exercising a warrant is required to give:
(A) Written certification that it is not a U.S. person and the warrant is not being exercised on behalf of a U.S. person; or
(B) A written opinion of counsel to the effect that the warrant and the securities delivered upon exercise thereof have been registered under the Act or are exempt from registration thereunder; and
(iii) Procedures are implemented to ensure that the warrant may not be exercised within the United States, and that the securities may not be delivered within the United States upon exercise, other than in offerings deemed to meet the definition of “offshore transaction” pursuant to § 230.902(h), unless registered under the Act or an exemption from such registration is available.
[63 FR 9645, Feb. 25, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 71571, Dec. 17, 2007]
§ 230.904
Offshore resales.
(a) An offer or sale of securities by any person other than the issuer, a distributor, any of their respective affiliates (except any officer or director who is an affiliate solely by virtue of holding such position), or any person acting on behalf of any of the foregoing, shall be deemed to occur outside the United States within the meaning of § 230.901 if:
(1) The offer or sale are made in an offshore transaction;
(2) No directed selling efforts are made in the United States by the seller, an affiliate, or any person acting on their behalf; and
(3) The conditions of paragraph (b) of this section, if applicable, are satisfied.
(b)
Additional conditions
—(1)
Resales by dealers and persons receiving selling concessions.
In the case of an offer or sale of securities prior to the expiration of the distribution compliance period specified in Category 2 or 3 (paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3)) of § 230.903, as applicable, by a dealer, as defined in Section 2(a)(12) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(12)), or a person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration in respect of the securities offered or sold:
(i) Neither the seller nor any person acting on its behalf knows that the offeree or buyer of the securities is a U.S. person; and
(ii) If the seller or any person acting on the seller's behalf knows that the purchaser is a dealer, as defined in Section 2(a)(12) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(12)), or is a person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration in respect of the securities sold, the seller or a person acting on
the seller's behalf sends to the purchaser a confirmation or other notice stating that the securities may be offered and sold during the distribution compliance period only in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation S (§ 230.901 through § 230.905, and Preliminary Notes); pursuant to registration of the securities under the Act; or pursuant to an available exemption from the registration requirements of the Act.
(2)
Resales by certain affiliates.
In the case of an offer or sale of securities by an officer or director of the issuer or a distributor, who is an affiliate of the issuer or distributor solely by virtue of holding such position, no selling concession, fee or other remuneration is paid in connection with such offer or sale other than the usual and customary broker's commission that would be received by a person executing such transaction as agent.
[63 FR 9646, Feb. 25, 1998]
§ 230.905
Resale limitations.
Equity securities of domestic issuers acquired from the issuer, a distributor, or any of their respective affiliates in a transaction subject to the conditions of § 230.901 or § 230.903 are deemed to be “restricted securities” as defined in § 230.144. Resales of any of such restricted securities by the offshore purchaser must be made in accordance with this Regulation S (§ 230.901 through § 230.905, and Preliminary Notes), the registration requirements of the Act or an exemption therefrom. Any “restricted securities,” as defined in § 230.144, that are equity securities of a domestic issuer will continue to be deemed to be restricted securities, notwithstanding that they were acquired in a resale transaction made pursuant to § 230.901 or § 230.904.
[63 FR 9647, Feb. 25, 1998]

# Regulation CE—Coordinated Exemptions for Certain Issues of Securities Exempt Under State Law
§ 230.1001
Exemption for transactions exempt from qualification under § 25102(n) of the California Corporations Code.

# Preliminary Notes:
(1) Nothing in this section is intended to be or should be construed as in any way relieving issuers or persons acting on behalf of issuers from providing disclosure to prospective investors necessary to satisfy the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. This section only provides an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (“the Act”) [15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
].
(2) Nothing in this section obviates the need to comply with any applicable state law relating to the offer and sales of securities.
(3) Attempted compliance with this section does not act as an exclusive election; the issuer also can claim the availability of any other applicable exemption.
(4) This exemption is not available to any issuer for any transaction which, while in technical compliance with the provision of this section, is part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration provisions of the Act. In such cases, registration under the Act is required.
(a)
Exemption.
Offers and sales of securities that satisfy the conditions of paragraph (n) of § 25102 of the California Corporations Code, and paragraph (b) of this section, shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 by virtue of Section 3(b) of that Act.
(b)
Limitation on and computation of offering price.
The sum of all cash and other consideration to be received for the securities shall not exceed $5,000,000, less the aggregate offering price for all other securities sold in the same offering of securities, whether pursuant to this or another exemption.
(c)
Resale limitations.
Securities issued pursuant to this § 230.1001 are deemed to be “restricted securities” as defined in Securities Act Rule 144 [§ 230.144]. Resales of such securities must be made in compliance with the registration requirements of the Act or an exemption therefrom.
[61 FR 21359, May 9, 1996]
Pt. 231

# PART 231—INTERPRETATIVE RELEASES RELATING TO THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS THEREUNDER

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
Subject
Release No.
Date
Fed. Reg. Vol. and page
Partial text of letter of Chief of Securities Division of Federal Trade Commission relating to section 11(e)(2)
45
Sept. 22, 1933
11 FR 10947.
Letter of Federal Trade Commission relating to offers of sale prior to the effective date of the registration statement
70
Nov. 6, 1933
11 FR 10948.
Opinion of Federal Trade Commission relating to registration of stock issued by certain mortgage loan companies
86
Dec. 13, 1933
Do.
Extracts from letters of Federal Trade Commission relating to applications of various sections of the Act
97
Dec. 28, 1933
11 FR 10949.
Extract from letter of Federal Trade Commission discussing availability of a “broker's exemption” to the customer of the broker
131
Mar. 13, 1934
11 FR 10951.
Statement by Federal Trade Commission discussing the amendment of the Securities Act to include fractional undivided interests in oil, gas or other mineral rights in the definition of security
185
June 20, 1934
Do.
Statement by Federal Trade Commission relating to the availability of an exemption from registration where a secondary distribution involves sales outside the State of incorporation
201
July 20, 1934
11 FR 10952.
Letter of General Counsel discussing factors to be considered in determining the availability of the exemption from registration provided by the second clause of section 4(1)
285
Jan. 24, 1935
Do.
Letter of General Counsel discussing the availability of an exemption from registration for securities issued in exchange for other securities where terms of the issuance and exchange are subject to approval by a State public utility commission
312
Mar. 15, 1935
11 FR 10953.
Letter of General Counsel discussing availability of an exemption from registration for collateral trust notes
401
June 18, 1935
Do.
Letter of General Counsel discussing distribution by statistical service of bulletins and circulars describing securities for which registration statements have been filed
464
Aug. 19, 1935
Do.
Letter of General Counsel discussing the availability of an exemption from registration for the issuance of securities under deposit agreements where solicitations under the agreements were begun prior to the effective date of the registration requirements of the Securities Act
538
Oct. 26, 1935
11 FR 10955.
Letter of General Counsel discussing the availability of exemption from registration of the second clause of section 4(1)
603
Dec. 16, 1935
Do.
Letters of General Counsel discussing application of section 3(a)(9)
646
Feb. 3, 1936
11 FR 10956.
Letter by General Counsel discussing circulation by underwriters and dealers of summaries of information contained in registration statements prior to the effective date of such statements
802
May 23, 1936
11 FR 10957.
Letter of General Counsel discussing the application of section 5(b)(2)
828
June 4, 1936
Do.
Opinion of the Director of the Division of Forms and Regulations relating to Rule 821(a) (17 CFR 230.821(a))
874
July 2, 1936
Do.
Letter of General Counsel discussing whether a sale of a security is involved in the payment of a dividend
929
July 29, 1936
Do.
Letter of General Counsel discussing solicitation by financial and security houses of brokerage orders for the purchase of securities prior to the effective date of a registration statement for such securities
1256
Feb. 9, 1937
11 FR 10958.
Opinion of the Director of the Division of Forms and Regulations discussing the definition of “parent” as used in various forms under Securities Act of 1933 and Securities Exchange Act of 1934
1376
Apr. 7, 1937
Do.
Letter of General Counsel discussing nature of exemption from registration provided by section 3(a)(11)
1459
May 29, 1937
Do.
Opinion of the Director of the Division of Forms and Regulations relating to Rule 821(a) (17 CFR 230.821(a))
1503
July 12, 1937
11 FR 10959.
Letter of the Director of the Division of Forms and Regulations relating to Rule 821(a) (17 CFR 230.821(a))
1580
Oct. 19, 1937
11 FR 10961.
Opinion of General Counsel relating to Rule 142 (17 CFR 230.142)
1862
Dec. 14, 1938
11 FR 10962.
Letter of General Counsel concerning the services of former employees of the Commission in connection with matters with which such employees became familiar during their course of employment with the Commission
1934
Apr. 5, 1939
11 FR 10963.
Letter of General Counsel relating to sections 3(a)(9) and 4(1)
2029
Aug. 8, 1939
11 FR 10953.
Statement of Commission policy with respect to the acceleration of the effective date of registration statements
2340
Aug. 23, 1940
11 FR 10964.
Opinion of General Counsel concerning the application of the third clause of section 4(1) in various situations
2623
July 25, 1941
Do.
Extract from letter of Director of the Corporation Finance Division
2899
Feb. 5, 1943
11 FR 10965.
Opinion of Director of the Trading and Exchange Division relating to the violation of the anti-fraud provisions of the Securities Act by manipulation of prices of securities not registered on a national securities exchange
2955
Nov. 16, 1943
Do.
Opinion of Director of the Trading and Exchange Division relating to the violation of the anti-fraud provisions of the Securities Act in cases of a “syndicate account” while members of the syndicate or selling group are engaged in the retail distribution of such security
2956
Nov. 11, 1943
Do.
Statement of the Commission relating to the anti-fraud provisions of section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and sections 10(b) and 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
2997
June 1, 1944
Do.
Opinion of Chief Counsel to the Corporation Finance Division relating to section 3(a)(10)
3000
June 7, 1944
11 FR 10965.
Opinion of Chief Counsel to the Corporation Finance Division relating to section 3(a)(10)
3011
Aug. 28, 1944
11 FR 10966.
Statement by Commission relating to section 3(a)(10)
3038
Jan. 4, 1945
Do.
Opinion of Director of the Trading and Exchange Division relating to section 206 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and sections 10(b) and 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
3043
Feb. 5, 1945
Do.
Statement of Commission policy as to acceleration of the effective date of a registration statement where a selling stockholder does not bear his equitable proportion of the expense of registration
3055
Apr. 7, 1945
Do.
Statement of Commission policy as to the acceleration of the effective date of a registration statement in cases where an inadequate “red herring” prospectus has been issued
3061
Apr. 30, 1945
Do.
Statement by Commission with respect to representations that the Commission has approved the price of a security offered to the public under a registration statement
3115
Jan. 24, 1946
11 FR 10967.
Statements of the Commission accompanying adoption of § 230.131 (Rule 131)
3177
Dec. 30, 1946
11 FR 14726.
Letter of the Director of the Corporation Finance Division regarding registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of certain warrants
3210
Apr. 9, 1947
12 FR 2513.
Opinion of General Counsel relating to “when-issued” trading
3343
May 24, 1949
14 FR 2831.
Statement of the Commission relating to § 230.220(i) of this chapter
3399
Dec. 6, 1950
15 FR 8965.
Opinion of the General Counsel relating to the use of “hedge clauses” by brokers, dealers, investment advisers, and others
3411
Apr. 18, 1951
16 FR 3387.
Statements of the Commission respecting purpose of § 230.132 (Rule 132); respecting acceleration of identifying statements and proposed prospectuses pursuant to § 230.131 and § 230.132 (Rules 131 and 132); and respecting acceleration policy where there has been no bona fide effort to prepare a reasonably concise and readable prospectus
3453
Oct. 1, 1952
17 FR 8900.
Statement of the Commission relating to publication of information prior to or after the effective date of a registration statement
3844
Oct. 4, 1957
22 FR 8359.
Statement of the Commission concerning the interpretation and application of § 230.133 (Rule 133)
3846
Oct. 8, 1957
22 FR 8361.
Statement of the Commission regarding trading stamps
3890
Jan. 21, 1958
23 FR 498.
Statement of the Commission regarding public offerings of investment contracts providing for the acquisition, sale or servicing of mortgages or deeds of trust
3892
Jan. 31, 1958
23 FR 840.
Statement of the Commission as to the applicability of the Federal securities laws to real estate investment trusts
4298
Nov. 18, 1960
25 FR 12177.
Statement of the Commission concerning interpretation of section 39(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933
4412
Sept. 20, 1961
26 FR 9158.
Statement of the Commission concerning exemption for local offerings from registration
4434
Dec. 6, 1961
26 FR 11896.
Statement of the Commission concerning standards of conduct for registered broker-dealers in the distribution of unregistered securities
4445
Feb. 2, 1962
27 FR 1251.
Statement of the Commission in regard to the wide variation of certificates used by independent accountants in their registration statements concerning verification of inventories (income statements) of prior years in first audits
4458
Mar. 1, 1962
27 FR 2312.
Statement of the Commission in regard to the increase of time between the filing and the effective dates of a substantial volume of registration statements and suggested assistance to issuers, counsels, and others preparing registration statements to remedy this delay
4475
Apr. 13, 1962
27 FR 3990.
Statement of the Commission cautioning broker-dealers about violating the anti-fraud provisions of the Federal securities laws when making short sales in which they delay effecting the covering transaction to acquire the security
4476
Apr. 16, 1962
27 FR 3991.
Opinion of the Commission that “Equity Funding”, “Secured Funding”, or “Life Funding” constitutes an investment contract and when publicly offered is required to be registered under the Securities Act of 1933
4491
May 22, 1962
27 FR 5190.
Statement of the Commission regarding limitations of the availability of so-called “private offering exemption.”
4552
Nov. 6, 1962
27 FR 11316.
Statement of the Commission showing circumstances in 7 cases where profits in real estate transactions were not earned at time transactions were recorded but that the sales were designed to create the illusion of profits or value as a basis for the sales of securities
4566
Dec. 28, 1962
28 FR 276.
Commission's publication of policies and practices of its Division of Corporation Finance to be used as guide for preparation and filing of registration statements
4666
Feb. 7, 1964
29 FR 2490.
Statement of the Commission explaining the operation of section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 in the offer and sale of securities by underwriters and dealers prior to and after the filing of a registration statement
4697
May 28, 1964
29 FR 7317.
Statement of the Commission re applicability of Securities Act of 1933 to offerings of securities outside the U.S. and re applicability of section 15(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to foreign underwriters as part of program of Presidential Task Force to reduce U.S. balance of payments deficit and protect U.S. gold reserves
4708
July 9, 1964
29 FR 9828.
Letter of Chief Counsel of Division of Corporation Finance recommending against proposed amendment to Rule 134 under the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230.134) with specific interpretations valuable to would be users of “tombstone” advertisements
4709
July 14, 1964
29 FR 9827.
Summary and interpretation by the Commission of amendments to the Securities Act of 1933 and Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as contained in the Securities Acts Amendments of 1964
4725
Sept. 14, 1964
29 FR 13455.
Statement of the Commission re the registration of securities purchased through employee stock purchase plans and warning that plans not subject to registration should be limited to securities of reliable companies
4790
July 13, 1965
30 FR 9059.
Opinion and statement of the Commission in regard to proper reporting of deferred income taxes arising from installment sales
4811
Dec. 7, 1965
30 FR 15420.
Statement of the Commission to clarify the meaning of “beneficial ownership of securities” as relates to beneficial ownership of securities held by family members
4817
Jan. 19, 1966
31 FR 1005.
Restatement (superseding Release No. 4669) of the Commission alerting the financial community to the limitations of Rule 154 (17 CFR 230.154) under the Securities Act of 1933
4818
Jan. 21, 1966
31 FR 2544.
Statement of the Commission setting the date of May 1, 1966 after which filings must reflect beneficial ownership of securities held by family members
4819
Feb. 14, 1966
31 FR 3175.
Request by the Commission to issuers to use language that can be understood readily by employees in prospectuses for securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933 on Form S-8 (17 CFR 239.16b)
4844
Aug. 5, 1966
31 FR 10667.
Statement of the Commission prepared in conjunction with Maryland, Virginia, and District of Columbia authorities re applicability of Federal Securities Laws as to registration requirements and antifraud provisions in real estate syndications
4877
Aug. 8, 1967
32 FR 11705.
Opinions of the Commission on the acceleration of the effective date of a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 and on the clearance of proxy material such as convertible preferred shares considered residual securities in determining earnings per share applicable to common stock
4910
June 18, 1968
33 FR 10086.
Statement of the Commission to alert prospective borrowers obtaining loans for real estate development about recent fraudulent schemes
4913
July 5, 1968
33 FR 10134.
Statement of the Commission clarifying that industrial revenue bonds sold under Rule 131 (17 CFR 230.131) and Rule 3b-5 (17 CFR 240.3b-5) are not effected if acquired and paid for by the underwriters on or before December 31, 1968
4923
Sept. 16, 1968
33 FR 14545.
Statement of the Commission setting forth certain procedures for the staff of its Division of Corporation Finance to adopt in order to expedite the filing of registration statements
4934
Nov. 21, 1968
33 FR 17900.
Statement of the Director of the Commission's Division of Corporate Regulation re the filing of supplements to investment company prospectuses under the Securities Act of 1933 as a result of changes in stock exchange rules effective December 5, 1968 relating to “customer-directed give ups”
IC-5554
Dec. 3, 1968
33 FR 18576.
Guides for preparation and filing of registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933
4936
Dec. 9, 1968
33 FR 18617.
Letter of Chief Counsel of Division of Corporate Regulation setting forth the Commission's interpretation as to references to certain financial services in “Tombstone” advertisements
4940
Dec. 23, 1968
34 FR 382.
Statement of the Commission setting forth emergency procedures adopted by the Division of Corporate Regulation to expedite processing of registration statements, amendments, and proxy statements
4955
Mar. 12, 1969
34 FR 5547.
Proposed guide for prospective registrants re the use of misleading names
4959
Apr. 7, 1969
34 FR 6575.
Declaration of the Commission that prior delivery of preliminary prospectus to underwriters and dealers will accelerate the effective date of a registration statement
4968
Apr. 24, 1969
34 FR 7235.
Policy of Commission's Division of Corporation Finance to send only one letter of comments re registration statement to the issuer or its counsel and one to the principal underwriter or its counsel if there are underwriters
4970
May 1, 1969
34 FR 7613.
Statement of the Commission cautioning brokers and dealers with respect to effecting transactions of “spin offs” and “shell corporations”
4982
July 2, 1969
34 FR 11581.
Commission's proposed guide for prospectuses relating to public offering of interests in oil and gas drilling programs to assist issuers in preparing registration statements and to help investors in understanding and analysis
5001
Aug. 27, 1969
34 FR 14125.
Proposed guide for prospective registrants re the use of misleading names adopted unchanged
5005
Sept. 17, 1969
34 FR 15245.
Interpretations by the Commission re the publication of information prior to or after filing of a registration statement, and also re its proposal to amend Rule 174 to change effective date restrictions of the existing prospectus delivery requirements
5009
Oct. 7, 1969
34 FR 16870.
Commission's statement about publicity concerning the petroleum discoveries on the North Slope of Alaska
5016
Oct. 20, 1969
34 FR 17433.
Commission's warning statement re sale and distribution of whisky warehouse receipts
5018
Nov. 4, 1969
34 FR 18160.
The Commission's views re preparation of prospectuses relating to public offerings of interests in oil and gas programs are represented by Guide No. 55 set forth here and in Securities Act Release No. 4936 rather than the proposed guide in Securities Act Release No. 5001
5036
Jan. 19, 1970
35 FR 1233.
Conclusion by the Commission that a registration statement will be considered defective under the 1933 Act when the certificate does not meet the requirements of 17 CFR 210.2-02 because the accountant qualifies his opinion due to doubt as to whether the company will continue as a going concern
5049
Feb. 17, 1970
35 FR 4121.
Publication of the Commission's guidelines re applicability of Federal securities laws to offer and sale outside the U.S. of shares of registered open-end investment companies
5068
June 23, 1970
35 FR 12103.
Statement of the Commission reminding reporting companies of obligation re Commission's rules to file reports on a timely basis
5092
Oct. 15, 1970
35 FR 16733.
Publication by the Commission of a registration guide relating to the interest of legal counsel and experts in the registrant
5094
Oct. 21, 1970
35 FR 16919.
Commission's Guide No. 58 requiring disclosure in prospectus of address and telephone number of the registrant's principal executive offices
5102
Nov. 12, 1970
35 FR 17990.
Commission's statement re exemption of certain industrial revenue bonds from registration, etc. requirements in view of amendment of Securities Act of 1933 and of Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by “section 401” (PL 91-373)
5103
Nov. 6, 1970
35 FR 17990.
Commission's views relating to important questions re the accounting by registered investment companies for investment securities in their financial statements and in the periodic computations of net asset value for the purpose of pricing their shares
5120
Dec. 23, 1970
35 FR 19986.
Commission's statement setting forth its policy on use of legends and stop-transfer instructions as evidence of nonpublic offering
5121
Dec. 30, 1970
36 FR 1525.
Publication of the Commission's procedure to be followed if requests are to be met for no action or interpretative letters and responses thereto to be made available for public use
5127
Jan. 25, 1971
36 FR 2600.
Interpretations of the Commission in regard to requirements for registration statements and reports concerning information requested re description of business, summary of operations, and financial statements
5133
Feb. 18, 1971
36 FR 4483.
Third in a series of statements by the Commission on problems arising under PL 91-547 re registration and regulation of insurance company separate accounts used as funding vehicles for certain employee stock bonus, pension and profit sharing plans
5137
Apr. 2, 1971
36 FR 7897.
Statement of the Commission warning the public about novel unsecured debt securities which appear to invite unwarranted comparisons with bank savings accounts, savings and loan association accounts, and bank time deposit certificates
34-9143
Apr. 12, 1971
36 FR 8238.
Statement of the Commission prohibiting the reduction of fixed charges by amounts representing interest or investment income or gains on retirement of debt in registration statements or reports filed with the Commission
5158
June 16, 1971
36 FR 11918.
Statement of the Commission calling attention to requirements in its forms and rules under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 for disclosure of legal proceedings and descriptions of registrant's business as these requirements relate to material matters involving the environment and civil rights
5170
July 19, 1971
36 FR 13989.
Commission's authorization of publication of amended Registration Guide No. 8 which sets forth the policy of the Commission's Division of Corporation Finance with respect to pictorial or graphic representations in prospectives
5171
July 20, 1971
36 FR 13915.
Commission's policy requiring the inclusion in financial statements of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the total enterprise in equivalent prominence with the ratio for the registrant or registrant and consolidated subsidiaries
5176
Aug. 10, 1971
36 FR 15527.
Commission's guidelines for release of information by issuers whose securities are “in registration”
5180
Aug. 16, 1971
36 FR 16506.
Policy of Commission's Division of Corporation Finance to defer processing registration statements and amendments filed under the Securities Act of 1933 by issuers whose reports are delinquent until such reports are brought up to date
5196
Sept. 27, 1971
36 FR 19362.
Publication by the Commission of a registration guide relating to “insurance premium funding” programs
5209
Nov. 8, 1971
36 FR 22013.
Commission's statement concerning applicability of securities laws to multilevel distributorships and other business opportunities offered through pyramid sales plans
5211
Nov. 30, 1971
36 FR 23289.
Commission's statement concerning offering and sale of securities in nonpublic offerings and applicability of antifraud provisions of securities acts
5226
Jan. 14, 1972
37 FR 600.
Commission's statement of procedures followed by the staff of its Division of Corporation Finance in examining registration statements; request to issuers to follow certain procedures to expedite registration
5231
Mar. 2, 1972
37 FR 4327.
Commission endorses the establishment by all publicly held companies of audit committees composed of outside directors
5237
Apr. 5, 1972
37 FR 6850.
Applicability of Commission's policy statement on the future structure of securities markets to selection of brokers and payment of commissions by institutional managers
5250
May 18, 1972
37 FR 9988.
Commission's statement and policy on misleading pro rata stock distributions to shareholders
5255
June 9, 1972
37 FR 11559.
Commission's guidelines prepared by the Division of Corporate Regulation for use in preparing and filing registration statements for open-end and closed-end management investment companies on Forms S-4 and S-5
5259
June 29, 1972
37 FR 12790.
Commission's guidelines on independence of certifying accountants; example cases and Commission's conclusions
5270
June 19, 1972
37 FR 14294.
Commission's guides for preparation and filing of registration statements
5278
Aug. 9, 1972
37 FR 15986.
Commission's procedures for processing post effective amendments filed by all registered investment companies
5305
Sept. 29, 1972
37 FR 20317.
Interpretations of rules concerning underwriters by the Commission's Corporate Finance Division
5306
Oct. 31, 1972
37 FR 23180.
Commission's decisions on recommendations of advisory committee regarding commencement of enforcement proceedings and termination of staff investigations
5310
Mar. 1, 1973
38 FR 5457.
Commission's interpretation of risk-sharing test in pooling of interest accounting
5312
Oct. 5, 1972
37 FR 20937.
Commission's statement that short-selling securities prior to offering date is a possible violation of antifraud and antimanipulative laws
5323
Oct. 25, 1972
37 FR 22796.
Commission reaffirms proper accounting treatment to be followed by a lessee when the lessor is created as a conduit for debt financing
5333
Dec. 13, 1972
37 FR 26516.
Commission's statement to builders and sellers of condominiums of their obligations under the Securities Act
5347
Jan. 18, 1973
38 FR 1735.
Amendment of previous interpretation (AS-130) of risk-sharing test in pooling-of-interest accounting
5348
Jan. 18, 1973
38 FR 1734.
Commission's policy on the use of “sales literature” in Investment Company prospectuses
5359
Mar. 19, 1973
38 FR 7220.
Commission's findings on disclosure of projections of future economic performance by issuers of publicly traded securities
5362
Mar. 19, 1973
38 FR 7220.
Commission's views on reporting cash flow and other related data
5377
Apr. 11, 1973
38 FR 9158.
Commission's guidelines on advertising and sales practices in connection with offers and sales of securities involving Condominium Units and other Units in real estate development
5382
Apr. 18, 1973
38 FR 9587.
Commission's guidelines on preparation and filing of registration statements
5396
June 29, 1973
38 FR 17200.
Commission's statement on obligations of underwriters with respect to discretionary accounts
5398
June 29, 1973
38 FR 17201.
Commission's statement calling attention to requirements for completing and filing of Form 144
5403
July 3, 1973
38 FR 17715.
Commission expresses concern with failure of issuers to timely and properly file periodic and current reports
5492
July 10, 1973
38 FR 18366.
Commission's statement on exceptions for filing registration statements for variable life insurance contracts
5413
Aug. 16, 1973
38 FR 22121.
Commission's conclusions as to certain problems relating to the effect of treasury stock transactions on accounting for business combinations
5416
Sept. 10, 1973
38 FR 24635.
Commission requests comments on Accounting Series Release No. 146
5429
Oct. 17, 1973
38 FR 28819.
Statement by the Commission on disclosure of the impact of possible fuel shortages on the operations of issuers
5447
Jan. 10, 1974
39 FR 1511.
Commission's statement on disclosure of inventory profits reflected in income in periods of rising prices
5449
Jan. 17, 1974
39 FR 2085.
Commission views on disclosure of illegal campaign contributions
5466
Mar. 19, 1974
39 FR 10237.
Commission views and positions with respect to Rule 145 and related matters
5463
Mar. 22, 1974
39 FR 10891.
Commission's statement of policy and interpretations
5416A
Apr. 25, 1974
39 FR 14588.
Commission's views on business combinations involving open-end investment companies
5510
July 23, 1974
39 FR 26719.
Commission's guidelines for filings related to extractive reserves and natural gas supplies
5511
July 23, 1974
39 FR 26720.
Commission's practices on reporting of natural gas reserve estimates
5504
July 30, 1974
39 FR 27556.
Commission's revised position concerning dividend reinvestment plans
5515
Aug. 8, 1974
39 FR 28520.
Commission's guidelines for registration and reporting
5520
Sept. 3, 1974
39 FR 31894.
Commission's requirements for financial statements
5528
Oct. 11, 1974
39 FR 36578.
Letters of the Division of Corporation Finance with respect to certain proposed arrangements for the sale of gold bullion
5552
Jan. 9, 1975
40 FR 1695.
Commission's examples of unusual risks and uncertainties
5551
Jan. 15, 1975
40 FR 2678.
Commission's statement on disclosure problems relating to LIFO accounting
5558
Feb. 12, 1975
40 FR 6483.
Commission's guidelines on Accounting Series Release No. 148
5590
June 30, 1975
40 FR 27441.
Statements of Investment Policies of Money Market Funds Relating to Industry Concentration
5639
Nov. 21, 1975
40 FR 54241.
Publication of guide for preparation of registration statements relating to interests in real estate limited partnerships
5692
Apr. 26, 1976
41 FR 17374.
Standards for disclosure; oil and gas reserve
5706
May 28, 1976
41 FR 21764.
Guides for statistical disclosure by bank holding companies
5735
Sept. 14, 1976
41 FR 39010.
Registration statements (not including post-effective amendments)
5738
Sept. 14, 1976
Oct. 26, 1976
41 FR 39013.
41 FR 46851.
Guide for preparation of registration statements relating to interests in real estate limited partnerships
5745
Oct. 1, 1976
41 FR 43398.
Guides for preparation and filing of registration statements
5791
6049
Dec. 28, 1976
Apr. 3, 1979
41 FR 56306.
44 FR 21567.
Commission amends the general instructions to a short form registration statement
5821
Apr. 15, 1977
42 FR 22139.
Recission of certain accounting
5835
June 15, 1977
42 FR 33282.
Withdrawal of undertaking required of investment companies
5854
Aug. 12, 1977
42 FR 42196.
Industry segment determination
5910
Mar. 3, 1978
43 FR 9599.
Application of registration requirements to certain tender offers and the application of tender offer provisions to certain cash-option mergers
5927
Apr. 24, 1978
43 FR 18163.
Guide for reports or memoranda concerning registrants
5929
May 12, 1978
43 FR 20484.
Prospectus delivery requirements in special offerings to mutual fund shareholders
5985
Oct. 4, 1978
43 FR 47492;
43 FR 52022.
Guides for disclosure of projections of future economic performance
5992
Nov. 7, 1978
43 FR 53246.
Commission's statement regarding disclosure of impact of Wage and Price Standards for 1979 on the operations of issuers
6001
Nov. 29, 1978
43 FR 57596.
Withdrawal of statement of policy on investment company sales literature
6047
Mar. 28, 1979
44 FR 21007.
General statement of policy regarding exemptive provisions relating to annuity and insurance contracts
6051
Apr. 5, 1979
44 FR 21626.
Commission recommends certain techniques in drafting trust indentures to the attention of persons registering offerings of debt securities under the Securities Act of 1933
6090
July 11, 1979
44 FR 43466.
Resales of restricted and other securities
6099
Aug. 2, 1979
44 FR 46752.
Environmental disclosure requirements
6130
Sept. 27, 1979
44 FR 56924.
No action position respecting public offerings of debt securities registered on Form S-18 without qualification of an indenture under the Trust Indenture Act
6136
Oct. 16, 1979
44 FR 61941.
Disclosure of management remuneration by certain foreign private issuers
6157
Nov. 29, 1979
44 FR 70130.
Pooled income funds
6175
Jan. 10, 1980
45 FR 3258.
Employee benefit plans; interpretation of statute
6188
Feb. 1, 1980
45 FR 8962.
Effect of credit controls on the operations of certain registered investment companies including money market funds
6200
Mar. 14, 1980
45 FR 17954.
Amendments to guides for statistical disclosure by bank holding companies
6221
July 8, 1980
45 FR 47140.
Amendments to annual report form, related forms, rules, regulations and guides; integration of Securities' Acts Disclosure System
6231
Sept. 2, 1980
45 FR 63644.
Uniform instructions as to financial statements—regulation S-X
6234
Sept. 2, 1980
45 FR 63692.
Delayed offerings by foreign governments or political subdivisions thereof
6240
Sept. 10, 1980
45 FR 72644.
Procedures utilized by the division of corporation finance for rendering informal advice
6253
Oct. 28, 1980
45 FR 72644.
Simplified form of trust indenture
6279
Jan. 8, 1981
46 FR 3500.
Employee benefit plans
6281
Jan. 15, 1981
46 FR 8446.
Option and option-related transactions during underwritten offerings
6297
Mar. 6, 1981
46 FR 16670.
Issuance of “Retail Repurchase Agreements” by Banks and Savings and Loan Associations
6351
Sept. 25, 1981
46 FR 48637.
Effect of Revenue Ruling 81-225 on Issuers and Holders of Certain Variable Annuity Contracts
6352
Sept. 28, 1981
46 FR 48640.
Recission of Guides and Redesignation of Industry Guides
6384
Mar. 3, 1982
47 FR 11480.
Revisions to the Division of Corporation Finance's Guide 5 and Amendment of Related Disclosure Provisions
6405
June 3, 1982
47 FR 25122.
Continuous and Delayed Offerings by Foreign Governments or Political Subdivisions thereof
6424
Sept. 2, 1982
47 FR 39809.
Supplemental disclosures of oil and gas producing activities
6444
Dec. 15, 1982
47 FR 57914.
Regulation D
6455
Mar. 3, 1983
48 FR 10045.
Revision of Financial Statement Requirements and Industry Guide Disclosure for Bank Holding Companies
6458
Mar. 7, 1983
48 FR 11113.
Revision of Industry Guide Disclosures for Bank Holding Companies
6478
Aug. 11, 1983
48 FR 37613.
Public Statements by Corporate Representatives
6504
Jan. 13, 1984
49 FR 2469.
Rules and Guide for Disclosures Concerning Reserves for Unpaid Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses of Property-Casualty Underwriters
6559
Nov. 27, 1984
49 FR 47594.
Securities Issued or Guaranteed by United States Branches or Agencies of Foreign Banks
6661
Sept. 29, 1986
51 FR 34462.
Amendments to Industry Guide Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies
6677
Dec. 3, 1986
51 FR 43594.
Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure Obligations of Companies Affected by the Government's Defense Contract Procurement Inquiry and Related Issues
6791
Aug. 1, 1988
53 FR 29226.
Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure by Issuers of Interests in Publicly Offered Commodity Pools
6815
Feb. 1, 1989
54 FR 5600.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Certain Investment Company Disclosures
6835
May 18, 1989
54 FR 22427.
Limited Partnership Reorganizations and Public Offerings of Limited Partnership Interests
6900
June 17, 1991
56 FR 28986.
Acceptability in Financial Statements of an Accounting Standard Permitting the Return of a Nonaccrual Loan to Accrual Status After a Partial Charge-off
6906
July 29, 1991
56 FR 37000.
Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure Obligations of Municipal Securities Issuers and Others
7049
Mar. 9, 1994
59 FR 12758.
Amendment of Interpretation Regarding Substantive Repossession of Collateral
7060
May 12, 1994
59 FR 26109.
Problematic Practices Under Regulation S
7190
July 27, 1995
60 FR 35666.
Use of Electronic Media for Delivery Purposes
7233
Oct. 6, 1995
60 FR 53467.
Use of Electronic Media by Broker-Dealers
7288
May 15, 1996
61 FR 24651.
Use of Internet Web Sites to Offer Securities, Solicit Securities Transactions, or Advertise Investment Services Offshore
7516
Mar. 27, 1998
63 FR 14813.
Disclosure of Year 2000 Issues and Consequences by Public Companies, Investment Advisers, Investment Companies, and Municipal Securities Issuers
7558
Aug. 4, 1998
63 FR 41404.
Use of Electronic Media
7856
Apr. 28, 2000
65 FR 25843.
Exemption From Section 101(c)(1) of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act for Registered Investment Companies
7877
July 27, 2000
65 FR 47284.
Application of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act to Record Retention Requirements Pertaining to Issuers
7985
June 14, 2001
66 FR 33176.
Calculation of Average Weekly Trading Volume
8005A
Sept. 27, 2001
66 FR 49274.
Commission Guidance and Rules to Trading in Security Future Products
8107
June 21, 2002
67 FR 43246.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
8350
Dec. 19, 2003
68 FR 75065.
Commission Guidance Regarding the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing and Related Professional Practice Standard No. 1
8422
May 14, 2004
69 FR 29066.
Commission Guidance Regarding Prohibited Conduct in Connection with IPO Allocations
8565
Apr. 7, 2005
70 FR 19677.
Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines and Bioterror Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic National Stockpile
8642
Dec. 5, 2005
70 FR 73345.
Commission Guidance and Revisions to the Cross-Border Tender Offer, Exchange Offer, Rights Offerings, and Business Combination Rules and Beneficial Ownership Reporting Rules for Certain Foreign Institutions
8957
Sept. 19, 2008
73 FR 60088.
Commission Guidance Regarding the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Codification
9062A
Aug. 18, 2009
74 FR 42773.
Commission Guidance Regarding Disclosure Related to Climate Change
9106
Feb. 2, 2010
75 FR 6297.
Commission Guidance on Presentation of Liquidity and Capital Resources Disclosures in Management's Discussion and Analysis
9144
Sept. 17, 2010
75 FR 59897.
Commission Guidance Regarding the Definition of the Terms “Spouse” and “Marriage” Following the Supreme Court's Decision in
United States
v.
Windsor
33-9850
June 19, 2015
80 FR 37536.
Commission Guidance Regarding Revenue Recognition for Bill-and-Hold Arrangements
33-10402
Aug. 18, 2017
82 FR 41148.
Updates to Commission Guidance Regarding Accounting for Sales of Vaccines and Bioterror Countermeasures to the Federal Government for Placement into the Pediatric Vaccine Stockpile or the Strategic National Stockpile
33-10403
Aug. 18, 2017
82 FR 41150.
Commission Guidance on Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
33-10751
January 30, 2020
85 FR 10571.
Pt. 232

# PART 232—REGULATION S-T—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ELECTRONIC FILINGS

# General
Sec.
232.10
Application of part 232.
232.11
Definition of terms used in this part.
232.12
Business hours of the Commission.
232.13
Date of filing; adjustment of filing date.
232.14
Paper filings not accepted without exemption.
232.15
Administration of EDGAR.

# Electronic Filing Requirements
232.100
Persons and entities subject to mandated electronic filing.
232.101
Mandated electronic submissions and exceptions.
232.102
Exhibits.
232.103
Liability for transmission errors or omissions in documents filed via EDGAR.
232.104
Unofficial PDF copies included in an electronic submission.
232.105
Use of HTML and hyperlinks.
232.106
Prohibition against electronic submissions containing executable code.

# Hardship Exemptions
232.201
Temporary hardship exemption.
232.202
Continuing hardship exemption.

# Preparation of Electronic Submissions
232.301
EDGAR Filer Manual.
232.302
Signatures.
232.303
Incorporation by reference.
232.304
Graphic, image, audio and video material.
232.305
Number of characters per line; tabular and columnar information.
232.306
Foreign language documents and symbols.
232.307
Bold face type.
232.308
Type size and font; legibility.
232.309
Paper size; binding; sequential numbering; number of copies.
232.310
Marking changed material.
232.311
Documents submitted in paper under cover of Form SE.
232.312
[Reserved]
232.313
Identification of investment company type and series and/or class (or contract).
232.314
Accommodation for certain securitizers of asset-backed securities.

# Interactive Data
232.401-232.404
[Reserved]
232.405
Interactive Data File submissions.
232.406
Cover Page XBRL Data Tagging.
232.407
Interactive data financial report filings.
232.408
Filing fee exhibit interactive data.

# EDGAR Functions
232.501
Modular submissions and segmented filings.

# Foreign Private Issuers and Foreign Governments
232.600-232.903
[Reserved]

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77c, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 77z-3, 77sss(a), 78c(b), 78
l,
78m, 78n, 78n-1, 78o(d), 78w(a), 78
ll,
80a-6(c), 80a-8, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37, 7201
et seq.;
and 18 U.S.C. 1350, unless otherwise noted.
Section 232.302 is also issued under secs. 3(a) and 302, Pub.L. No. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745.

# Source:
58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 232.10
Application of part 232.
(a) This part, in conjunction with the EDGAR Filer Manual and the electronic filing provisions of applicable rules, regulations and forms, shall govern the electronic submission of documents filed or otherwise submitted to the Commission and shall be controlling for an electronic format document in the manner and respects provided in this part.
(b) Each electronic filer must, before filing on EDGAR:
(1) File electronically the information required by Form ID (§§ 239.63, 249.446, 269.7, and 274.402 of this chapter), the application for EDGAR access and
(2) File, by uploading as a Portable Document Format (PDF) attachment to the Form ID filing, a notarized document, signed by the electronic filer or its authorized individual, that includes the information required to be included in the Form ID filing and confirms the authenticity of the Form ID filing.
(c) The requirements of § 232.302 (Rule 302) do not apply to the notarized document required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(d) To file on EDGAR, each electronic filer must comply with the EDGAR account access and account management requirements set forth in this section and in the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(1) The electronic filer may only authorize individuals to act on its behalf on the dashboard if those individuals have obtained individual account credentials for EDGAR in the manner specified in the EDGAR Filer Manual;
(2) Each electronic filer must authorize and maintain at least two individuals as account administrators to act on the electronic filer's behalf to manage its EDGAR account, except each individual or single-member company electronic filer must authorize and maintain at least one individual as an account administrator to manage its EDGAR account;
(3) If the electronic filer chooses to connect to an EDGAR Application Programming Interface, the electronic filer, through its authorized account administrator(s), must authorize at least two technical administrators to
manage technical matters related to the electronic filer's connection to any EDGAR Application Programming Interface, unless the electronic filer delegates to a delegated entity that is in compliance with the technical administrator requirements of this paragraph and connects to the EDGAR Application Programming Interface using its delegated entity's filer API tokens and API connections;
(4) The electronic filer, through its authorized account administrator(s), must confirm annually on EDGAR that all account administrators, users, technical administrators, and/or delegated entities reflected on the dashboard for its EDGAR account are authorized by the electronic filer to act on its behalf, and that all information about the filer on the dashboard is accurate;
(5) The electronic filer, through its authorized account administrator(s), must maintain accurate and current information on EDGAR concerning the electronic filer's account, including but not limited to accurate corporate information and contact information; and
(6) The electronic filer, through its authorized account administrator(s), must securely maintain information relevant to the ability to access the electronic filer's EDGAR account, including but not limited to access through any EDGAR Application Programming Interfaces.

# Note 1 to § 232.10:
The Commission staff carefully review each Form ID, and electronic filers should expect that the Commission staff will require sufficient time to review the Form ID upon its submission. Therefore, any applicant seeking EDGAR access is encouraged to submit the Form ID for review well in advance of the first required filing to allow sufficient time for staff to review the application.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 36456, July 8, 1997; 64 FR 27894, May 21, 1999; 69 FR 22709, Apr. 26, 2004; 74 FR 10838, Mar. 13, 2009; 77 FR 54807, Sept. 6, 2012; 85 FR 17751, Mar. 31, 2020; 86 FR 7972, Feb. 3, 2021; 86 FR 25805, May 11, 2021; 89 Fr 106222, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 232.11
Definition of terms used in this part.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, the terms used in Regulation S-T (part 232 of this chapter) have the same meanings as in the federal securities laws and the rules, regulations and forms promulgated thereunder. In addition, the following definitions of terms apply specifically to electronic format documents and shall apply wherever they appear in laws, rules, regulations and forms governing such documents, unless the context otherwise specifies:
Account administrator.
The term
account administrator
means an individual that the electronic filer authorizes to manage its EDGAR account and to make filings on EDGAR on the electronic filer's behalf.
Animated graphics.
The term
animated graphics
means text or images that do not remain static but that may move when viewed in a browser.
Application Programming Interface.
The term
Application Programming Interface,
or
API,
means a software interface that allows computers or applications to communicate with each other.
ASCII document.
The term
ASCII document
means an electronic text document with contents limited to American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) characters and that is tagged with Standard Generalized Mark Up Language (SGML) tags in the format required for ASCII/SGML documents by the EDGAR Filer Manual.
Asset Data File.
The term Asset Data File means the machine-readable computer code that presents information in eXtensible Markup Language (XML) electronic format pursuant to § 229.1111(h) of this chapter.
Authorized individual.
The term
authorized individual
means an individual with the authority to legally bind an entity or individual for purposes of Form ID, or an individual with a power of attorney from an individual with the authority to legally bind an entity or individual for purposes of Form ID. The power of attorney document must clearly state that the individual receiving the power of attorney has either general legal authority to bind the entity or individual or specific legal authority to bind the entity or individual for purposes of Form ID.
Business development company.
The term
business development company
has the meaning set forth in section
2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act.
Cover Page Interactive Data File.
The term
Cover Page Interactive Data File
means the machine-readable computer code that presents in Inline XBRL electronic format the cover page information for specified forms as required by Rule 406 (§ 232.406 of this chapter). NOTE to definition of Cover Page Interactive Data File: When a filing is submitted using Inline XBRL, if permitted or required and as provided by the EDGAR Filer Manual, a portion of the Cover Page Interactive Data File must be embedded into a form with the remainder submitted as an exhibit to the form.
Dashboard.
The term
dashboard
means an interactive function on EDGAR where electronic filers manage their EDGAR accounts and individuals that electronic filers authorize may take relevant actions for electronic filers' accounts.
Delegated entity.
The term
delegated entity
means an electronic filer that another electronic filer authorizes, on the dashboard, to file on EDGAR on its behalf. Delegated entities must themselves be electronic filers and must follow all rules applicable to electronic filers. Delegated entities are not permitted to further delegate authority to file for a delegating electronic filer, nor are they permitted to take action on the delegating electronic filer's dashboard.
Direct transmission.
The term
direct transmission
means the transmission to EDGAR of one or more electronic submissions.
Disruptive code.
The term
disruptive code
means any active content or other executable code, or any program or set of electronic computer instructions inserted into a computer, operating system, or program that replicates itself or that actually or potentially modifies or in any way alters, damages, destroys or disrupts the file content or the operation of any computer, computer file, computer database, computer system, computer network or software, and as otherwise set forth in the EDGAR Filer Manual.
EDGAR.
The term
EDGAR
(Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval) means the computer system for the receipt, acceptance, review and dissemination of documents submitted in electronic format.
EDGAR Filer Manual.
The term
EDGAR Filer Manual
means the manual that sets forth the requirements for access to EDGAR and the procedural requirements to make electronic submissions on EDGAR.
See
Rule 301 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.301).
Electronic document.
The term
electronic document
means the portion of an electronic submission separately tagged as an individual document in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual.
Electronic filer.
The term
electronic filer
means a person or an entity that submits filings electronically pursuant to Rules 100 and 101 of Regulation S-T (§§ 232.100 and 232.101, respectively).
Electronic filing.
The term
electronic filing
means one or more electronic documents filed under the federal securities laws that are transmitted or delivered to the Commission in electronic format.
Electronic format.
The term
electronic format
means the computerized format of a document prepared in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual.
Electronic submission.
The term
electronic submission
means any document, such as a filing, correspondence, or modular submission, or any discrete set of documents, transmitted or delivered to the Commission in electronic format.
Exchange Act.
The term
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Executable code.
The term
executable code
means instructions to a computer to carry out operations that use features beyond the viewer's, reader's, or Internet browser's native ability to interpret and display HTML, PDF, and static graphic files. Such code may be in binary (machine language) or in script form. Executable code includes disruptive code.
Filing agent.
The term
filing agent
means any person or entity engaged in the business of making submissions on EDGAR on behalf of electronic filers. To act as a delegated entity for an electronic filer, a filing agent must be an electronic filer with an EDGAR account.
Header information.
The term
header information
means information designated by the EDGAR Filer Manual to precede the text of each electronic submission and document submitted therewith via EDGAR that identifies characteristics of the submission and documents in order to facilitate electronic processing by the EDGAR system.
HTML document.
The term
HTML document
means an electronic text document tagged with HyperText Markup Language tags in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual.
Hyperlinks.
The term
hyperlinks
means the representation of an Internet address in a form that an Internet browser application can recognize as an Internet address.
Individual account credentials.
The term
individual account credentials
means credentials issued to individuals for purposes of EDGAR access, as specified in the EDGAR Filer Manual, and used by those individuals to access EDGAR.
Interactive Data File.
The term
Interactive Data File
means the machine-readable computer code that presents information in eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) electronic format pursuant to § 232.405 and as specified by the EDGAR Filer Manual. When a filing is submitted using Inline XBRL as provided by § 232.405(a)(3), a portion of the Interactive Data File is embedded into a filing with the remainder submitted as an exhibit to the filing.
Interactive Data Financial Report.
The term
Interactive Data Financial Report
means the machine-readable computer code that presents information in eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) electronic format pursuant to § 232.407.
Investment Advisers Act.
The term
Investment Advisers Act
means the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
Investment Company Act.
The term
Investment Company Act
means the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Modular submission.
The term
modular submission
means an electronic submission that contains one or more documents, or portions of a document, submitted for storage in the non-public EDGAR data storage area for purposes of subsequent inclusion in one or more electronic filings pursuant to Rule 501(a) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.501(a)).
Official filing.
The term
official filing
means any filing that is received and accepted by the Commission, regardless of filing medium and exclusive of header information, tags and any other technical information required in an electronic filing; except that electronic identification of investment company type and inclusion of identifiers for series and class (or contract, in the case of separate accounts of insurance companies) as required by rule 313 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.313) are deemed part of the official filing.
Original.
The term
original,
when used or implied in the securities laws, rules, regulations or forms, includes the writing itself or any counterpart intended to have the same effect by a person executing or issuing it. If data are stored in a computer or similar device, any printout or other output readable by sight, shown to reflect the data accurately, is an original.
Paper format.
The term
paper format
means a paper document.
Registrant.
The term
registrant
means an issuer of securities for which a Securities Act registration statement is required to be filed and/or an issuer of securities with respect to which an Exchange Act registration statement or report is required to be filed and/or an investment company required to file an Investment Company Act registration statement or report.
Related Official Filing.
The term
Related Official Filing
means the ASCII or HTML format part of the official filing with which all or part of an Interactive Data File appears as an exhibit or, in the case of a filing on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter), and Form N-CSR (§ 274.128 of this chapter), and, to the extent required by § 232.405 [Rule 405 of Regulation S-T] for a business development company as defined in Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter), Form 10-Q
(§ 249.308a of this chapter), and Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter), the ASCII or HTML format part of an official filing that contains the information to which an Interactive Data File corresponds.
Related Official Filing.
The term
Related Official Filing
means the ASCII or HTML format part of the official filing with which all or part of an Interactive Data File appears as an exhibit or, in the case of a filing on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter), Form N-8B-2 (§ 274.12 of this chapter), Form S-6 (§ 239.16 of this chapter), and Form N-CSR (§ 274.128 of this chapter), and, to the extent required by § 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation S-T) for a business development company as defined in Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter), Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter), and Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter), the ASCII or HTML format part of an official filing that contains the information to which an Interactive Data File corresponds.
Securities Act.
The term
Securities Act
means the Securities Act of 1933.
Segmented filing.
The term
segmented filing
means an electronic format document assembled from segments previously submitted to the non-public EDGAR data storage for one-time inclusion in an electronic filing pursuant to Rule 501(b) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.501(b)).
Single-member company.
The term
single-member company
means a company that has a single individual who acts as the sole equity holder, director, and officer (or, in the case of an entity without directors and officers, holds position(s) performing similar activities as a director and officer).
Tag.
The term
tag
means an identifier that highlights specific information to EDGAR that is in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual.
Technical administrator.
The term
technical administrator
means an individual that the electronic filer authorizes on the dashboard to manage the technical aspects of the electronic filer's connection to EDGAR Application Programming Interfaces on the electronic filer's behalf.
Third party filer.
The term
third party filer
means any person or entity that files documents with the Commission with respect to another entity.
Trust Indenture Act.
The term
Trust Indenture Act
means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
Unofficial PDF copy.
The term
unofficial PDF copy
means an optional copy of an electronic document that may be included in an EDGAR submission tagged as a Portable Document Format document in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual and submitted in accordance with Rule 104 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.104).
User.
The term
user
means an individual that the electronic filer authorizes on the dashboard to make submissions on EDGAR on the electronic filer's behalf.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 36456, July 8, 1997; 64 FR 27894, May 21, 1999; 65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000; 70 FR 6571, Feb. 8, 2005; 70 FR 43569, July 27, 2005; 74 FR 6813, Feb. 10, 2009; 74 FR 7774, Feb. 19, 2009; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 79 FR 57332, Sept. 24, 2014; 80 FR 14549, Mar. 19, 2015; 82 FR 14142, Mar. 17, 2017; 83 FR 40874, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 12722, Apr. 2, 2019; 85 FR 26099, May 1, 2020; 85 FR 33357, June 1, 2020; 87 FR 38964, June 30, 2022; 88 FR 70507, Oct. 11, 2023; 89 FR 106222, Dec 26, 2024]
§ 232.12
Business hours of the Commission.
(a)
General.
The principal office of the Commission, at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, is open each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays, from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect,
provided that
hours for the filing of documents pursuant to the Acts or the rules and regulations thereunder are as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Submissions made in paper.
Filers may submit paper documents filed with or otherwise furnished to the Commission each day, except Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays, from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or
Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect.
(c)
Submissions by direct transmission.
Electronic filings and other documents may be submitted to the Commission each day, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 21349, Apr. 21, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67761, Dec. 30, 1994; 65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000; 65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000; 68 FR 25799, May 13, 2003; 73 FR 32227, June 5, 2008; 86 FR 7972, Feb. 3, 2021; 88 FR 12209, Feb. 27, 2023]
§ 232.13
Date of filing; adjustment of filing date.
(a)
General.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the business day on which a filing is received by the Commission shall be the date of filing thereof, if:
(i) All requirements of the Acts and rules applicable to such filing have been complied with;
(ii) The filing conforms to the applicable technical standards regarding electronic format in the EDGAR Filer Manual; and
(iii) With respect to Securities Act filings, including filings under section 24(f) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(f)), the required fee payment has been confirmed,
provided that
the failure to pay an insignificant amount of the fee at the time of the filing, as a result of a
bona fide
error, shall not affect the date of filing.
(2) If the conditions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section are otherwise satisfied, all filings submitted by direct transmission commencing on or before 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the same business day, and all filings submitted by direct transmission commencing after 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed as of the next business day.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto filed pursuant to § 230.462(b) of this chapter (Rule 462(b)) by direct transmission commencing on or before 10 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Savings Time whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the same business day.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a Form 3, 4, or 5 (referenced in §§ 249.103, 249.104, and 249.105 of this chapter, respectively), a Schedule 14N (referenced in § 240.14n-101 of this chapter), a Form 144 (referenced in § 239.144 of this chapter), or a Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G, inclusive of any amendments thereto (§§ 240.13d-101 and 240.13d-102 of this chapter), submitted by direct transmission commencing on or before 10 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the same business day.

# Note 1 to paragraph (a):
Electronic filings that have an automatic or immediate effective date must be deemed filed, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, before any waiting period for automatic effectiveness commences or before the filing becomes immediately effective, whichever applies.
(b)
Adjustment of the filing date.
If an electronic filer in good faith attempts to file a document with the Commission in a timely manner but the filing is delayed due to technical difficulties beyond the electronic filer's control, the electronic filer may request an adjustment of the filing date of such document. The Commission, or the staff acting pursuant to delegated authority, may grant the request if it appears that such adjustment is appropriate and consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.
(c)
Payment of fees.
Fees required with respect to a filing that is submitted electronically shall be paid in accordance with the procedures set forth in Instructions for Filing Fees—Rule 3a of the Commission's Informal and Other Procedures (§ 202.3a of this chapter).

# Note 2 to paragraph (c):
All filing fees paid by electronic filers must be submitted to the lockbox depository or system, as provided in Rule 3a, including those pertaining to documents filed in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption.
(d) Where the Commission's rules, schedules and forms provide that a document must be filed on the same day it is published, furnished, sent or given to
security holders or others, an electronic filer may file the document with the Commission electronically before or on the date the document is published, furnished, sent or given, or if such publication or distribution does not occur during the official business hours of the Commission, as soon as practicable on the next business day. Any associated time periods shall be calculated on the basis of the publication or distribution date (as applicable), and not on the basis of the date of filing.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67761, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 26618, May 17, 1995; 62 FR 47938, Sept. 12, 1997; 64 FR 61451, Nov. 10, 1999; 68 FR 25799, May 13, 2003; 75 FR 56780, Sept. 16, 2010; 86 FR 70200, Dec. 9, 2021; 88 FR 12209, Feb. 27, 2023; 88 FR 76981, Nov. 7, 2023]
§ 232.14
Paper filings not accepted without exemption.
The Commission will not accept in paper format any filing required to be submitted electronically under Rules 100 and 101 of Regulation S-T (§§ 232.100 and 232.101 respectively), unless the filing satisfies the requirements for a temporary or continuing hardship exemption under Rule 201 or 202 of Regulation S-T (§§ 232.201 or 232.202 respectively).
[62 FR 58649, Oct. 30, 1997]
§ 232.15
Administration of EDGAR.
(a) In its administration of EDGAR, the Commission may take the following actions to promote the reliability and integrity of submissions made through EDGAR.
(1) If the Commission determines that a submission contains personally identifiable information that if released may result in financial or personal harm to an individual, which may comprise a single item of information or a combination of two or more items, the Commission may redact such information from the submission, prevent dissemination of the submission, and/or remove the submission from the Commission's public website, and may communicate as necessary with the filer to facilitate submission of a version in which such information is redacted;
(2) The Commission may prevent the submission to EDGAR of any submission that poses a cybersecurity threat, including but not limited to, submissions containing any malware or virus, and may communicate as necessary with the filer regarding the submission;
(3) If the Commission determines that a submission has not been processed by EDGAR, or has been processed incorrectly by EDGAR, or contains an error attributable to the Commission staff, the Commission may correct and/or prevent public dissemination of the submission and may communicate with the filer as necessary to facilitate the filer's submission of an amendment to, or a notice of withdrawal of, the filer's submission (a “filer corrective disclosure”);
(4) If the Commission determines that a submission is made under an incorrect EDGAR unique identifying number, the Commission may remove and/or prevent public dissemination of the submission and may communicate with the filer as necessary to facilitate a filer corrective disclosure;
(5) If the Commission determines that a dispute exists regarding the authority to make submissions on behalf of a filer, the Commission may prevent a filer's ability to make submissions until the dispute is resolved by the disputing parties or by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(6) If the Commission has reason to believe that an attempted submission may be misleading or manipulative, the Commission may prevent acceptance or dissemination of the submission unless, after evaluating the circumstances surrounding the submission, the Commission's concerns are satisfactorily addressed;
(7) If the Commission has reason to believe that a filer has made an unauthorized submission or attempted to make an unauthorized submission, the Commission may prevent any further submissions by the filer or otherwise remove the filer's access to EDGAR; and
(8) If the Commission otherwise has reason to believe that, to promote the reliability and integrity of submissions made through EDGAR, it must address
a submission issue that cannot be addressed solely by filer corrective disclosure or by the actions set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the Commission may take such further steps as are appropriate to address the matter and communicate as necessary with the filer regarding the submission.
(b) The Commission may act under paragraph (a) of this section without providing advance notice to the filer or any other person. As soon as reasonably practicable after taking action under paragraph (a) of this section, the Commission will provide written notice and a brief factual statement of the basis for the action to the filer and any other person the Commission determines is relevant to the matter (“relevant persons”). The Commission will send the notice and factual statement by electronic mail to the email address on record in the filer's EDGAR account, and to the email address of any relevant persons. The Commission may also send, if necessary, the notice and factual statement by registered, certified, or express mail to the physical address on record in the filer's EDGAR account and the physical address of any relevant persons.
(c) Nothing in this section prevents a filer from addressing an error or mistake in the filer's submission by making a filer corrective disclosure.
[86 FR 7967, Feb. 3, 2021]

# Electronic Filing Requirements
§ 232.100
Persons and entities subject to mandated electronic filing.
The following persons or entities shall be subject to the electronic filing requirements of this part 232:
(a) Registrants and other entities whose filings are subject to review by the Division of Corporation Finance;
(b) Persons or entities whose filings are subject to review by the Division of Investment Management;
(c) Persons or entities whose filings are subject to review by the Division of Trading and Markets; and
(d) Any party (including natural persons) that files a document jointly with, or as a third party filer with respect to, a person or entity that is subject to mandated electronic filing requirements.
[62 FR 36456, July 8, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 36699, May 24, 2002; 72 FR 14417, Mar. 28, 2007; 73 FR 10616, Feb. 27, 2008; 87 FR 38964, June 30, 2022; 90 FR 7359, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 232.101
Mandated electronic submissions and exceptions.
(a)
Mandated electronic submissions.
(1) The following filings, including any related correspondence and supplemental information, except as otherwise provided, shall be submitted in electronic format:
(i) Registration statements and prospectuses filed pursuant to the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77a,
et seq.
) or registration statements filed pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(b) or (g)), and certifications that a security has been approved by an exchange for listing and registration filed pursuant to Section 12(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(d)) and § 240.12d1-3 of this chapter (Rule 12d1-3) under the Exchange Act. The certification that a security has been approved by an exchange for listing and registration must be made on EDGAR in the electronic format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T). Notwithstanding § 232.104 of this chapter (Rule 104 of Regulation S-T), the certification filed under this paragraph will be considered as officially filed with the Commission;
(ii) Statements and applications filed with the Commission pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act (15 U.S.C. 77aaa
et seq.
), other than applications for exemptive relief filed pursuant to section 304 (15 U.S.C. 77ddd) and section 310 (15 U.S.C. 77jjj) of that Act;
(iii) Statements, reports, and schedules filed with the Commission pursuant to sections 13, 14, 14A(d), 15(d), or 16(a) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m, 78n, 78n-1(d), 78o(d), and 78p(a)), and proxy materials required to be furnished for the information of the Commission pursuant to §§ 240.14a-3 and 240.14c-3 of this chapter (Rules 14a-3 and 14c-3) or in connection with annual reports on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) filed pursuant to section 15(d) of the Exchange Act;

# Note 1 to paragraph (a)(1)(iii).
Electronic filers filing Schedules 13D and 13G with respect to foreign private issuers should include in the submission header all zeroes (
i.e.,
00-0000000) for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax identification number because the EDGAR system requires an IRS number tag to be inserted for the subject company as a prerequisite to acceptance of the filing.

# Note 2 to paragraph (a)(1)(iii).
Foreign private issuers must file or submit their Form 6-K reports (§ 249.306 of this chapter) in electronic format.
(iv) Documents filed with the Commission pursuant to sections 8, 17, 20, 23(c), 24(b), 24(e), 24(f), and 30 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-8, 80a-17, 80a-20, 80a-23(c), 80a-24(b), 80a-24(e), 80a-24(f), and 80a-29) and any application for an order under any section of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
). The filing of an application for an order under any section of the Investment Company Act must be made on EDGAR as required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in § 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T). Notwithstanding § 232.104 (Rule 104 of Regulation S-T), the documents filed or furnished under this paragraph will be considered as officially filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission;
(v) Documents relating to offerings exempt from registration under the Securities Act filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation E (§§ 230.601-230.610a of this chapter);
(vi) Form CB (§§ 239.800 and 249.480 of this chapter) filed or submitted under § 230.801 or 230.802 of this chapter or § 240.13e-4(h)(8), 240.14d-1(c), or 240.14e-2(d) of this chapter;
(vii) Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) when filed in connection with a Form CB (§§ 239.800 and 249.480 of this chapter) or a Form 1-A (§ 239.90 of this chapter);
(viii) Form F-N (§ 239.43 of this chapter) filed by foreign banks and insurance companies and certain of their holding companies and finance subsidiaries under § 230.489 of this chapter;
(ix) Form ID (§§ 239.63, 249.446, 269.7 and 274.402 of this chapter); the Form ID authenticating document required by Rule 10(b) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.10(b)) also shall be filed in electronic format as an uploaded Portable Document Format (PDF) attachment to the Form ID filing. Other related correspondence and supplemental information submitted after the Form ID filing shall not be submitted in electronic format;
(x) Form 25 (§ 249.25 of this chapter);
(xi) Form TA-1 (§ 249.100 of this chapter), Form TA-2 (§ 249.102 of this chapter), and Form TA-W (§ 249.101 of this chapter);
(xii) Forms 15 and 15F (§ 249.323 and § 249.324 of this chapter);
(xiii) Form D (§ 239.500 of this chapter).
(xiv) Form NRSRO (§ 249b.300 of this chapter), and the information and documents in Exhibits 1 through 9 to Form NRSRO, filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission under § 240.17g-1(e), (f), and (g) of this chapter and the annual reports filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission under § 240.17g-3 of this chapter. The filings or furnishings must be made on EDGAR as PDF documents in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.11). Notwithstanding Rule 104 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.104), the PDF documents filed or furnished under this paragraph will be considered as officially filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission.
(xv) Form ABS-EE (§ 249.1401 of this chapter);
(xvi) Form ABS-15G (as defined in § 249.1400 of this chapter);
(xvii) Documents filed with the Commission pursuant to section 13(n) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)) and the rules and regulations thereunder, including Form SDR (17 CFR 249.1500) and reports filed pursuant to Rules 13n-11(d) and (f) (17 CFR 240.13n-11(d) and (f)) under the Exchange Act;
(xviii) Filings made pursuant to Regulation A (§§ 230.251 through 230.262 of this chapter); and
(xix) Form C (§ 239.900 of this chapter). Exhibits to Form C (§ 239.900 of this chapter) may be filed on EDGAR as PDF documents in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.11 of this chapter). Notwithstanding Rule 104 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.104 of this chapter), the PDF documents filed under this paragraph will
be considered as officially filed with the Commission;
(xx) Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter). Exhibits and attachments to Form Funding Portal (§ 249.2000 of this chapter) may be filed on EDGAR as PDF documents in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.11 of this chapter). Notwithstanding Rule 104 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.104 of this chapter), the PDF documents filed under this paragraph will be considered as officially filed with the Commission.
(xxi) Form ATS-N (§ 249.640 of this chapter);
(xxii) Confidential treatment requests filed with the Commission pursuant to section 13(f) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) and the rules and regulations in this chapter, including Form 13F (§ 249.325 of this chapter), or pursuant to the instructions to Form N-PX (§§ 249.326 and 274.129 of this chapter). The filings must be made on EDGAR in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in § 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T). Notwithstanding § 232.104 (Rule 104 of Regulation S-T), the documents filed or furnished under this paragraph (a)(1)(xxii) will be considered as officially filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission; and
(xxiii) Any application for an order under any section of the Investment Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
). The filings must be made on EDGAR in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in § 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T). Notwithstanding § 232.104 (Rule 104 of Regulation S-T), the documents filed or furnished under this paragraph will be considered as officially filed with or furnished to, as applicable, the Commission.
(xxiv) Annual reports to security holders furnished for the information of the Commission under § 240.14a-3(c) of this chapter or § 240.14c-3(b) of this chapter, under the requirements of Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) filed by registrants under Exchange Act Section 15(d) (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)), or by foreign private issuers filed on Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter) under § 240.13a-16 of this chapter or § 240.15d-16 of this chapter;
(xxv) Notices of exempt solicitation furnished for the information of the Commission pursuant to Rule 14a-6(g) (§ 240.14a-6(g) of this chapter) and notices of exempt preliminary roll-up communications furnished for the information of the Commission pursuant to § 240.14a-6(n) of this chapter (Rule 14a-6(n));
(xxvi) Form 11-K (§ 249.311 of this chapter);
(xxvii) Form 144 (§ 239.144 of this chapter), where the issuer of the securities is, and has been for a period of at least 90 days immediately before the sale, subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78
o
(d), respectively);
(xxviii) Periodic reports and reports with respect to distributions of primary obligations filed by:
(A) The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development under Section 15(a) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286k-1(a)) and part 285 of this chapter;
(B) The Inter-American Development Bank under Section 11(a) of the Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283h(a)) and part 286 of this chapter;
(C) The Asian Development Bank under Section 11(a) of the Asian Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 285h(a)) and part 287 of this chapter;
(D) The African Development Bank under Section 9(a) of the African Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 290i-9(a)) and part 288 of this chapter;
(E) The International Finance Corporation under Section 13(a) of the International Finance Corporation Act (22 U.S.C. 282k(a)) and part 289 of this chapter; and
(F) The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under Section 9(a) of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Act (22 U.S.C. 290l-7(a)) and part 290 of this chapter;
(xxix) A report or other document submitted by a foreign private issuer under cover of Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter) that the issuer must furnish and make public under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the issuer is
incorporated, domiciled or legally organized (the foreign private issuer's “home country”), or under the rules of the home country exchange on which the issuer's securities are traded, as long as the report or other document is not a press release, is not required to be and has not been distributed to the issuer's security holders, and, if discussing a material event, has already been the subject of a Form 6-K or other Commission filing or submission on EDGAR;
(xxx) Documents filed with the Commission pursuant to section 33 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-32); and
(xxxi) Reports filed pursuant to § 240.17Ad-27 of this chapter (Rule 17Ad-27 under the Exchange Act).
(xxxii)(A) The annual reports filed with the Commission under § 240.17a-5(d) of this chapter, the supplemental reports and statements filed with the Commission under § 240.17a-5(k) of this chapter, the annual reports filed with the Commission under § 240.17a-12(b) of this chapter, the accountant's reports filed with the Commission under § 240.17a-12(k), (l), and (m) of this chapter, the reports filed with the Commission under § 240.17a-19 of this chapter, and the annual reports filed with the Commission under § 240.18a-7(c) of this chapter. The submissions must be made on EDGAR in the electronic format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual, as defined in § 232.11 (Rule 11 of Regulation S-T) and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of this part 232 (Regulation S-T);
(B) The reports filed and furnished, as applicable, with the Commission under § 240.17h-2T of this chapter. The submissions must be made on EDGAR in the electronic format required by the EDGAR filer Manual, as defined in Rule 11 of Regulation S-T, and must be filed in accordance with the requirements of Regulation S-T;
(xxxiii) Notices (and withdrawals of notices) filed with the Commission pursuant to § 240.3a71-3(d)(1)(vi) of this chapter (Rule 3a71-3(d)(1)(vi));
(xxxiv) Notices (and amendments, including notices of dispute termination) provided to the Commission pursuant to § 240.15fi-3(c) of this chapter (Rule 15fi-3(c));
(xxxv) Compliance reports submitted with the Commission pursuant to § 240.15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A) of this chapter (Rule 15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A));
(xxxvi) Form 1 (§ 249.1 of this chapter);
(xxxvii) Form 1-N (§ 249.10 of this chapter); and
(xxxviii) Form 15A (§ 249.801 of this chapter).
(2) The following amendments to filings and applications, including any related correspondence and supplemental information except as otherwise provided, shall be submitted as follows:
(i) Any amendment to a filing or application submitted by or relating to a registrant or an applicant that is required to file electronically, including any amendment to a paper filing or application, shall be submitted in electronic format;
(ii) The first electronic amendment to a paper format Schedule 13D (§ 240.13d-101 of this chapter) or Schedule 13G (§ 240.13d-102 of this chapter), shall restate the entire text of the Schedule 13D or 13G, but previously filed paper exhibits to such Schedules are not required to be restated electronically.
See
Rule 102 (§ 232.102) regarding amendments to exhibits previously filed in paper format. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the sole purpose of filing the first electronic Schedule 13D or 13G amendment is to report a change in beneficial ownership that would terminate the filer's obligation to report, the amendment need not include a restatement of the entire text of the Schedule being amended.
(3) Supplemental information, including documents related to applications under any section of the Investment Company Act, shall be submitted in electronic format except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The information shall be stored in the non-public EDGAR data storage area as correspondence. Supplemental information that is submitted in electronic format shall not be returned.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(3):
Failure to submit a required electronic filing pursuant to this paragraph (a), as well as any required confirming electronic copy of a paper filing made in reliance on a hardship exemption, as provided in Rules 201 and 202 of Regulation S-T (§§ 232.201 and 232.202), will result in ineligibility to use Forms S-2, S-3, S-8, SF-3, F-
2 and F-3 (see §§ 239.12, 239.13, 239.16b, 239.32, 239.33 and 239.45 of this chapter, respectively), restrict incorporation by reference of the document submitted in paper (see Rule 303 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.303)), or toll certain time periods associated with tender offers (see Rule 13e-4(f)(12) (§ 240.13e-4(f)(12) of this chapter) and Rule 14e-1(e) (§ 240.14e-1(e) of this chapter)).
(b)
Permitted electronic submissions.
The following documents may be submitted to the Commission in electronic format, at the option of the electronic filer:
(1)-(9) [Reserved]
(c)
Documents that shall not be submitted in electronic format on EDGAR.
Except as otherwise specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the following shall not be submitted in electronic format on EDGAR:
(1)(i) Confidential treatment requests and the information with respect to which confidential treatment is requested;
(ii) Preliminary proxy materials and information statements with respect to a matter specified in Item 14 of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter) for which confidential treatment has been requested in the manner prescribed by Rule 14a-6(e)(2) (§ 240.14a-6(e)(2) of this chapter) or Rule 14c-5(d)(2) (§ 240.14c-5(d)(2) of this chapter);
(2) Supplemental information, if the submitter requests that the information be protected from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) pursuant to a request for confidential treatment under Rule 83 (§ 200.83 of this chapter) or if the submitter requests that the information be returned after staff review and the information is of the type typically returned by the staff pursuant to Rule 418(b) of Regulation C (§ 230.418(b) of this chapter) or Rule 12b-4 of Regulation 12B (§ 240.12b-4 of this chapter);
(3) Shareholder proposals and all related correspondence submitted pursuant to Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act (§ 240.14a-8 of this chapter);
(4) No-action and interpretive letter requests (§ 200.81 of this chapter and 15 U.S.C. 78
l
(h));
(5) Applications for exemptive relief filed pursuant to Sections 304 and 310 of the Trust Indenture Act;
(6) Filings on Form 144 (§ 239.144 of this chapter) where the issuer of the securities is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78
o
(d), respectively);
(7) Promotional and sales material submitted pursuant to Securities Act Industry Guide 5 (§ 229.801(e) of this chapter) or otherwise supplementally furnished for review by the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance;
(8) [Reserved]
(9) Exchange Act filings submitted to the Division of Trading and Markets other than those that are submitted in electronic format as mandated or permitted electronic submissions under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section or that are submitted electronically in a filing system other than EDGAR;
(10) Documents relating to investigations and litigation submitted pursuant to the Subpart D of Part 201 of this chapter;
(11)-(14) [Reserved]
(15) Annual reports filed with the Commission by indenture trustees pursuant to Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act (15 U.S.C. 77mmm); and
(16) Applications for an exemption from Exchange Act reporting obligations filed pursuant to Section 12(h) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(h)).
(d) The following must be filed or submitted, as applicable, in electronic format:
(1) All documents, including any information with respect to which confidential treatment is requested, filed pursuant to section 13(n) (15 U.S.C. 78m(n)) and section 13(f) (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the instructions to Form N-PX (§§ 249.326 and 274.129 of this chapter);
(2) All documents, including any information with respect to which confidential treatment is requested, filed pursuant to §§ 240.17a-5(d), 240.17a-5(k), 240.17a-12(b), 240.17a-12(k) through (m), 240.17a-19, 240.17h-2T, or 240.18a-7(c) of this chapter;
(3) All notices (and amendments, including notices of dispute termination), including any information with respect to which confidential treatment is requested, provided to the Commission pursuant to § 240.15fi-3(c) of this chapter; and
(4) All compliance reports, including any information with respect to which confidential treatment is requested, submitted to the Commission pursuant to § 240.15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A) of this chapter.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 26383, May 3, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 232.101, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 232.102
Exhibits.
(a) Exhibits to an electronic filing that have not previously been filed with the Commission shall be filed in electronic format, absent a hardship exemption. Previously filed exhibits, whether in paper or electronic format, may be incorporated by reference into an electronic filing to the extent permitted by Rule 411 under the Securities Act (§ 230.411 of this chapter), Rule 12b-23 under the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-23 of this chapter), Rule 0-4 under the Investment Company Act (§ 270.0-4 of this chapter), Rule 0-6 under the Advisers Act (§ 275.0-6 of this chapter) or Rule 303 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.303). An electronic filer may, at its option, restate in electronic format any exhibit incorporated by reference that originally was filed in paper format.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
Exhibits to a Commission schedule filed pursuant to Section 13 or 14(d) of the Exchange Act may be filed in paper under cover of Form SE where such exhibits previously were filed in paper (prior to a registrant's becoming subject to mandated electronic filing or pursuant to a hardship exemption) and are required to be refiled pursuant to the schedule's general instructions. See Rule 311(b) of Regulation S-T (17 CFR 232.311(b)).
(b) Amendments to all exhibits shall be filed in electronic format, absent a hardship exemption.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an electronic filer shall, upon amendment, restate in electronic format its articles of incorporation, by-laws or investment advisory agreement (in the case of a registered investment company or a business development company).
(d) Each electronic filing requiring exhibits must include an exhibit index which must appear before the required signatures in the document. The index must list each exhibit filed, whether filed electronically or in paper. For electronic filings on Form S-6 (§ 239.16 of this chapter), Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter), Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter), Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter), Form N-5 (§ 274.5 of this chapter), Form N-1A (§ 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§ 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§ 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§ 274.11c of this chapter), Form N-6 (§ 274.11d of this chapter), Form N-8B2 (§ 274.12 of this chapter), Form N-CSR (§ 274.128 of this chapter), or filings subject to Item 601 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601 of this chapter), each exhibit identified in the exhibit index (other than an exhibit filed in eXtensible Business Reporting Language or an exhibit that is filed with Form ABS-EE (§ 249.1401 of this chapter)) must include an active link to an exhibit that is filed with the document or, if the exhibit is incorporated by reference, an active hyperlink to the exhibit separately filed on EDGAR.Whenever a filer files an exhibit in paper pursuant to a temporary or continuing hardship exemption (§ 232.201 or § 232.202) or pursuant to § 232.311, the filer must place the letter “P” next to the listed exhibit in the exhibit index of the electronic filing to reflect the fact that the filer filed the exhibit in paper. In addition, if the exhibit is filed in paper pursuant to § 232.311, the filer must place the designation “Rule 311” next to the letter “P” in the exhibit index.If the exhibit is filed in paper pursuant to a temporary or continuing hardship exemption, the filer must place the letters “TH” or “CH,” respectively, next to the letter “P” in the exhibit index. Whenever an electronic confirming copy of an exhibit is filed pursuant to a hardship exemption (§ 232.201 or § 232.202(d)), the exhibit index should specify where the confirming electronic copy can be located; in addition, the designation “CE” (confirming electronic) should be placed next to the listed exhibit in the exhibit index.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, any incorporation by reference by
a registered investment company or a business development company must relate only to documents that have been filed in electronic format on the EDGAR system, unless the document has been filed in paper under a hardship exemption (§ 232.201 or § 232.202) and any required confirming electronic copy has been submitted.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67762, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 32824, June 23, 1995; 62 FR 36457, July 8, 1997; 64 FR 27894, May 21, 1999; 70 FR 43569, July 27, 2005; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 82 FR 14142, Mar. 17, 2017; 84 FR 12722, Apr. 2, 2019; 87 FR 38984, June 30, 2022]
§ 232.103
Liability for transmission errors or omissions in documents filed via EDGAR.
An electronic filer shall not be subject to the liability and anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws with respect to an error or omission in an electronic filing resulting solely from electronic transmission errors beyond the control of the filer, where the filer corrects the error or omission by the filing of an amendment in electronic format as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filer becomes aware of the error or omission.
[65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000]
§ 232.104
Unofficial PDF copies included in an electronic submission.
(a) An electronic submission, other than a Form 3 (§ 249.103 of this chapter), a Form 4 (§ 249.104 of this chapter), a Form 5 (§ 249.105 of this chapter), a Form ID (§§ 239.63, 249.446, 269.7 and 274.402 of this chapter), a Form TA-1 (§ 249.100 of this chapter), a Form TA-2 (§ 249.102 of this chapter), a Form TA-W (§ 249.101 of this chapter) or a Form D (§ 239.500 of this chapter), may include one unofficial PDF copy of each electronic document contained within that submission, tagged in the format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section, each unofficial PDF copy must be substantively equivalent to its associated electronic document contained in the electronic submission. An unofficial PDF copy may contain graphic and image material (but not animated graphics, or audio or video material), notwithstanding the fact that its HTML or ASCII document counterpart may not contain such material but instead may contain a fair and accurate narrative description or tabular representation of any omitted graphic or image material.
(c) If a filer omits an unofficial PDF copy from, or submits one or more flawed unofficial PDF copies in, the electronic submission of an official filing, the filer may add or resubmit an unofficial PDF copy by electronically submitting an amendment to the filing to which it relates. The amendment must include an explanatory note that the purpose of the amendment is to add or to correct an unofficial PDF copy.
(1) If such an amendment is filed, the official amendment may consist solely of the cover page (or first page of the document), the explanatory note, and the signature page and exhibit index (where appropriate). The corresponding unofficial copy must include the complete text of the official filing document for which the amendment is being submitted.
(2) If the amendment is being filed to add or resubmit an unofficial PDF copy of one or more exhibits, the submission may consist of the following: the official filing—consisting of the cover page (or first page of the document), the explanatory note, the signature page (where appropriate), the exhibit index, and a separate electronic exhibit document for each exhibit for which an unofficial PDF copy is being submitted—and the corresponding unofficial PDF copy of each exhibit document. However, the text of the official exhibit document need not repeat the text of the exhibit; that document may contain only the following legend:
RESUBMITTED TO ADD/REPLACE UNOFFICIAL PDF COPY OF EXHIBIT.
(d) An unofficial PDF copy is not filed for purposes of section 11 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77k), section 18 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78r), section 323 of the Trust Indenture Act (15 U.S.C. 77www), or section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-33(b)), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of such sections, and is not part of any registration statement to
which it relates. An unofficial PDF copy is, however, subject to all other civil liability and anti-fraud provisions of the above Acts or other laws.
(e) Unofficial PDF copies that are prospectuses are subject to liability under Section 12 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77
l
).
(f) An unofficial PDF copy of a correspondence document contained in an electronic submission need not be substantively equivalent to that correspondence document.
[64 FR 27895, May 21, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000; 68 FR 25799, May 13, 2003; 69 FR 22709, Apr. 26, 2004; 71 FR 74708, Dec. 12, 2006; 73 FR 10616, Feb. 27, 2008; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]
§ 232.105
Use of HTML and hyperlinks.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Electronic filers may not include in any HTML document hyperlinks to sites, locations, or documents outside the HTML document, except links to officially filed documents within the current submission and to documents previously filed electronically and located in the EDGAR database on the Commission's public Web site (
www.sec.gov
). Electronic filers also may include within an HTML document links to different sections within that single HTML document.
(c) If a filer includes an external hyperlink within a filed document, the information contained in the linked material will not be considered part of the document for determining compliance with reporting obligations, but the inclusion of the link will cause the filer to be subject to the civil liability and antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws with reference to the information contained in the linked material.
(d) Electronic filers submitting Form S-6 (§ 239.16 of this chapter), Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter), Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter), Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), Form N-5 (§ 274.5 of this chapter), Form N-1A (§ 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§ 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§ 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§ 274.11c of this chapter), Form N-6 (§ 274.11d of this chapter), Form N-8B2 (§ 274.12 of this chapter), Form N-CSR (§ 274.128 of this chapter), or a registration statement or report subject to Item 601 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601 of this chapter), must submit such registration statement or report in HTML and each exhibit identified in the exhibit index (other than an exhibit filed in eXtensible Business Reporting Language or an exhibit filed with Form ABS-EE (§ 249.1401 of this chapter)) must include an active link to an exhibit that is filed with the registration statement or report or, if the exhibit is incorporated by reference, an active hyperlink to the exhibit separately filed on EDGAR, unless such exhibit is filed in paper pursuant to a temporary or continuing hardship exemption under Rules 201 or 202 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201 or § 232.202) or pursuant to Rule 311 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.311).
Instructions to paragraph (d):
(1) No hyperlink is required for any exhibit incorporated by reference that has not been filed with the Commission in electronic format.
(2) An electronic filer must correct an inaccurate or nonfunctioning link or hyperlink to an exhibit, in the case of a registration statement that is not yet effective, by filing an amendment to the registration statement containing the inaccurate or nonfunctioning link or hyperlink; or, in the case of a registration statement that has become effective or an Exchange Act report, an electronic filer must correct the inaccurate or nonfunctioning link or hyperlink in the next Exchange Act periodic report that requires, or includes, an exhibit pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601 of this chapter), in the case of an investment company, a report on Form N-CSR (§ 274.128 of this chapter), or, in the case of a foreign private issuer (as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter), Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter) or Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter). Alternatively, an electronic filer may correct an inaccurate or nonfunctioning link or hyperlink in a registration statement that has become effective by filing a post-effective amendment to the registration statement.
(e) Except for exhibits, which are covered by paragraph (d) of this section, electronic filers that are incorporating information by reference pursuant to Rule 411 under the Securities
Act (§ 230.411 of this chapter), Rule 12b-23 under the Exchange Act (§ 240.12b-23 of this chapter), or Rule 0-4 under the Investment Company Act (§ 270.0-4 of this chapter) must submit such registration statement or report in HTML and must include an active hyperlink to such incorporated information when required by those rules. A hyperlink is not required if the incorporated information is filed in paper pursuant to a temporary or continuing hardship exemption under Rules 201 or 202 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201 or § 232.202) or pursuant to Rule 311 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.311).
Instructions to paragraph (e):
(1) No hyperlink is required for any information incorporated by reference that has not been filed with the Commission in electronic format.
(2) In the case of a registration statement that is not yet effective, an electronic filer must correct an inaccurate or nonfunctioning hyperlink by filing an amendment to such registration statement.
[65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 82019, Nov. 18, 2016; 82 FR 14142, Mar. 17, 2017; 84 FR 12722, Apr. 2, 2019; 84 FR 39967, Aug. 13, 2019]
§ 232.106
Prohibition against electronic submissions containing executable code.
(a) Electronic submissions must not contain executable code. Attempted submissions identified as containing executable code will be suspended, unless the executable code is contained only in one or more PDF documents, in which case the submission will be accepted but the PDF document(s) containing executable code will be deleted and not disseminated.
(b) If an electronic submission has been accepted, and the Commission staff later determines that the accepted submission contains executable code, the staff may delete from the EDGAR system the entire accepted electronic submission or any document contained in the accepted electronic submission. The Commission staff may direct the electronic filer to resubmit electronically replacement document(s) or a replacement submission in its entirety, in compliance with this provision and the EDGAR Filer Manual.

# Note to § 232.106:
A violation of this section or the relevant EDGAR Filer Manual section also may be a violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986, as amended, and other statutes and laws.
[64 FR 27895, May 21, 1999]

# Hardship Exemptions
§ 232.201
Temporary hardship exemption.
(a) If an electronic filer experiences unanticipated technical difficulties preventing the timely preparation and submission of an electronic filing, other than a Form 3 (§ 249.103 of this chapter), a Form 4 (§ 249.104 of this chapter), a Form 5 (§ 249.105 of this chapter), a Form ID (§§ 239.63, 249.446, 269.7 and 274.402 of this chapter), a Form TA-1 (§ 249.100 of this chapter), a Form TA-2 (§ 249.102 of this chapter), a Form TA-W (§ 249.101 of this chapter), a Form D (§ 239.500 of this chapter), an application for an order under any section of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
), an application for an order under any section of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
), a notice or withdrawal of a notice filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 3a71-3(d)(1)(vi) (§ 240.3a71-3(d)(1)(vi) of this chapter) under the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), an Interactive Data File (as defined in § 232.11), an Asset Data File (as defined in § 232.11), or a Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G (§§ 240.13d-101 and 240.13d-102 of this chapter), the electronic filer may file the subject filing, under cover of Form TH (§§ 239.65, 249.447, 269.10 and 274.404 of this chapter), in paper format no later than one business day after the date on which the filing was to be made.
(1) An electronic imaged copy of the paper format document shall be the official filing for purposes of the federal securities laws.
(2) The following legend shall be set forth in capital letters on the cover page of the paper format document:
IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 201 OF REGULATION S-T, THIS (
specify document
) IS BEING FILED IN PAPER PURSUANT TO A TEMPORARY HARDSHIP EXEMPTION
(3) Signatures to the paper format document may be in typed form rather than manual format. See Rule 302 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.302). All other requirements relating to paper format filings shall be satisfied.
(4) If the exemption pertains to a document filed pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m and 78o(d)) or section 30 of the Investment Company Act and the paper format document is filed in the manner specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the filing shall be deemed to have been filed by its required due date.

# Notes to paragraph (
a

# ):
1. Where a temporary hardship exemption relates to an exhibit only, the filer must file the paper format exhibit and a Form TH (§§ 239.65, 249.447, 269.10, and 274.404 of this chapter) under cover of Form SE (§§ 239.64, 249.444, 269.8, and 274.403 of this chapter).
2. Filers unable to submit a report within a prescribed time period because of electronic difficulties shall comply with the provisions of this section and shall not use Form 12b-25 (§ 249.322 of this chapter) as a notification of late filing.
(b) An electronic format copy of the filed paper format document shall be submitted to the Commission within six business days of filing the paper format document. Failure to submit the confirming electronic copy of a paper filing made in reliance on the temporary hardship exemption, as required in this paragraph (b), will result in ineligibility to use Form SF-3 (
see
§ 239.45 of this chapter). The electronic format version shall contain the following statement in capital letters at the top of the first page of the document:
THIS DOCUMENT IS A COPY OF THE (
specify document
) FILED ON (
date
) PURSUANT TO A RULE 201 TEMPORARY HARDSHIP EXEMPTION

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
As provided elsewhere in this chapter, failure to submit the confirming electronic copy of a paper filing made in reliance on the temporary hardship exemption, as required in paragraph (b) of this section, will result in ineligibility to use Forms S-3, S-8, and F-3 (
see
§§ 239.13, 239.16b, and 239.33 of this chapter, respectively), restrict incorporation by reference into an electronic filing of the document submitted in paper (
see
§ 232.303), and toll certain time periods associated with tender offers (
see
§§ 240.13e-4(f)(13) and 240.14e-1(e) of this chapter).

# Note 2 to paragraph (
b

# ):
If the exemption relates to an exhibit only, the requirement to submit a confirming electronic copy shall be satisfied by refiling the exhibit in electronic format in an amendment to the filing to which it relates. The confirming copy tag should not be used. The amendment should note that the purpose of the amendment is to add an electronic copy of an exhibit previously filed in paper pursuant to a temporary hardship exemption.
(c) If an electronic filer experiences unanticipated technical difficulties preventing the timely preparation and submission of an Interactive Data File (§ 232.11) as required pursuant to § 232.405, the electronic filer still can timely satisfy the requirement to submit the Interactive Data File in the following manner:
(1) Substitute for the Interactive Data File exhibit a document that sets forth the following legend:
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TEMPORARY HARDSHIP EXEMPTION PROVIDED BY RULE 201 OF REGULATION S-T, THE DATE BY WHICH THE INTERACTIVE DATA FILE IS REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED HAS BEEN EXTENDED BY SIX BUSINESS DAYS; and
(2) Submit the required Interactive Data File no later than six business days after the Interactive Data File originally was required to be submitted.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# ):
As provided elsewhere in this chapter, electronic filers unable to submit the Interactive Data File under the circumstances specified by paragraph (c) of this section, must comply with the provisions of this section and cannot use Form 12b-25 (§ 249.322 of this chapter) as a notification of late filing. As also provided elsewhere in this chapter, failure to submit the Interactive Data File as required by the end of the six-business-day period specified by paragraph (c) of this section will result in ineligibility to use Forms S-3, S-8, and F-3 (§§ 239.13, 239.16b, and 239.33 of this chapter, respectively), constitute a failure to have filed all required reports for purposes of the current public information requirements of § 230.144(c)(1) of this chapter, and, pursuant to § 230.485(c)(3) of this chapter, suspend the ability to file post-effective amendments under § 230.485(b) of this chapter.
(d) If an electronic filer experiences unanticipated technical difficulties preventing the timely preparation and submission of an Asset Data File (as defined in § 232.11) and any asset related
document pursuant to Items 601(b)(102) and 601(b)(103) (§§ 229.601(b)(102) and 229.601(b)(103) of this chapter) the electronic filer still can timely satisfy the requirement to submit the Asset Data File or any asset related document in the following manner by:
(1) Posting on a Web site the Asset Data File and any asset related documents unrestricted as to access and free of charge;
(2) Substituting for the Asset Data File and any asset related documents in the required Form ABS-EE (§ 249.1401 of this chapter), a statement specifying the Web site address and that sets forth the following legend; and
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TEMPORARY HARDSHIP EXEMPTION PROVIDED BY RULE 201 OF REGULATION S-T, THE DATE BY WHICH THE ASSET DATA FILE IS REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED HAS BEEN EXTENDED BY SIX BUSINESS DAYS.
(3) Submitting the required Asset Data File and asset related documents no later than six business days after the Asset Data File originally was required to be submitted.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 36457, July 8, 1997; 68 FR 25799, May 13, 2003; 69 FR 22710, Apr. 26, 2004; 70 FR 43569, July 27, 2005; 71 FR 74708, Dec. 12, 2006; 73 FR 10616, Feb. 27, 2008; 73 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2008; 74 FR 6813, Feb. 10, 2009; 74 FR 15667, Apr. 7, 2009; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 79 FR 57332, Sept. 24, 2014; 80 FR 6652, Feb. 6, 2015; 83 FR 40874, Aug. 16, 2018; 87 FR 38964, June 30, 2022; 88 FR 76981, Nov. 7, 2023; 90 FR 7359, Jan. 21, 2025]
§ 232.202
Continuing hardship exemption.
(a) An electronic filer may apply in writing for a continuing hardship exemption if all or part of a filing, group of filings or submission, other than a Form ID (§§ 239.63, 249.446, 269.7, and 274.402 of this chapter), a Form D (§ 239.500 of this chapter), a notice or withdrawal of a notice filed with the Commission pursuant to § 240.3a71-3(d)(1)(vi) of this chapter (Rule 3a71-3(d)(1)(vi)) under the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
), or an Asset Data File (§ 232.11), otherwise to be filed or submitted in electronic format cannot be so filed or submitted, as applicable, without undue burden or expense. Such written application shall be made at least ten business days before the required due date of the filing(s) or submission(s) or the proposed filing or submission date, as appropriate, or within such shorter period as may be permitted. The written application shall contain the information set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The application shall not be deemed granted until the applicant is notified by the Commission or the staff.
(2) If the Commission, or the staff acting pursuant to delegated authority, denies the application for a continuing hardship exemption, the electronic filer shall file or submit the required document or Interactive Data File in electronic format, as applicable, on the required due date or the proposed filing or submission date, or such other date as may be permitted.
(3) If the Commission, or the staff acting pursuant to delegated authority, determines that the grant of the exemption is appropriate and consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors and so notifies the applicant, the electronic filer shall follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) The request for the continuing hardship exemption shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) The reason(s) that the necessary hardware and software is not available without unreasonable burden and expense;
(2) The burden and expense involved to employ alternative means to make the electronic submission; and/or
(3) The reasons for not submitting electronically the document, group of documents or Interactive Data File, as well as the justification for the requested time period.
(c) If the request is granted with respect to:
(1) Electronic filing of a document or group of documents, not electronic submission of an Interactive Data File, then the electronic filer shall submit the document or group of documents for which the continuing hardship exemption is granted in paper format on the required due date specified in the applicable form, rule or regulation, or the proposed filing date, as appropriate
and the following legend shall be placed in capital letters at the top of the cover page of the paper format document(s):
IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 202 OF REGULATION S-T, THIS (specify document) IS BEING FILED IN PAPER PURSUANT TO A CONTINUING HARDSHIP EXEMPTION.
(2) Electronic submission of an Interactive Data File, then the electronic filer shall substitute for the Interactive Data File exhibit a document that sets forth one of the following legends, as appropriate:
IN ACCORDANCE WITH A CONTINUING HARDSHIP EXEMPTION OBTAINED UNDER RULE 202 OF REGULATION S-T, THE DATE BY WHICH THE INTERACTIVE DATA FILE IS REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED HAS BEEN EXTENDED TO (specify date); or
IN ACCORDANCE WITH A CONTINUING HARDSHIP EXEMPTION OBTAINED UNDER RULE 202 OF REGULATION S-T, THE INTERACTIVE DATA FILE IS NOT REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED.
(d) If a continuing hardship exemption is granted for a limited period of time for:
(1) Electronic filing of a document or group of documents, not electronic submission of an Interactive Data File, then the grant may be conditioned upon the filing of the document or group of documents that is the subject of the exemption in electronic format upon the expiration of the period for which the exemption is granted. The electronic format version shall contain the following statement in capital letters at the top of the first page of the document:
THIS DOCUMENT IS A COPY OF THE (specify document) FILED ON (date) PURSUANT TO A RULE 202(d) CONTINUING HARDSHIP EXEMPTION.
(2) Electronic submission of an Interactive Data File, then the grant may be conditioned upon the electronic submission of the Interactive Data File that is the subject of the exemption upon the expiration of the period for which the exemption is granted.

# Note 1 to § 232.202:
Where a continuing hardship exemption is granted with respect to an exhibit only, the paper format exhibit shall be filed under cover of Form SE (§§ 239.64, 249.444, 269.8 and 274.403 of this chapter).

# Note 2 to § 232.202:
If the exemption relates to an exhibit only and a confirming electronic copy of the exhibit is required to be submitted, the exhibit should be refiled in electronic format in an amendment to the filing to which it relates. The confirming copy tag should not be used. The amendment should note that the purpose of the amendment is to add an electronic copy of an exhibit previously filed in paper pursuant to a continuing hardship exemption.

# Note 3 to § 232.202:
As provided elsewhere in this chapter, failure to submit a required confirming electronic copy of a paper filing made in reliance on a continuing hardship exemption granted pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section will result in ineligibility to use Forms S-3, S-8, and F-3 (
see,
§§ 239.13, 239.16b, and 239.33 of this chapter, respectively), restrict incorporation by reference into an electronic filing of the document submitted in paper (
see
§ 232.303), and toll certain time periods associated with tender offers (
see
§§ 240.13e-4(f)(13) and 240.14e-1(e) of this chapter).

# Note 4 to § 232.202:
As provided elsewhere in this chapter, failure to submit the Interactive Data File as required by § 232.405 by the end of the continuing hardship exemption if granted for a limited period of time, will result in ineligibility to use Forms S-3, S-8, and F-3 (§§ 239.13, 239.16b, and 239.33 of this chapter, respectively), constitute a failure to have filed all required reports for purposes of the current public information requirements of § 230.144(c)(1) of this chapter, and, pursuant to § 230.485(c)(3) of this chapter, suspend the ability to file post-effective amendments under § 230.485(b) of this chapter.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 36457, July 8, 1997; 69 FR 22710, Apr. 26, 2004; 73 FR 10616, Feb. 27, 2008; 74 FR 6813, Feb. 10, 2009; 74 FR 15667, Apr. 7, 2009; 74 FR 7774, Feb. 19, 2009; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 79 FR 57332, Sept. 24, 2014; 83 FR 40874, Aug. 16, 2018; 90 FR 7360, Jan. 21, 2025]

# Preparation of Electronic Submissions
§ 232.301
EDGAR Filer Manual.
Filers must prepare electronic filings in the manner prescribed by the EDGAR Filer Manual, promulgated by the Commission, which sets forth the technical formatting requirements for electronic submissions. The requirements for becoming an EDGAR Filer and updating company data are set forth in the EDGAR Filer Manual, Volume I: “General Information,” Version 42 (issued September 27, 2024). The requirements for filing on EDGAR are set
forth in the updated EDGAR Filer Manual, Volume II: “EDGAR Filing,” Version 71 (September 2024). All of these provisions have been incorporated by reference into the Code of Federal Regulations, which action was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You must comply with these requirements in order for documents to be timely received and accepted. The EDGAR Filer Manual is available for inspection at the Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). The EDGAR Filer Manual is available for website viewing and printing in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Operating conditions may limit access to the Commission's Public Reference Room. For information on the availability of the EDGAR Filer Manual at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The EDGAR Filer Manual may also be obtained from
https://www.sec.gov/edgar/filerinformation/current-edgar-filer-manual.
[89 FR 106223, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 232.302
Signatures.
(a) Required signatures to, or within, any electronic submission (including, without limitation, signatories within the certifications required by §§ 240.13a-14, 240.15d-14, and 270.30a-2 of this chapter) must be in typed form rather than manual format. Signatures in an HTML document that are not required may, but are not required to, be presented in an HTML graphic or image file within the electronic filing, in compliance with the formatting requirements of the EDGAR Filer Manual. When used in connection with an electronic filing, the term “signature” means a computer representation of any symbol or series of symbols comprising a name executed, adopted, or authorized as a signature. Signatures are not required in unofficial PDF copies submitted in accordance with § 232.104.
(b)(1) Each signatory to an electronic filing (including, without limitation, each signatory to the certifications required by §§ 240.13a-14, 240.15d-14 and 270.30a-2 of this chapter) shall manually or electronically sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing (“authentication document”). Such authentication document shall be executed before or at the time the electronic filing is made and shall be retained by the filer for a period of five years. An electronically signed authentication document pursuant to this paragraph (b)(1) must meet the requirements set forth in the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(2) Before a signatory may electronically sign an authentication document pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, such signatory must manually sign a document attesting that, when using electronic signatures for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the signatory agrees that the use of such electronic signature constitutes the legal equivalent of such individual's manual signature for purposes of authenticating the signature to any filing for which it is provided. An electronic filer must retain this document for as long as the signatory may use an electronic signature to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section and for a minimum period of seven years after the date of the most recent electronically signed authentication document.
(3) Upon request, an electronic filer shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this section. A manually signed document under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, including an initial electronic signature authentication document or a manually signed authentication document, may be retained and stored via electronic means.
(c) Where the Commission's rules require a registrant to furnish to a national securities exchange or national securities association paper copies of a document filed with the Commission in
electronic format, signatures to such paper copies may be in typed form.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67762, Dec. 30, 1994; 64 FR 27895, May 21, 1999; 65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000; 67 FR 57287, Sept. 9, 2002; 85 FR 78229, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 232.303
Incorporation by reference.
(a) The following documents shall not be incorporated by reference into an electronic filing:
(1) Any document filed in paper in violation of mandated electronic filing requirements;
(2) Any document filed in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption for which a required confirming electronic copy has not been submitted.
(3) For a registered investment company or a business development company, documents that have not been filed in electronic format, unless the document has been filed in paper under a hardship exemption (§ 232.201 or 232.202 of this chapter) and any required confirming copy has been submitted.
(b) If a filer incorporates by reference into an electronic filing any portion of an annual or quarterly report to security holders, it must also file the portion of the annual or quarterly report to security holders in electronic format as an exhibit to the filing, as required by Regulation S-K Item 601(b)(13) (§ 229.601(b)(13) of this chapter).If a foreign private issuer incorporates by reference into an electronic filing any portion of an annual or other report to security holders, or of a Form 6-K report (§ 249.306 of this chapter) filed or submitted in paper, it also must file the incorporated portion in electronic format as an exhibit to the filing. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to incorporation by reference by an investment company from an annual or quarterly report to security holders.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67762, Dec. 30, 1994; 62 FR 36457, July 8, 1997; 64 FR 27895, May 21, 1999; 65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000; 67 FR 36700, May 24, 2002; 84 FR 12722, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 232.304
Graphic, image, audio and video material.
(a) If a filer includes graphic, image, audio or video material in a document delivered to investors and others that is not reproduced in an electronic filing, the electronically filed version of that document must include a fair and accurate narrative description, tabular representation or transcript of the omitted material. Such descriptions, representations or transcripts may be included in the text of the electronic filing at the point where the graphic, image, audio or video material is presented in the delivered version, or they may be listed in an appendix to the electronic filing. Immaterial differences between the delivered and electronically filed versions, such as pagination, color, type size or style, or corporate logo need not be described.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
If the omitted graphic, image, audio or video material includes data, filers must include a tabular representation or other appropriate representation of that data in the electronically filed version of the document.
(b)(1) The graphic, image, audio and video material in the version of a document delivered to investors and others is deemed part of the electronic filing and subject to the civil liability and anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws.
(2) Narrative descriptions, tabular representations or transcripts of graphic, image, audio and video material included in an electronic filing or appendix thereto also are deemed part of the filing. However, to the extent such descriptions, representations or transcripts represent a good faith effort to fairly and accurately describe omitted graphic, image, audio or video material, they are not subject to the civil liability and anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws.
(c) An electronic filer must retain for a period of five years a copy of each publicly distributed document, in the format used, that contains graphic, image, audio or video material where such material is not included in the version filed with the Commission. The five-year period shall commence as of the filing date, or the date that appears on the document, whichever is later. Upon request, an electronic filer shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all of the documents contained in the file.
(d) For electronically filed ASCII documents, the performance graph that is to appear in registrant annual reports to security holders required by Exchange Act Rule 14a-3 (§ 240.14a-3 of this chapter) or Exchange Act Rule 14c-3 (§ 240.14c-3 of this chapter) to precede or accompany proxy statements or information statements relating to annual meetings of security holders at which directors are to be elected (or special meetings or written consents in lieu of such meetings), as required by Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201(e) of this chapter), and the line graph that is to appear in registrant annual reports to security holders, as required by paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of Item 27 of Form N-1A (§ 274.11A of this chapter), must be furnished to the Commission by presenting the data in tabular or chart form within the electronic ASCII document, in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section and the formatting requirements of the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, electronically filed HTML documents must present the following information in an HTML graphic or image file within the electronic submission in compliance with the formatting requirements of the EDGAR Filer Manual: The performance graph that is to appear in registrant annual reports to security holders required by Exchange Act Rule 14a-3 (§ 240.14a-3 of this chapter) or Exchange Act Rule 14c-3 (§ 240.14c-3 of this chapter) to precede or accompany registrant proxy statements or information statements relating to annual meetings of security holders at which directors are to be elected (or special meetings or written consents in lieu of such meetings), as required by Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.201(e) of this chapter); the line graph that is to appear in registrant annual reports to security holders, as required by paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of Item 27 of Form N-1A (§ 274.11A of this chapter); and any other graphic material required by rule or form to be filed with the Commission. Filers may, but are not required to, submit any other graphic material in a HTML document by presenting the data in an HTML graphic or image file within the electronic filing, in compliance with the formatting requirements of the EDGAR Filer Manual. However, filers may not present in a graphic or image file information such as text or tables that users must be able to search and/or download into spreadsheet form (e.g., financial statements); filers must present such material as text in an ASCII document or as text or an HTML table in an HTML document.
(f) Electronic filers may not include animated graphics in any EDGAR document.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67762, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 24655, May 15, 1996; 62 FR 36458, July 8, 1997; 64 FR 27895, May 21, 1999; 65 FR 24800, Apr. 27, 2000; 71 FR 53259, Sept. 8, 2006; 74 FR 4587, Jan. 26, 2009]
§ 232.305
Number of characters per line; tabular and columnar information.
(a) The narrative portion of a document shall not exceed 80 characters per line, including blank spaces, and shall not be presented in multi-column newspaper format. Non-narrative information (e.g., financial statements) may be presented in tabular or columnar format and may exceed 80 positions only if it is tagged as specified in the EDGAR Filer Manual. In no event shall information presented in tabular or columnar format exceed 132 positions wide.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to HTML documents, Interactive Data Files (§ 232.11) or Interactive Data Financial Reports (§ 232.11).
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 27896, May 21, 1999; 70 FR 6571, Feb. 8, 2005; 74 FR 6814, Feb. 10, 2009; 79 FR 57332, Sept. 24, 2014; 80 FR 14549, Mar. 19, 2015; 83 FR 40875, Aug 16, 2018]
§ 232.306
Foreign language documents and symbols.
(a) All electronic filings and submissions must be in the English language, except as otherwise provided by paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. If a filing or submission requires the inclusion of a document that is in a foreign language, a party must submit instead a fair and accurate English translation of the foreign language document in accordance with § 230.403(c) or § 240.12b-12(d) of this chapter, except as
otherwise provided by paragraph (c) of this section. Alternatively, if the foreign language document is an exhibit or attachment to a filing or submission subject to review by the Division of Corporation Finance, a party may provide a fair and accurate English summary of the foreign language document if permitted by § 230.403(c)(3) or § 240.12b-12(d)(3) of this chapter.
(b) When including an English summary or English translation of a foreign language document in an electronic filing or submission, a party may also submit a copy of the unabridged foreign language document with the filing in the electronic format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual. A filer must provide a copy of any foreign language document upon the request of Commission staff.
(c) A foreign government or its political subdivision must electronically file a fair and accurate English translation, if available, of its latest annual budget as presented to its legislative body, as Exhibit B to Form 18 (§ 249.218 of this chapter) or Exhibit (c) to Form 18-K (§ 249.318 of this chapter). If no English translation is available, a foreign government or political subdivision must submit a copy of the foreign language version of its latest annual budget with the filing in the electronic format required by the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(d) A Canadian issuer may file an HTML document, as defined in § 232.11 of this chapter, that contains text in both French and English if the issuer included the French text to comply with the requirements of the Canadian securities administrator or other Canadian authority, and the French text is in an exhibit to or part of:
(1) A registration statement on Form F-7, F-8, F-9, F-10, or F-80 (§§ 239.37, 239.38, 239.39, 239.40, and 239.41 of this chapter);
(2) A registration statement or annual report on Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter); or
(3) A Schedule 13E-4F (§ 240.13e-102 of this chapter), Schedule 14D-1F (§ 240.14d-102), or Schedule 14D-9F (§ 240.14d-103).
(e) Foreign currency denominations must be expressed in words or letters in the English language rather than representative symbols, except that HTML documents may include any representative foreign currency symbols that the EDGAR Filer Manual specifies. The limitations of this paragraph do not apply to unofficial PDF copies submitted in accordance with Rule 104 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.104).
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 21349, Apr. 21, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67762, Dec. 30, 1994; 64 FR 27896, May 21, 1999; 67 FR 36700, May 24, 2002; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 87 FR 35410, June 10, 2022]
§ 232.307
Bold face type.
(a) Provisions requiring presentation of information in bold face type shall be satisfied in an electronic format document by presenting such information in capital letters.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to HTML documents.
[62 FR 36458, July 8, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 27896, May 21, 1999]
§ 232.308
Type size and font; legibility.
Provisions relating to type size, font and other legibility requirements shall not apply to electronic format documents.
§ 232.309
Paper size; binding; sequential numbering; number of copies.
(a) Requirements as to paper size, binding, and sequential page numbering shall not apply to electronic format documents.
(b) An electronic format document, submitted in the manner prescribed by the EDGAR Filer Manual, shall satisfy any requirement that more than one copy of such document be filed with or provided to the Commission.
§ 232.310
Marking changed material.
Provisions requiring the marking of changed materials are satisfied in ASCII and HTML documents by inserting the tag
R
before and the tag
/R
following a paragraph containing changed material. HTML documents may be marked to show changed materials within paragraphs. Financial statements and notes thereto need not be marked for changed material.
[64 FR 27896, May 21, 1999]
§ 232.311
Documents submitted in paper under cover of Form SE.
Form SE (§§ 239.64, 249.444, 259.603, 269.8, and 274.403 of this chapter) shall be filed as a paper cover sheet to the following documents submitted to the Commission in paper:
(a) Exhibits filed in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption shall be filed under cover of Form SE. See Rules 201 and 202 of Regulation S-T (§§ 232.201 and 232.202).
(b) The Form SE shall be submitted in the following manner:
(1) If the subject of a temporary hardship exemption is an exhibit only, the filer must file the exhibit and a Form TH (§§ 239.65, 249.447, 269.1, and 274.404 of this chapter) under cover of Form SE (§§ 239.64, 249.444, 269.8, and 274.403 of this chapter) no later than one business day after the date the exhibit was to be filed electronically.
(2) An exhibit filed pursuant to a continuing hardship exemption may be filed up to six business days prior to, or on the date of filing of, the electronic format document to which it relates but shall not be filed after such filing date. If a paper document is submitted in this manner, requirements that the document be filed with, provided with or accompany the electronic filing shall be satisfied.
(c) Any requirements as to delivery or furnishing the information to persons other than the Commission shall not be affected by this section.
(d)-(f) [Reserved]
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67763, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 30402, June 14, 1996; 62 FR 36458, July 8, 1997; 65 FR 24801, Apr. 27, 2000; 67 FR 36700, May 24, 2002; 70 FR 1617, Jan. 7, 2005; 70 FR 43569, July 27, 2005; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011; 87 FR 35410, June 10, 2022]
§ 232.312
[Reserved]
§ 232.313
Identification of investment company type and series and/or class (or contract).
(a) Registered investment companies, business development companies, and offerings of registered non-variable annuities must indicate their investment company type, based on whether the registrant's last effective registration statement or amendment (other than a merger/proxy filing on Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter) was filed on Form N-1 (§§ 239.15 and 274.11 of this chapter), Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), Form N-3 (§§ 239.17A and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), Form N-5 (§§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter), Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter), Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter), Form S-3 (§ 239.13 of this chapter), or Form S-6 (§ 239.16 of this chapter) in those EDGAR submissions identified in the EDGAR Filer Manual.
(b) Registered investment companies or offerings of registered non-variable annuities whose last effective registration statement or amendment (other than a merger/proxy filing on Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter) was filed on Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-3 (§§ 239.17A and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter) must, under the procedures set forth in the EDGAR Filer Manual:
(1) Provide electronically, and keep current, information concerning their existing and new series and/or classes (or contracts, in the case of separate accounts), including series and/or class (contract) name and ticker symbol, if any, and be issued series and/or class (or contract) identification numbers;
(2) Deactivate for EDGAR purposes any series and/or class (or contract, in the case of separate accounts) that are no longer offered, go out of existence, or deregister following the last filing for that series and/or class (or contract, in the case of separate accounts), but the registrant must not deactivate the last remaining series unless the registrant deregisters; and
(3) For those EDGAR submissions identified in the EDGAR Filer Manual, include all series and/or class (or contract) identifiers of each series and/or class (or contract) on behalf of which the filing is made.
(c) Registered investment companies whose last effective registration statement or amendment (other than a merger/proxy filing on Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter)) was filed on
Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), Form N-3 (§§ 239.17A and 274.11b of this chapter), Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), or Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter) must provide electronically, as specified in the EDGAR Filer Manual, in the EDGAR submission identifying information concerning the acquiring fund and the target fund (and the series and/or classes (contracts), if any, of each if in existence at the time of the filing) in connection with merger filings on Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter), under § 230.425 of this chapter, and in compliance with Regulation 14A (§ 240.14a-1 of this chapter), Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter), and all other applicable rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act, as referenced in Investment Company Act Rule 20a-1 (§ 270.20a-1 of this chapter).
(d) Non-registrant third party filers making proxy filings with respect to investment companies must designate in the EDGAR submission the type of investment company (as referenced in paragraph (a) of this section) and include series and/or class (or contract) identifiers in designated EDGAR proxy submission types, in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual.
[70 FR 43569, July 27, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 60090, July 24, 2024]
§ 232.314
Accommodation for certain securitizers of asset-backed securities.
The information required in response to Rule 15Ga-1 (§ 240.15Ga-1 of this chapter) by a municipal securitizer will be deemed to satisfy the electronic submission requirements of Rule 101 (§ 232.101 of this chapter) under the following conditions:
(a) For purposes of this section, a municipal securitizer is a securitizer (as that term is defined in Section 15G(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) that is any State or Territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, any political subdivision of any State, Territory or the District of Columbia, or any public instrumentality of one or more States, Territories or the District of Columbia; and
(b) The information required by Rule 15Ga-1 is provided to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board in an electronic format available to the public on the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board's Internet Web site.
[76 FR 4511, Jan. 26, 2011]

# Interactive Data
§§ 232.401-232.404
[Reserved]
§ 232.405
Interactive Data File submissions.
This section applies to electronic filers that submit Interactive Data Files. Section 229.601(b)(101) of this chapter (Item 601(b)(101) of Regulation S-K), General Instruction F of § 249.311 (Form 11-K), §§ 240.15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A), 240.17a-5(d)(6)(i), 240.17a-5(k)(2), 240.17a-12(b)(6), 240.17a-12(k), 240.17a-12(l), 240.17a-12(m), 240.17h-2T(a)(2), and 240.18a-7(c)(6) of this chapter (Rules 15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A), 17a-5(d)(6)(i), 17a-5(k)(2), 17a-12(b)(6), 17a-12(k), 17a-12(l), 17a-12(m), 17h-2T(a)(2), and 18a-7(c)(6) under the Exchange Act), paragraph (101) of Part II—Information Not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of § 239.40 of this chapter (Form F-10), paragraph 101 of the Instructions as to Exhibits of § 249.220f of this chapter (Form 20-F), paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to § 249.240f of this chapter (Form 40-F), paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to § 249.306 of this chapter (Form 6-K), § 240.17ad-27(d) of this chapter (Rule 17ad-27(d) under the Exchange Act), Note D.5 of § 240.14a-101 of this chapter (Rule 14a-101 under the Exchange Act), Item 1 of § 240.14c-101 of this chapter (Rule 14c-101 under the Exchange Act), General Instruction L of § 240.14d-100 of this chapter (Rule 14d-100 under the Exchange Act), General Instruction I of § 249.333 of this chapter (Form F-SR), General Instruction C.3.(g) of §§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter (Form N-1A), General Instruction I of §§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter (Form N-2), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6), General Instruction 2.(l) of § 274.12 of this chapter (Form N-8B-2), General Instruction 5 of
§ 239.16 of this chapter (Form S-6), General Instruction C.4 of §§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter (Form N-CSR), General Instruction A of § 249.1 of this chapter (Form 1), General Instruction A of § 249b.200 of this chapter (Form CA-1), §§ 242.829 and 831 of this chapter (Rules 829 and 831 of Regulation SE), and the Registration Instructions to Form SBSEF (§ 249.1701 of this chapter) specify when electronic filers are required or permitted to submit an Interactive Data File (§ 232.11), as further described in note 1 to this section. This section imposes content, format and submission requirements for an Interactive Data File, but does not change the substantive content requirements for the financial and other disclosures in the Related Official Filing (§ 232.11).
(a)
Content, format, and submission requirements—General.
An Interactive Data File must:
(1) Comply with the content, format, and submission requirements of this section;
(2) Be submitted only by an electronic filer either required or permitted to submit an Interactive Data File as specified by § 229.601(b)(101) of this chapter (Item 601(b)(101) of Regulation S-K), General Instruction F of § 249.311 (Form 11-K), §§ 240.15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A), 240.17a-5(d)(6)(i), 240.17a-5(k)(2), 240.17a-12(b)(6), 240.17a-12(k), 240.17a-12(l), 240.17a-12(m), 240.17h-2T(a)(2), and 240.18a-7(c)(6) of this chapter (Rules 15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A), 17a-5(d)(6)(i), 17a-5(k)(2), 17a-12(b)(6), 17a-12(k), 17a-12(l), 17a-12(m), 17h-2T(a)(2), and 18a-7(c)(6) under the Exchange Act), paragraph (101) of Part II—Information Not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of § 239.40 of this chapter (Form F-10), paragraph 101 of the Instructions as to Exhibits of § 249.220f of this chapter (Form 20-F), paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to § 249.240f of this chapter (Form 40-F), paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to § 249.306 of this chapter (Form 6-K), § 240.17ad-27(d) of this chapter (Rule 17ad-27(d) under the Exchange Act), Note D.5 of § 240.14a-101 of this chapter (Rule 14a-101 under the Exchange Act), Item 1 of § 240.14c-101 of this chapter (Rule 14c-101 under the Exchange Act), General Instruction L of § 240.14d-100 of this chapter (Rule 14d-100 under the Exchange Act), General Instruction C.3.(g) of §§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter (Form N-1A), General Instruction I of §§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter (Form N-2), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6), General Instruction 2.(
l
) of § 274.12 of this chapter (Form N-8B-2), General Instruction 5 of § 239.16 of this chapter (Form S-6), General Instruction C.4 of §§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter (Form N-CSR), General Instruction A of § 249.1 of this chapter (Form 1), General Instruction A of § 249b.200 of this chapter (Form CA-1), §§ 242.829 and 242.831 of this chapter (Rules 829 and 831 of Regulation SE), and the Registration Instructions to Form SBSEF (§ 249.1701 of this chapter), as applicable;
(3) Be submitted using Inline XBRL:
(i) If the electronic filer is not a management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
), a separate account as defined in Section 2(a)(14) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(14)) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a registered non-variable annuity issuer as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.405), a business development company as defined in Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), a unit investment trust as defined in Section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-4), an entity subject to §§ 240.15fk-1, 240.17a-5, 240.17a-12, 240.17h-2T, or 240.18a-7 of this chapter (Rule 15fk-1, 17a-5, 17a-12, 17h-2T, or 18a-7 under the Exchange Act), an exchange as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1) (Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act), or a clearing agency as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A) (Section 3(a)(23)(A) of the Exchange Act), or subject to §§ 242.800 through 242.835 (Regulation SE), and is not within one of the categories specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, as partly embedded into a filing with the remainder simultaneously submitted as an exhibit to:
(A) A filing that contains the disclosure this section requires to be tagged; or
(B) An amendment to a filing that contains the disclosure this section requires to be tagged if the amendment is filed no more than 30 days after the earlier of the due date or filing date of the filing and the Interactive Data File is the first Interactive Data File the electronic filer submits; or
(ii) If the electronic filer is a management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
), a separate account (as defined in Section 2(a)(14) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(14)) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a registered non-variable annuity issuer as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.405), a business development company as defined in Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), a unit investment trust as defined in Section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-4), an entity subject to §§ 240.15fk-1, 240.17a-5, 240.17a-12, 240.17h-2T, or 240.18a-7 of this chapter (Rule 15fk-1, 17a-5, 17a-12, 17h-2T, or 18a-7 under the Exchange Act), an exchange as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1) (Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act), or a clearing agency as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A) (Section 3(a)(23)(A) of the Exchange Act), or is subject to §§ 242.800 through 242.835 (Regulation SE), and is not within one of the categories specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, as partly embedded into a filing with the remainder simultaneously submitted as an exhibit to a filing that contains the disclosure this section requires to be tagged; and
(4) Be submitted in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual and, as applicable, § 229.601(b)(101) of this chapter (Item 601(b)(101) of Regulation S-K), General Instruction F of § 249.311 of this chapter (Form 11-K), §§ 240.15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A), 240.17a-5(d)(6)(i), 240.17a-5(k)(2), 240.17a-12(b)(6), 240.17a-12(k), 240.17a-12(l), 240.17a-12(m), 240.17h-2T(a)(2), and 240.18a-7(c)(6) of this chapter (Rules 15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A), 17a-5(d)(6)(i), 17a-5(k)(2), 17a-12(b)(6), 17a-12(k), 17a-12(l), 17a-12(m), 17h-2T(a)(2), and 18a-7(c)(6) under the Exchange Act), paragraph (101) of Part II—Information Not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of § 239.40 of this chapter (Form F-10), § 240.13a-21 of this chapter (Rule 13a-21 under the Exchange Act), paragraph 101 of the Instructions as to Exhibits of § 249.220f of this chapter (Form 20-F), paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to § 249.240f of this chapter (Form 40-F), paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to § 249.306 of this chapter (Form 6-K), § 240.17ad-27(d) of this chapter (Rule 17ad-27(d) under the Exchange Act), Note D.5 of § 240.14a-101 of this chapter (Rule 14a-101 under the Exchange Act), Item 1 of § 240.14c-101 of this chapter (Rule 14c-101 under the Exchange Act), General Instruction L of § 240.14d-100 of this chapter (Rule 14d-100 under the Exchange Act), General Instruction I to § 249.333 of this chapter (Form F-SR), General Instruction C.3.(g) of §§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter (Form N-1A), General Instruction I of §§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter (Form N-2), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4), General Instruction C.3.(h) of §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6); General Instruction 2.(
l
) of § 274.12 of this chapter (Form N-8B-2); General Instruction 5 of § 239.16 of this chapter (Form S-6); General Instruction C.4 of §§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter (Form N-CSR); General Instruction A of § 249.1 of this chapter (Form 1); General Instruction A of § 249b.200 of this chapter (Form CA-1); §§ 242.829 and 831 of this chapter (Rules 829 and 831 of Regulation SE); or the Registration Instructions to Form SBSEF (§ 249.1701 of this chapter), as applicable.
(b)
Content—categories of information presented.
(1) If the electronic filer is not a management investment company registered under 15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
(the Investment Company Act of 1940), a separate account as defined in 15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(14) (Section 2(a)(14) of the Securities Act) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a registered non-variable annuity issuer as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.405), a business development
company as defined in Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), a unit investment trust as defined in Section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-4), an entity subject to §§ 240.15fk-1, 240.17a-5, 240.17a-12, 240.17h-2T, or 240.18a-7 of this chapter (Rule 15fk-1, 17a-5, 17a-12, 17h-2T, or 18a-7 under the Exchange Act), an exchange as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1) (Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act), or a clearing agency as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A) (Section 3(a)(23) of the Exchange Act), an Interactive Data File must consist of only a complete set of information for all periods required to be presented in the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing, no more and no less, from all of the following categories:
(i) The complete set of the electronic filer's financial statements (which includes the face of the financial statements and all footnotes);
(ii) As applicable, all schedules set forth in Article 6A of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.6A-01-210.6A-05) and Article 12 of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.12-01-210.12-29), and all schedules prepared by plans in accordance with the financial reporting requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
) and filed with the Commission on Form 11-K (§ 249.311); and
(iii) The disclosure set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

# Note to paragraph
(b)(1):
It is not permissible for the Interactive Data File to present only partial face financial statements, such as by excluding comparative financial information for prior periods.
(2) If the electronic filer is an open-end management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a separate account (as defined in Section 2(a)(14) of the Securities Act) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
), a registered non-variable annuity issuer as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.405), a unit investment trust as defined in Section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-4), or a clearing agency that provides a central matching service, an Interactive Data File must consist of only a complete set of information for all periods required to be presented in the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing, no more and no less, from the information set forth in:
(i) Items 2, 3, and 4 of §§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter (Form N-1A), as well as any information provided in response to Item 27A(b)-(h) of Form N-1A included in any report to shareholders filed on §§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter (Form N-CSR);
(ii) Items 2, 4, 5, 11, 18 and 19 of §§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter (Form N-3);
(iii) Items 2(b)(2), 2(d), 3, 4, 5, 6(a) (instruction), 6(d), 6(e), 7(e), 10, 17, 26(c), or 31A of §§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter (Form N-4);
(iv) Items 2, 4, 5, 10, 11, and 18 of §§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter (Form N-6);
(v) Any disclosure provided in response to Item 18 of §§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter (Form N-CSR), or
(vi) Item 11 of § 274.12 of this chapter (Form N-8B-2) pursuant to Instruction 2, including to the extent required by § 239.16 of this chapter (Form S-6); as applicable.
(3) If the electronic filer is either a closed-end management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
) or a business development company as defined in Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), an Interactive Data File must consist only of a complete set of information for all corresponding data in the Related Official Filing, no more and no less, as follows:
(i) For a business development company, for all periods required to be presented:
(A) The complete set of the electronic filer's financial statements (which includes the face of the financial statements and all footnotes);
(B) All schedules set forth in §§ 210.12-01 through 210.12-29 of this chapter (Article 12 of Regulation S-X) related to the electronic filer's financial statements; and
(ii) All of the information required on the cover page of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter);
(iii) As applicable, all of the information provided in response to Items 3.1,
4.3, 8.2.b, 8.2.d, 8.3.a, 8.3.b, 8.5.b, 8.5.c, 8.5.e, 10.1.a-d, 10.2.a-c, 10.2.e, 10.3, and 10.5 of Form N-2 in any registration statement or post-effective amendment thereto filed on Form N-2; or any form of prospectus filed pursuant to § 230.424 of this chapter (Rule 424 under the Securities Act); or, if a Registrant is filing a registration statement pursuant to General Instruction A.2 of Form N-2, any documents filed pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14, or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to the extent such information appears therein; and
(iv) As applicable, the disclosure set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(4) The disclosure provided under 17 CFR part 229 (Regulation S-K) and related provisions that is required to be tagged, including, as applicable:
(i) The information provided pursuant to § 229.402(v) of this chapter (Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K).
(ii) Any disclosure provided in response to: § 229.402(w) of this chapter (Item 402(w) of Regulation S-K); Item 6.F of § 249.220f of this chapter (Form 20-F); paragraph (19) of General Instruction B of § 249.240f of this chapter (Form 40-F); and Item 18 of §§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter (Form N-CSR).
(iii) Any disclosure provided in response to: § 229.402(x) of this chapter (Item 402(x) of Regulation S-K); § 229.408(a)(1) and (2) of this chapter (Item 408(a)(1) and (2) of Regulation S-K); § 229.408(b)(1) of this chapter (Item 408(b)(1) of Regulation S-K); and Item 16J(a) of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter).
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) Any disclosure provided in response to: § 229.106 of this chapter (Item 106 of Regulation S-K); Item 1.05 of § 249.308 of this chapter (Item 1.05 of Form 8-K); and Item 16K of § 249.220f of this chapter (Item 16K of Form 20-F).
(vi) The information required by §§ 229.1601 through 229.1610 of this chapter (subpart 1600 of Regulation S-K).
(5) If an electronic filer is an entity subject to §§ 240.15fk-1, 240.17a-5, 240.17a-12, 240.17h-2T, or 240.18a-7 of this chapter (Rule 15fk-1, 17a-5, 17a-12, 17h-2T, or 18a-7 under the Exchange Act), an exchange as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1) (Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act), a clearing agency as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A) (Section 3(a)(23)(A) of the Exchange Act), or is subject to §§ 242.800 through 242.835 (Regulation SE), an Interactive Data File must consist of only a complete set of information for all periods required to be presented in the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing, no more and no less, from all of the following categories, as applicable:
(i) For electronic filers of § 249.617 of this chapter (Part III of Form X-17A-5): the disclosures required by Items (a) through (y) of that Form.
(ii) The disclosure provided pursuant to Item 4 of § 249.328T of this chapter (Form 17-H).
(iii) The report provided pursuant to § 240.15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A) of this chapter (Rule 15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A) under the Exchange Act).
(iv) The exhibits specified by General Instruction A to § 249.1 of this chapter (Form 1).
(v) The disclosure provided pursuant to Schedule A and Exhibits C, F, H, J, K, L, M, O, R, and S to § 249b.200 of this chapter (Form CA-1).
(vi) The information provided pursuant to § 240.17ad-27 of this chapter (Rule 17ad-27 under the Exchange Act).
(vii) For electronic filers subject to Regulation SE, the content of documents required to be filed electronically under §§ 242.829 and 242.831 of this chapter (Rules 829 and 831 of Regulation SE); and the Registration Instructions to § 249.1701 of this chapter (Form SBSEF), as applicable.
(c)
Format—Generally.
An Interactive Data File must comply with the following requirements, except as modified by paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, as applicable, with respect to the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing consisting of footnotes to financial statements or financial statement schedules as set forth in Article 6A of Regulation S-X, Article 12 of Regulation S-X or the financial reporting requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
), as applicable:
(1)
Data elements and labels
—(i)
Element accuracy.
Each data element (
i.e.
, all text, line item names, monetary values, percentages, numbers, dates and other labels) contained in the Interactive Data File reflects the same
information in the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing;
(ii)
Element specificity.
No data element contained in the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing is changed, deleted, or summarized in the Interactive Data File;
(iii)
Standard and special labels and elements.
Each data element contained in the Interactive Data File is matched with an appropriate tag from the most recent version of the standard list of tags specified by the EDGAR Filer Manual. A tag is appropriate only when its standard definition, standard label and other attributes as and to the extent identified in the list of tags match the information to be tagged, except that:
(A)
Labels.
An electronic filer must create and use a new special label to modify a tag's existing standard label when that tag is an appropriate tag in all other respects (
i.e.
, in order to use a tag from the standard list of tags only its label needs to be changed); and
(B)
Elements.
An electronic filer must create and use a new special element if and only if an appropriate tag does not exist in the standard list of tags for reasons other than or in addition to an inappropriate standard label; and
(2)
Additional mark-up related content.
The Interactive Data File contains any additional mark-up related content (e.g., the eXtensible Business Reporting Language tags themselves, identification of the core XML documents used and other technology related content) not found in the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing that is necessary to comply with the EDGAR Filer Manual requirements.
(d)
Format—Footnotes—Generally.
The part of the Interactive Data File for which the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing consists of footnotes to financial statements must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, as modified by this paragraph (d). Footnotes to financial statements must be tagged as follows:
(1) Each complete footnote must be block-text tagged;
(2) Each significant accounting policy within the significant accounting policies footnote must be block-text tagged;
(3) Each table within each footnote must be block-text tagged; and
(4) Within each footnote,
(i) Each amount (
i.e.
, monetary value, percentage, and number) must be tagged separately; and
(ii) Each narrative disclosure may be tagged separately to the extent the electronic filer chooses.
(e) Format—Schedules—Generally.
The part of the Interactive Data File for which the corresponding data in the Related Official Filing consists of financial statement schedules as set forth in 17 CFR 210.6A-01 through 210.6A-05) (Article 6A of Regulation S-X), §§ 210.12-01 through 210.12-29 of this chapter (Article 12 of Regulation S-X), or the financial reporting requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
), as applicable, must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, as modified by this paragraph (e). Such financial statement schedules must be tagged as follows:
(1) Each complete financial statement schedule must be block-text tagged; and
(2) Within each financial statement schedule,
(i) Each amount (
i.e.
, monetary value, percentage and number) must be tagged separately; and
(ii) Each narrative disclosure may be tagged separately to the extent the electronic filer chooses.
(f)
Format—Phase-in for Inline XBRL submissions.
(1) The following electronic filers may choose to submit an Interactive Data File:
(i) In the manner specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section rather than as specified by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section: Any electronic filer that is not an open-end management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
) if it is within one of the following categories, provided, however, that an Interactive Data File first is required to be submitted in the manner specified by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section for a periodic report on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter) if the filer reports on Form 10-Q:
(A) A large accelerated filer (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter) that prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States and none of the financial statements for which an Interactive Data File is required is for a fiscal period that ends on or after June 15, 2019;
(B) An accelerated filer (§ 240.12b-2 of this chapter) that prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States and none of the financial statements for which an Interactive Data File is required is for a fiscal period that ends on or after June 15, 2020; and
(C) A filer not specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section that prepares its financial statements in accordance with either generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States or International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and none of the financial statements for which an Interactive Data File is required is for a fiscal period that ends on or after June 15, 2021.
(ii) In the manner specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section rather than as specified by paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section: Any electronic filer that is an open-end management investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
) that, together with other investment companies in the same “group of related investment companies,” as such term is defined in § 270.0-10 of this chapter, has assets of:
(A) $1 billion or more as of the end of the most recent fiscal year until it files an initial registration statement (or post-effective amendment that is an annual update to an effective registration statement) that becomes effective on or after September 17, 2020; and
(B) Less than $1 billion as of the end of the most recent fiscal year until it files an initial registration statement (or post-effective amendment that is an annual update to an effective registration statement) that becomes effective on or after September 17, 2021.
(2) The electronic filers specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section may submit the Interactive Data File solely as an exhibit to:
(i) A filing that contains the disclosure this section requires to be tagged; or
(ii) An amendment to a filing that contains the disclosure this section requires to be tagged if the amendment is filed no more than 30 days after the earlier of the due date or filing date of the filing and the Interactive Data File is the first Interactive Data File the electronic filer submits.
(3) The electronic filers specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section may submit the Interactive Data File solely as an exhibit to a filing that contains the disclosure this section requires to be tagged, up to 15 business days after the effective date of the registration statement or post-effective amendment that contains the related information, or the filing of a form of prospectus made pursuant to § 230.497(c) or (e) of this chapter (paragraph (c) or (e) of Rule 497).

# Note 1 to § 232.405:
Section 229.601(b)(101) of this chapter (Item 601(b)(101) of Regulation S-K) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted and the circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted, with respect to §§ 239.11 of this chapter (Form S-1), 239.13 of this chapter (Form S-3), 239.25 of this chapter (Form S-4), 239.18 of this chapter (Form S-11), 239.31 of this chapter (Form F-1), 239.33 of this chapter (Form F-3), 239.34 of this chapter (Form F-4), 249.310 of this chapter (Form 10-K), 249.308a of this chapter (Form 10-Q), and 249.308 of this chapter (Form 8-K). General Instruction F of § 249.311 of this chapter (Form 11-K) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted, and the circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted, with respect to Form 11-K. Paragraph (101) of Part II—Information not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of § 239.40 of this chapter (Form F-10) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted and the circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted, with respect to Form F-10. Paragraph 101 of the Instructions as to Exhibits of § 249.220f of this chapter (Form 20-F) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted and the circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted, with respect to Form 20-F. Paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to § 249.240f of this chapter (Form 40-F) and Paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to § 249.306 of this
chapter (Form 6-K) specify the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted and the circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted, with respect to §§ 249.240f (Form 40-F) and 249.306 (Form 6-K) of this chapter. Note D.5 of § 240.14a-101 of this chapter (Schedule 14A) and Item 1 of § 240.14c-101 of this chapter (Schedule 14C) specify the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted with respect to Schedules 14A and 14C. General Instruction L of § 240.14d-100 of this chapter (Schedule TO) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted with respect to Schedule TO. Section 240.13a-21 of this chapter (Rule 13a-21 under the Exchange Act) and General Instruction I to § 249.333 of this chapter (Form F-SR) specify the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted, with respect to Form F-SR. §§ 242.829 and 242.831 of this chapter (Rules 829 and 831 of Regulation SE) and the Registration Instructions to § 249.1701 of this chapter (Form SBSEF), as applicable, specify the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted with respect to filings made under Regulation SE. Item 601(b)(101) of Regulation S-K, paragraph (101) of Part II—Information not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of Form F-10, paragraph 101 of the Instructions as to Exhibits of Form 20-F, paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to Form 40-F, and paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to Form 6-K all prohibit submission of an Interactive Data File by an issuer that prepares its financial statements in accordance with 17 CFR 210.6-01 through 210.6-10 (Article 6 of Regulation S-X). For an issuer that is a management investment company or separate account registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a
et seq.
), a registered non-variable annuity issuer as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.405), a business development company as defined in Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), or a unit investment trust as defined in Section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-4), General Instruction C.3.(g) of Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), General Instruction I of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter), General Instruction 2.(l) of Form N-8B-2 (§ 274.12 of this chapter), General Instruction 5 of § 239.16 of this chapter (Form S-6), and General Instruction C.4 of Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter), as applicable, specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted. For entities subject to §§ 240.15fk-1, 240.17a-5, 240.17a-12, 240.17h-2T, or 240.18a-7 of this chapter (Rule 15fk-1, 17a-5, 17a-12, 17h-2T, or 18a-7 under the Exchange Act), §§ 240.15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A), 240.17a-5(d)(6)(i), 240.17a-5(k)(2), 240.17a-12(b)(6), 240.17a-12(k), 240.17a-12(l), 240.17a-12(m), 240.17h-2T(a)(2), and 240.18a-7(c)(6) of this chapter (Rules 15fk-1(c)(2)(ii)(A), 17a-5(d)(6)(i), 17a-5(k)(2), 17a-12(b)(6), 17a-12(k), 17a-12(l), 17a-12(m), 17h-2T(a)(2), and 18a-7(c)(6) under the Exchange Act), as applicable, specify the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted. For an exchange as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1) (Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act), General Instruction A of § 249.1 of this chapter (Form 1) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted. For a clearing agency as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A) (Section 3(a)(23)(A) of the Exchange Act), General Instruction A of § 249.200b of this chapter (Form CA-1) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted with respect to § 249.200b of this chapter (Form CA-1), and § 240.17ad-27(d) of this chapter (Rule 17ad-27(d) under the Exchange Act) specify the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted with respect to the reports required under § 249.200b of this chapter (Form CA-1) and § 240.17ad-27 of this chapter (Rule 17ad-27 under the Exchange Act).
[74 FR 6814, Feb. 10, 2009; 74 FR 15667, Apr. 7, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 7775, Feb. 19, 2009; 74 FR 21256, May 7, 2009; 76 FR 46617, Aug. 3, 2011; 83 FR 40875, Aug. 16, 2018; 85 FR 26099, May 1, 2020; 85 FR 39476, July 1, 2020; 85 FR 33357, June 1, 2020; 85 FR 45092, July 27, 2020; 86 FR 70043,70200, Dec. 9, 2021; 87 FR 22445, Apr. 15, 2022; 87 FR 35410, June 10, 2022; 87 FR 55196, Sept. 9, 2022; 87 FR 72847, Nov. 25, 2022; 87 FR 73138, Nov. 28, 2022; 87 FR 80429, Dec. 29, 2022; 88 FR 13951, Mar. 6, 2023; 88 FR 36057, June 1, 2023; 88 FR 51943, Aug. 4, 2023; 88 FR 70508, Oct. 11, 2023; 88 FR 87283, Dec. 15, 2023; 89 FR 24374, Apr. 8, 2024; 89 FR 14321, Feb. 26, 2024; 89 FR 60090, July 24, 2024; 90 FR 7360, Jan. 21, 2025]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 21914, Mar. 28, 2024, § 232.405 was amended, effective May 28, 2024. At 89 FR 25804, Apr. 12, 2024, the effective date was delayed indefinitely.
§ 232.406
Cover Page XBRL Data Tagging.
Electronic filers submitting Forms 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter), 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter), 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter), 20-F (§ 249.220f of this
chapter) or 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter) who are required to submit Interactive Data Files (§ 232.11) in Inline XBRL format in accordance with this Regulation S-T must tag in Inline XBRL electronic format, in the manner provided by the EDGAR Filer Manual, all of the information provided by the electronic filer that is required on the cover page of these forms.
[84 FR 12722, Apr. 2, 2019]
§ 232.407
Interactive data financial report filings.
Section 407 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.407) applies to electronic filers that file Interactive Data Financial Reports (§ 232.11) as required by Rule 13n-11(f)(5) (§ 240.13n-11(f)(5) of this chapter). Section 407 imposes content, format, and filing requirements for Interactive Data Financial Reports, but does not change the substantive content requirements for the financial and other disclosures in the Related Official Financial Report Filing (§ 232.11). Rule 13n-11(f)(5) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data Financial Report must be filed as an exhibit.
(a)
Content, format, and filing requirements—General.
Interactive Data Financial Reports must:
(1) Comply with the content, format, and filing requirements of this section;
(2) Be filed only by an electronic filer that is required to file an Interactive Data Financial Report pursuant to Rule 13n-11(f)(5) (§ 240.13n-11(f)(5) of this chapter) as an exhibit to a filing; and
(3) Be filed in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual and Rules 13n-11(f)(5) and (g) (§ 240.13n-11(f)(5) and (g) of this chapter).
(b)
Content—categories of information presented.
An Interactive Data Financial Report must consist of only a complete set of information for all periods required to be presented in the corresponding data in the Related Official Financial Report Filing, no more and no less, for the following categories, as applicable:
(1) The complete set of the electronic filer's financial statements (which includes the face of the financial statements and all footnotes); and
(2) All schedules set forth in Article 12 of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.12-01 through 210.12-29 of this chapter) related to the electronic filer's financial statements.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
It is not permissible for the Interactive Data Financial Report to present only partial face financial statements, such as by excluding comparative financial information for prior periods.
(c)
Format—Generally.
An Interactive Data Financial Report must comply with the following requirements, except as modified by paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, as applicable, with respect to the corresponding data in the Related Official Financial Report Filing consisting of footnotes to financial statements or financial statement schedules as set forth in Article 12 of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.12-01 through 210.12-29 of this chapter):
(1)
Data elements and labels
—(i)
Element accuracy.
Each data element (
i.e.,
all text, line item names, monetary values, percentages, numbers, dates and other labels) contained in the Interactive Data Financial Report reflects the same information in the corresponding data in the Related Official Financial Report Filing;
(ii)
Element specificity.
No data element contained in the corresponding data in the Related Official Financial Report Filing is changed, deleted or summarized in the Interactive Data Financial Report;
(iii)
Standard and special labels and elements.
Each data element contained in the Interactive Data Financial Report is matched with an appropriate tag from the most recent version of the standard list of tags specified by the EDGAR Filer Manual. A tag is appropriate only when its standard definition, standard label, and other attributes as and to the extent identified in the list of tags match the information to be tagged, except that:
(A)
Labels.
An electronic filer must create and use a new special label to modify a tag's existing standard label when that tag is an appropriate tag in all other respects (
i.e.
, in order to use a tag from the standard list of tags only its label needs to be changed); and
(B)
Elements.
An electronic filer must create and use a new special element if and only if an appropriate tag does not exist in the standard list of tags for
reasons other than or in addition to an inappropriate standard label; and
(2)
Additional mark-up related content.
The Interactive Data Financial Report contains any additional mark-up related content (e.g., the eXtensible Business Reporting Language tags themselves, identification of the core XML documents used and other technology-related content) not found in the corresponding data in the Related Official Financial Report Filing that is necessary to comply with the EDGAR Filer Manual requirements.
(d)
Format—Footnotes—Generally.
The part of the Interactive Data Financial Report for which the corresponding data in the Related Official Financial Report Filing consists of footnotes to financial statements must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, as modified by this paragraph (d). Each complete footnote must be block-text tagged.
(e)
Format—Schedules—Generally.
The part of the Interactive Data Financial Report for which the corresponding data in the Related Official Financial Report Filing consists of financial statement schedules as set forth in Article 12 of Regulation S-X (§§ 210.12-01 through 210.12-29 of this chapter) must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, as modified by this paragraph (e). Each complete schedule must be block-text tagged.
[80 FR 14549, Mar. 19, 2015]
§ 232.408
Filing fee exhibit interactive data.
The filing fee exhibit required by the following provisions must be submitted in Inline XBRL as provided by the EDGAR Filer Manual except to the extent the following provisions otherwise provide: § 229.601(b)(107) of this chapter (Item 601(b)(107) of Regulation S-K); paragraph (107) to Part II Information Not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter); § 230.424(g) and (i)(2) of this chapter (Rules 424(g) and (i)(2)); § 240.13e-1(a)(7) of this chapter (Rule 13e-1(a)(7)); Item 16(b) of Schedule 13E-3 (§ 240.13e-100 of this chapter); paragraph (4) under “Part II—Information Not Required To Be Sent to Shareholders” of Schedule 13E-4F (§ 240.13e-102 of this chapter); Item 25(b) of Schedule 14A (§ 240.14a-101 of this chapter); Item 12(b) of Schedule TO (§ 240.14d-100 of this chapter); paragraph (4) under “Part II—Information Not Required To Be Sent to Shareholders” of Schedule 14D-1F (§ 240.14d-102 of this chapter); Item 25.2.s of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter); and paragraph 18 of Item 16 of Form N-14 (§ 239.23 of this chapter).
[86 FR 70200, Dec. 9, 2021]

# EDGAR Functions
§ 232.501
Modular submissions and segmented filings.
An electronic filer may use the following procedures to submit information to the EDGAR system for subsequent inclusion in an electronic filing:
(a)
Modular submissions.
(1) One or more electronic format documents may be submitted for storage in the non-public EDGAR data storage area as a modular submission for subsequent inclusion in one or more electronic submissions.
(2) An electronic filer shall be permitted a maximum of ten modular submissions in the non-public EDGAR data storage area at any time, not to exceed a total of one megabyte of digital information. If an electronic filer attempts to submit a modular filing which would cause either of these limits to be exceeded, EDGAR will suspend the modular submission and notify the electronic filer by electronic mail. After six business days, the modular submission held in suspense will be deleted from the system.
(3) A modular submission may be corrected or amended only by resubmitting the entire modular submission.
(b)
Segmented filings.
(1) Segments of a document intended to become an electronic filing may be submitted to the non-public EDGAR data storage area for assembly as a segmented filing.
(2) Segments shall be submitted no more than six business days in advance of the anticipated filing date and are not limited in number or size. They may be submitted from several geographic locations by more than one filing entity. Segments may be included in only one electronic filing. Once
used, segments will be removed from the non-public EDGAR data storage area. The assembly of segments into a segmented filing shall be effected pursuant to the applicable provisions of the EDGAR Filer Manual. If segments are not prepared in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual, the filing will not be constructed. The filing date of a segmented filing shall be the date upon which the filing is assembled and satisfies the requirements of Rule 13(a) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.13(a)).
(3) Segments may be corrected or amended only by resubmitting the entire segment.
(c) A modular submission or segment shall not:
(1) be publicly available;
(2) Be deemed filed with the Commission for purposes of Securities Act section 11 (15 U.S.C. 77k), Exchange Act section 18 (15 U.S.C. 78r), Trust Indenture Act section 323 (15 U.S.C. 77www), or Investment Company Act section 34(b) (15 U.S.C. 80a-33(b)) prior to its inclusion in a filing; or
(3) Be deemed to constitute an official filing prior to its inclusion in a filing under the federal securities laws. Once a modular submission or segment has been included in an electronic filing, the liability and anti-fraud provisions of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act, and the Investment Company Act shall apply to the electronic filing.
[58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 21349, Apr. 21, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 24801, Apr. 27, 2000; 76 FR 71876, Nov. 21, 2011]

# Foreign Private Issuers and Foreign Governments
§§ 232.600-232.903
[Reserved]
Pt. 239

# PART 239—FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Sec.
239.0-1
Availability of forms.

# Subpart A—Forms for Registration Statements
239.4-239.10
[Reserved]
239.11
Form S-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933.
239.12
[Reserved]
239.13
Form S-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
239.14
Form N-2, for closed-end management investment companies registered on Form N-8A.
239.15
[Reserved]
239.15A
Form N-1A, registration statement of open-end management investment companies.
239.16
Form S-6, for unit investment trusts registered on Form N-8B-2.
239.16b
Form S-8, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities to be offered to employees pursuant to employee benefit plans.
239.17
[Reserved]
239.17a
Form N-3, registration statement for separate accounts organized as management investment companies.
239.17b
Form N-4, registration statement for separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts.
239.17c
Form N-6, registration statement for separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts that offer variable life insurance policies.
239.18
Form S-11, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain real estate companies.
239.19
[Reserved]
239.20
Form S-20, for standardized options.
239.23
Form N-14, for the registration of securities issued in business combination transactions by investment companies and business development companies.
239.24
Form N-5, form for registration of small business investment company under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940.
239.25
Form S-4, for the registration of securities issued in business combination transactions.
239.26-239.30
[Reserved]
239.31
Form F-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 for securities of certain foreign private issuers.
239.32
[Reserved]
239.33
Form F-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain foreign private issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
239.34
Form F-4, for registration of securities of foreign private issuers issued in certain business combination transactions.
239.35
[Reserved]
239.36
Form F-6, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of depositary shares evidenced by American Depositary Receipts.
239.37
Form F-7, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain Canadian issuers offered for cash upon the exercise of rights granted to existing securityholders.
239.38
Form F-8, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain Canadian issuers to be issued in exchange offers or a business combination.
239.39
[Reserved]
239.40
Form F-10, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain Canadian issuers.
239.41
Form F-80, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain Canadian issuers to be issued in exchange offers or a business combination.
239.42
Form F-X, for appointment of agent for service of process and undertaking for issuers registering securities on Form F-8, F-10, or F-80 (§§ 239.38, 239.39, 239.40, or 239.41), or registering securities or filing periodic reports on Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter), or by any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F, or 14D-9F (§§ 240.13e-102, 240.14d-102, or 240.14d-103 of this chapter), by any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7 (§ 239.37), F-8, F-10, or by a Canadian issuer qualifying an offering statement pursuant to Regulation A (§ 230.251
et seq.
of this chapter) on Form 1-A (§ 239.90), or by any non-U.S. issuer providing Form CB (§ 249.480 of this chapter) to the Commission in connection with a tender offer, rights offering or business combination.
239.43
Form F-N, appointment of agent for service of process by foreign banks and foreign insurance companies and certain of their holding companies and finance subsidiaries making public offerings of securities in the United States.
239.44
Form SF-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 for offerings of asset-backed securities.
239.45
Form SF-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 for offerings of asset-backed issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
239.46-239.62
[Reserved]
239.63
Form ID, application for EDGAR access.
239.64
Form SE, form for submission of paper format exhibits by electronic filers.
239.65
Form TH, Notification of reliance on temporary hardship exemption.
239.66
Form 24F-2, annual filing of securities sold pursuant to registration of certain investment company securities and registered non-variable annuities.

# Subpart B—Forms Pertaining to Exemptions
239.90
Form 1-A, offering statement under Regulation A.
239.91
Form 1-K.
239.92
Form 1-SA.
239.93
Form 1-U.
239.94
Form 1-Z.
239.95-239.143
[Reserved]
239.144
Form 144, for notice of proposed sale of securities pursuant to § 230.144 of this chapter.
239.145-239.199
[Reserved]
239.200
Form 1-E, notification under Regulation E.
239.201
Form 2-E, report of sales pursuant to Rule 609 of Regulation E.
239.202-239.300
[Reserved]
239.500
Form D, notice of sales of securities under Regulation D and section 4(a)(5) of the Securities Act of 1933.
239.701
[Reserved]
239.800
Form CB, report of sales of securities in connection with an exchange offer or a rights offering.
239.900
xxx

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 77c, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77sss, 78c, 78
l,
78m, 78n, 78
o
(d), 78
o
-7 note, 78u-5, 78w(a), 78
ll,
78mm, 80a-2(a), 80a-3, 80a-8, 80a-9, 80a-10, 80a-13, 80a-24, 80a-26, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37, and sec. 71003 and sec. 84001, Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1321, unless otherwise noted.
Sections 239.31, 239.32 and 239.33 are also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78
l,
78m, 78
o,
78w, 80a-8, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37 and 12 U.S.C. 241.
Sections 239.63 and 239.64 are also issued under 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 77sss(a), 78c(b), 78
l,
78m, 78n, 78o(d), 78w(a), 80a-8, 80a-24, 80a-29, and 80a-37.

# Source:
33 FR 18991, Dec. 20, 1968, unless otherwise noted.
§ 239.0-1
Availability of forms.
(a) This part identifies and describes the forms prescribed for use under the Securities Act of 1933.
(b) Any person may obtain a copy of any form prescribed for use in this part by written request to the Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Any persons may inspect the forms at this address and at the Commission's regional offices. (
See
§ 200.11 of this chapter for the addresses of the SEC regional offices.)
[46 FR 17757, Mar. 20, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 26820, June 22, 1982; 59 FR 5945, Feb. 9, 1994; 73 FR 970, Jan. 4, 2008]

# Subpart A—Forms for Registration Statements
§§ 239.4-239.10
[Reserved]
§ 239.11
Form S-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933.
This Form shall be used for the registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of all registrants for which no other form is authorized or prescribed, except that this Form shall not be used for securities of foreign governments or political subdivisions thereof or asset-backed securities, as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c).
[79 FR 57332, Sept. 24, 2014]
§ 239.12
[Reserved]
§ 239.13
Form S-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
This instruction sets forth registrant requirements and transaction requirements for the use of Form S-3. Any registrant which meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section (“Registrant Requirements”) may use this Form for the registration of securities under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) which are offered in any transaction specified in paragraph (b) of this section (“Transaction Requirement”) provided that the requirement applicable to the specified transaction are met. With respect to majority-owned subsidiaries, see paragraph (c) of this section. With respect to well-known seasoned issuers and majority-owned subsidiaries of well-known seasoned issuers, see paragraph (d) of this section.
(a)
Registrant requirements.
Registrants must meet the following conditions in order to use this Form for registration under the Securities Act of securities offered in the transactions specified in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The registrant is organized under the laws of the United States or any State or Territory or the District of Columbia and has its principal business operations in the United States or its territories.
(2) The registrant has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (
Exchange Act
) or a class of equity securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Exchange Act or is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Exchange Act;
(3) The registrant: (i) Has been subject to the requirements of section 12 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and has filed all the material required to be filed pursuant to sections 13, 14 or 15(d) for a period of at least twelve calendar months immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement on this Form; and
(ii) Has filed in a timely manner all reports required to be filed during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement, other than a report that is required solely pursuant to Item 1.01, 1.02, 1.05, 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 4.02(a), 6.01, 6.03, or 6.05 of Form 8-K (§ 249.308 of this chapter). If the registrant has used (during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement) § 240.12b-25(b) of this chapter with respect to a report or a portion of a report, that report or portion thereof has actually been filed within the time period prescribed by that section; and
(4) Neither the registrant nor any of its consolidated or unconsolidated subsidiaries have, since the end of the last fiscal year for which certified financial statements of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries were included in a report filed pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act: (i) Failed to pay any dividend or sinking fund installment on preferred stock; or (ii) defaulted (A) on any installment or installments on indebtedness for borrowed money, or (B) on any rental on one or more long term leases, which defaults in the aggregate are material to the financial position of the registrant and its consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(5) A foreign issuer, other than a foreign government, which satisfies all of the above provisions of these registrant
eligibility requirements except the provisions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section relating to organization and principal business shall be deemed to have met these registrant eligibility requirements provided that such foreign issuer files the same reports with the Commission under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as a domestic registrant pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(6) If the registrant is a successor registrant, it shall be deemed to have met conditions in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), and (5) of this section if:
(i) its predecessor and it, taken together, do so, provided that the succession was primarily for the purpose of changing the state of incorporation of the predecessor or forming a holding company and that the assets and liabilities of the successor at the time of succession were substantially the same as those of the predecessor; or
(ii) If all predecessors met the conditions at the time of succession and the registrant has continued to do so since the succession.
(7)
Electronic filings.
In addition to satisfying the foregoing conditions, a registrant subject to the electronic filing requirements of Rule 101 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.101 of this chapter) shall have:
(i) Filed with the Commission all required electronic filings, including electronic copies of documents submitted in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption as provided by Rule 201 or Rule 202(d) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201 or § 232.202(d) of this chapter); and
(ii) Submitted electronically to the Commission all Interactive Data Files required to be submitted pursuant to § 232.405 of this chapter during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement on this Form (or for such shorter period of time that the registrant was required to submit such files).
(b)
Transaction requirements.
Security offerings meeting any of the following conditions and made by registrants meeting the Registrant Requirements above may be registered on this Form:
(1)
Primary and secondary offerings by certain registrants.
Securities to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a registrant, or outstanding securities to be offered for cash for the account of any person other than the registrant, including securities acquired by standby underwriters in connection with the call or redemption by the registrant of warrants or a class of convertible securities;
provided
that the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant is $75 million or more.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(1):
The aggregate market value of the registrant's outstanding voting stock shall be computed by use of the price at which the stock was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of such stock, as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing. See the definition of affiliate in Securities Act Rule 405 (§ 230.405 of this chapter).
(2)
Primary offerings of non-convertible securities other than common equity.
Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a registrant, provided the registrant:
(i) Has issued (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the registration statement) at least $1 billion in non-convertible securities, other than common equity, in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Securities Act, over the prior three years; or
(ii) Has outstanding (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the registration statement) at least $750 million of non-convertible securities, other than common equity, issued in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Securities Act; or
(iii) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.405); or
(iv) Is a majority-owned operating partnership of a real estate investment trust that qualifies as a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.405); or
(v) Discloses in the registration statement that it has a reasonable belief that it would have been eligible to use this Form S-3 as of September 1, 2011 because it is registering a primary offering of non-convertible investment grade securities, discloses the basis for such belief, and files a final prospectus
for an offering pursuant to such registration statement on this Form S-3 on or before September 2, 2014.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(2).
For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, an insurance company, as defined in Section 2(a)(13) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(13), when using this Form S-3 to register offerings of securities subject to regulation under the insurance laws of any State or Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia (“insurance contracts”), may include purchase payments or premium payments for insurance contracts, including purchase payments or premium payments for variable insurance contracts (not including purchase payments or premium payments initially allocated to investment options that are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a)), issued in offerings registered under the Securities Act over the prior three years. For purposes of paragraph (b)(ii) of this section, an insurance company, as defined in Section 2(a)(13) of the Securities Act of 1933, when using this Form S-3 to register offerings of insurance contracts, may include the contract value, as of the measurement date, of any outstanding insurance contracts, including variable insurance contracts (not including the value allocated as of the measurement date to investment options that are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933), issued in offerings registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
(3)
Transactions involving secondary offerings.
Outstanding securities to be offered for the account of any person other than the issuer, including securities acquired by standby underwriters in connection with the call or redemption by the issuer of warrants or a class of convertible securities, if securities of the same class are listed and registered on a national securities exchange or are quoted on the automated quotation system of a national securities association. In addition, Form S-3 may be used by affiliates to register securities for resale pursuant to the conditions specified in General Instruction C to Form S-8 (§ 239.16b of this chapter).
(4)
Rights offerings, dividend or interest reinvestment plans, and conversions, warrants and options.
(i) Securities to be offered:
(A) Upon the exercise of outstanding rights granted by the issuer of the securities to be offered, if such rights are granted on a
pro rata
basis to all existing security holders of the class of securities to which the rights attach;
(B) Under a dividend or interest reinvestment plan; or
(C) Upon the conversion of outstanding convertible securities or the exercise of outstanding warrants or options issued by the issuer of the securities to be offered, or an affiliate of that issuer.
(ii) However, Form S-3 is available for registering these securities only if the issuer has sent, within the twelve calendar months immediately before the registration statement is filed, material containing the information required by § 240.14a-3(b) of this chapter under the Exchange Act to:
(A) All record holders of the rights;
(B) All participants in the plans; or
(C) All record holders of the convertible securities, warrants or options, respectively.
(iii) The issuer also must have provided, within the twelve calendar months immediately before the Form S-3 registration statement is filed, the information required by Items 401, 402 and 403 of Regulation S-K (§§ 229.401 through 229.403 of this chapter) to:
(A) Holders of rights exercisable for common stock;
(B) Holders of securities convertible into common stock; and
(C) Participants in plans that may invest in common stock, securities convertible into common stock, or warrants or options exercisable for common stock, respectively.
(5) This Form shall not be used to register offerings of asset-backed securities, as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c).
(c)
Majority-owned subsidiaries.
If a registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary, security offerings may be registered on this Form if:
(1) The registrant-subsidiary itself meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement;
(2) The parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the conditions of Transaction Requirement in paragraph (b)(2) of this section (Primary offerings of non-convertible investment grade securities) are met;
(3) The parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement, and provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X (§ 210.3-10 of this chapter), of the payment obligations on the securities being registered, and the securities being registered are non-convertible securities, other than common equity;
(4) The parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement, and the securities of the registrant-subsidiary being registered are full and unconditional guarantees, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on the parent's non-convertible securities, other than common equity, being registered; or
(5) The parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement, and the securities of the registrant-subsidiary being registered are guarantees of the payment obligations on the non-convertible securities, other than common equity, being registered by another majority-owned subsidiary of the parent, where the parent provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of such non-convertible securities.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ):
With regard to paragraphs (c)(3), (c)(4), and (c)(5) of this section, the guarantor is the issuer of a separate security consisting of the guarantee, which must be concurrently registered, but may be registered on the same registration statement as are the guaranteed non-convertible securities.
(d)
Automatic shelf offerings by well-known seasoned issuers.
Any registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 (§ 230.405 of this chapter) at the most recent eligibility determination date specified in paragraph (2) of that definition may use this Form for registration under the Securities Act of securities offerings, other than pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(vii) or (viii) (§ 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or (viii) of this chapter), as follows:
(1) The securities to be offered are:
(i) Any securities to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, or Rule 430B (§ 230.415, § 230.430A, or § 230.430B of this chapter) by:
(A) A registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(A) of the definition in Rule 405; or
(B) A registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer only by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of the definition in Rule 405 if the registrant also is eligible to register a primary offering of its securities pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, or Rule 430B by a registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer only by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of the definition in Rule 405 and does not fall within paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(iii) Securities of majority-owned subsidiaries of the parent registrant to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, or Rule 430B if the parent registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer and the securities of the majority-owned subsidiary being registered meet the following requirements:
(A) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that is a well-known seasoned issuer at the time it becomes a registrant, other than by virtue of paragraph (1)(ii) of the definition of well-known seasoned issuer in Rule 405;
(B) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that are non-convertible securities, other than common equity, and the parent registrant provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on the non-convertible securities;
(C) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that are a guarantee of:
(
1
) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of the parent registrant being registered;
(
2
) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of another majority-owned subsidiary being registered and the parent has provided a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on such non-convertible securities; or
(D) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that meet the conditions of the Transaction Requirement set forth
in paragraph (b)(2) of this section (Primary offerings of non-convertible investment grade securities).
(iv) Securities to be offered for the account of any person other than the issuer (“selling security holders”), provided that the registration statement and the prospectus are not required to separately identify the selling security holders or the securities to be sold by such persons until the filing of a prospectus, prospectus supplement, post-effective amendment to the registration statement, or periodic or current report under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference into the registration statement and prospectus, identifying the selling security holders and the amount of securities to be sold by each of them and, if included in a periodic or current report, a prospectus or prospectus supplement is filed, as required by Rule 430B, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(7) (§ 230.424(b)(7) of this chapter);
(2) The registrant pays the registration fee pursuant to Rule 456(b) and Rule 457(r) (§ 230.456(b) and § 230.457(r) of this chapter) or in accordance with Rule 456(a) (§ 230.456(a) of this chapter);
(3) If the registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary, it is required to file and has filed reports pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) and satisfies the requirements of this Form with regard to incorporation by reference or information about the majority-owned subsidiary is included in the registration statement (or a post-effective amendment to the registration statement);
(4) The registrant may register additional securities or classes of its or its majority-owned subsidiaries' securities on a post-effective amendment pursuant to Rule 413(b) (§ 230.413(b) of this chapter); and
(5) An automatic shelf registration statement and post-effective amendment will become effective immediately pursuant to Rule 462(e) and (f) (§ 230.462(e) and (f) of this chapter) upon filing. All filings made on or in connection with automatic shelf registration statements on this Form become public upon filing with the Commission.
(e)
Rights offerings by foreign private issuers.
A Foreign private issuer meeting eligibility requirements in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section may use Form S-3 to register securities to be offered upon the exercise of outstanding rights granted by the issuer of the securities to be offered if such rights are granted pro rata to all existing security holders of the class of securities to which the rights attach. In complying with Item 11 of this Form, the registrant shall describe those material changes that have occurred since the end of the latest fiscal year for which certified financial statements were included in the registrant's latest filing on Form 20-F (17 CFR 249.220f). In complying with Item 12 of this Form, the registrant shall incorporate by reference its latest filing on Form 20-F. The registrant also shall:
(1) Furnish with the prospectus (or have furnished previously) to all its shareholders resident in the United States, including those holding under American Depository Receipts or similar arrangements, a copy of its latest annual report to security holders, if in the English language. Such annual reports or prospectus shall contain the registrant's undertaking to send promptly to any such United States holder, upon written request, a copy of the registrant's latest filing on Form 20-F; or
(2) Furnish with the prospectus a copy of its latest filing on Form 20-F.
[47 FR 11453, Mar. 16, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 30055, July 1, 1991; 57 FR 48976, Oct. 29, 1992; 58 FR 14679, Mar. 18, 1993; 58 FR 16771, Mar. 31, 1993; 62 FR 26388, May 14, 1997; 64 FR 11116, Mar. 8, 1999; 69 FR 15618, Mar. 25, 2004; 70 FR 1618, Jan. 7, 2005; 70 FR 44820, Aug. 3, 2005; 74 FR 6816, Feb. 10, 2009; 79 FR 57332, Sept. 24, 2014; 83 FR 40877, Aug. 16, 2018; 88 FR 51943, Aug. 4, 2023; 90 FR 9688, Feb. 18, 2025]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form S-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.14
Form N-2 for closed end management investment companies registered on Form N-8A.
Form N-2 shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of all closed end management investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 on form N-8A (§ 274.10 of this chapter). This form is also to be used for
the registration statement of such companies pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (§ 274.11a-1 of this chapter). This form is not applicable for small business investment companies which register pursuant to §§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter.
[43 FR 39554, Sept. 5, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.15
[Reserved]
§ 239.15A
Form N-1A, registration statement of open-end management investment companies.
Form N-1A shall be used for the registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of open-end management investment companies other than separate accounts of insurance companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (on form N-1) (§ 270.11 of this chapter). This form is also to be used for the registration statement of such companies pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (§ 270.11A of this chapter). This form is not applicable for small business investment companies which register pursuant to §§ 239.24 and 274.5 of this chapter.
[48 FR 37940, Aug. 22, 1983]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-1A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.16
Form S-6, for unit investment trusts registered on Form N-8B-2.
This form may be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of any unit investment trust registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 on Form N-8B-2 (§ 274.12 of this chapter).

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form S-6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.16b
Form S-8, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities to be offered to employees pursuant to employee benefit plans.
(a) Any registrant that, immediately prior to the time of filing a registration statement on this form, is subject to the requirement to file reports pursuant to section 13 (15 U.S.C. 78m) or 15(d) (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; has filed all reports and other materials required to be filed by such requirements during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports and materials); is not a shell company (as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter) and has not been a shell company for at least 60 calendar days previously (subject to Instruction A.1.(a)(7) to Form S-8); and if it has been a shell company at any time previously, has filed current Form 10 information (as defined in Instruction A.1.(a)(6) to Form S-8) with the Commission at least 60 calendar days previously reflecting its status as an entity that is not a shell company (subject to Instruction A.1.(a)(7) to Form S-8), may use this form for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act) (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
) of the following securities:
(1) Securities of the registrant to be offered to its employees or employees of its subsidiaries or parents under any employee benefit plan. The form also is available for the exercise of employee benefit plan options by an employee's family member (as defined in General Instruction A.1(a)(5) to Form S-8) who has acquired the options from the employee through a gift or a domestic relations order.
(2) Interests in the above plans, if such interests constitute securities and are required to be registered under the Act. (
See
Release No. 33-6188 (February 1, 1980) and section 3(a)(2) of the Act.)
(b)
Electronic filings.
In addition to satisfying the foregoing conditions, a registrant subject to the electronic filing requirements of Rule 101 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.101 of this chapter) shall have:
(1) Filed with the Commission all required electronic filings, including
electronic copies of documents submitted in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption as provided by Rule 201 or Rule 202(d) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201 or § 232.202(d) of this chapter); and
(2) Submitted electronically to the Commission all Interactive Data Files required to be submitted pursuant to § 232.405 of this chapter during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement on this Form (or for such shorter period of time that the registrant was required to submit such files).
[55 FR 23925, June 13, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 14680, Mar. 18, 1993; 64 FR 11116, Mar. 8, 1999; 70 FR 42246, July 21, 2005; 74 FR 6817, Feb. 10, 2009; 83 FR 40877, Aug. 16, 2018]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form S-8, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.17
[Reserved]
§ 239.17a
Form N-3, registration statement for separate accounts organized as management investment companies.
Form N-3 shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of separate accounts that offer variable annuity contracts and which register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as management investment companies, and certain other separate accounts. This form is also to be used for the registration statement of such separate accounts pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (§ 274.11b of this chapter).
[50 FR 26160, June 25, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.17b
Form N-4, registration statement for separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts.
Form N-4 shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of separate accounts that offer variable annuity contracts and which register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as unit investment trusts, and certain other separate accounts. This form is also to be used for the registration statement of such separate accounts pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (§ 274.11c of this chapter).
[50 FR 26160, June 25, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.17c
Form N-6, registration statement for separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts that offer variable life insurance policies.
Form N-6 shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of separate accounts that offer variable life insurance policies and that register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as unit investment trusts. This form is also to be used for the registration statement of such separate accounts pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (§ 274.11d of this chapter).
[67 FR 19870, Apr. 23, 2002]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.18
Form S-11, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain real estate companies.
This form shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of (a) securities issued by real estate investment trusts, as defined in section 356 of the Internal Revenue Code, or (b) securities issued by other issuers whose business is primarily that of acquiring and holding for investment real estate or interests in real estate or interests in other issuers whose business is primarily that of acquiring and holding real estate or interests in real estate for investment. This form shall not be used, however, by any issuer which is an investment company registered or required to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In addition,
this form shall not be used for an offering of asset-backed securities, as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter.
[33 FR 18991, Dec. 20, 1968, as amended at 70 FR 1619, Jan. 7, 2005]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form S-11, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.19
[Reserved]
§ 239.20
Form S-20, for standardized options.
This form may be used to register standardized options under the Securities Act of 1933 where the issuer undertakes not to issue, clear, guarantee or accept an option registered on Form S-20 unless there is a definitive options disclosure document meeting the requirements of Rule 9b-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
[47 FR 41955, Sept. 23, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form S-20, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.23
Form N-14, for the registration of securities issued in business combination transactions by investment companies and business development companies.
This form shall be used by a registered investment company or a business development company as defined by section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities to be issued:
(a) In a transaction of the type specified in paragraph (a) of Rule 145 (§ 230.145 of this chapter);
(b) In a merger in which the applicable state law would not require the solicitation of the votes or consents of all the security holders of the company being acquired;
(c) In an exchange offer for securities of the issuer or another entity;
(d) In a public reoffering or resale of any such securities acquired pursuant to this registration statement;
(e) In more than one of the kinds of transactions listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) registered on one registration statement.
[50 FR 48383, Nov. 25, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-14, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.24
Form N-5, form for registration of small business investment company under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940.
This form shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities issued by any small business investment company which is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and which is licensed under the Small Business Investment Company Act of 1958 or which has received the preliminary approval of the Small Business Administration and has been notified by the Administration that it may submit a license application. This form may also be used for the registration statement of such company pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. The initial registration of such company on this form will be deemed to be filed under both the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940 unless it is indicated that the filing is made only for the purpose of one of such acts. (Same as § 274.5 of this chapter.)

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form N-5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.25
Form S-4, for the registration of securities issued in business combination transactions.
This form may be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities to be issued (a) in a transaction of the type specified in paragraph (a) of Rule 145 (§ 230.145 of this chapter); (b) in a merger in which the applicable state law would not require the solicitation of the votes or consents of all of the security holders of the company being acquired; (c) in an exchange offer for securities of the issuer or another entity; (d) in a public
reoffering or resale of any such securities acquired pursuant to this registration statement; or (e) in more than one of the kinds of transactions listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) registered on one registration statement.
[50 FR 19001, May 6, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form S-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 239.26-239.30
[Reserved]
§ 239.31
Form F-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 for securities of certain foreign private issuers.
(a) Form F-1 shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) of securities of all foreign private issuers, as defined in rule 405 (§ 230.405 of this chapter) for which no other form is authorized or prescribed. In addition, this form shall not be used for an offering of asset-backed securities, as defined in § 229.1101 of this chapter.
(b) If a registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary, which does not itself meet the conditions of these eligibility requirements, it shall nevertheless be deemed to have met such conditions if its parent meets the conditions and if the parent fully guarantees the securities being registered as to principal and interest. In such an instance the parent-guarantor is the issuer of a separate security consisting of the guarantee which must be concurrently registered but may be registered on the same registration statement as are the guaranteed securities. Both the parent-guarantor and the subsidiary shall each disclose the information required by this Form as if each were the only registrant except that if the subsidiary will not be eligible to file annual reports on the form described in § 249.229f (Form 20-F) of this chapter after the effective date of the registration statement, then it shall disclose the information specified in the form described in § 239.11 (Form S-1) of this chapter. The requirements of § 210.3-10 (Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X) of this chapter are applicable to financial statements for a subsidiary of a parent company that issues securities guaranteed by the parent company.
[47 FR 54771, Dec. 6, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 30055, 30056, July 1, 1991; 70 FR 1619, Jan. 7, 2005]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.32
[Reserved]
§ 239.33
Form F-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain foreign private issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
This instruction set forth registrant requirements and transaction requirements for the use of Form F-3. Any foreign private issuer, as defined in Rule 405 (§ 230.405 of this chapter), which meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section (the “Registrant Requirements”) may use this Form for the registration of securities under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) which are offered in any transaction specified in paragraph (b) of this section (the “Transaction Requirements”), provided that the requirements applicable to the specified transaction are met. With respect to majority-owned subsidiaries, see paragraph (a)(5) of this section. With respect to well-known seasoned issuers and majority-owned subsidiaries of well-known seasoned issuers, see paragraph (c) of this section.
(a)
Registrant requirements.
Except as set forth in this paragraph (a), all registrants must meet the following conditions in order to use this Form F-3 for registration under the Securities Act of securities offered in the transactions specified in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The registrant has a class of securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) or has a class of equity securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Exchange Act or is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and has filed at least one annual report on Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter) or, in the case of registrants described
in General Instruction A(2) of Form 40-F, on Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter) under the Exchange Act.
(2) The registrant:
(i) Has been subject to the requirements of section 12 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and has filed all the material required to be filed pursuant to sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act for a period of at least twelve calendar months immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement on this form; and
(ii) Has filed in a timely manner all reports required to be filed during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement and, if the registrant has used (during those twelve calendar months and that portion of a month) § 240.12b-25(b) of this chapter with respect to a report or a portion of a report, that report or portion thereof has actually been filed within the time period prescribed by § 240.12b-25(b) of this Chapter.
(3) Neither the registrant nor any of its consolidated or unconsolidated subsidiaries have, since the end of their last fiscal year for which certified financial statements of the registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries were included in a report filed pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act: (i) Failed to pay any dividend or sinking fund installment on preferred stock; or (ii) defaulted (A) on any installment or installments on indebtedness for borrowed money, or (B) on any rental on one or more long term leases, which defaults in the aggregate are material to the financial position of the registrant and its consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(4) If the registrant is a successor registrant, it shall be deemed to have met conditions 1, 2, 3 and 4 above if: (i) Its predecessor and it, taken together, do so, provided that the succession was primarily for the purpose of changing the state or other jurisdiction of incorporation of the predecessor or forming a holding company and that the assets and liabilities of the successor at the time of succession were substantially the same as those of the predecessor; or (ii) all predecessors met the conditions at the time of succession and the registrant has continued to do so since the succession.
(5)
Majority-owned subsidiaries.
If a registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary, security offerings may be registered on this form if:
(i) The registrant-subsidiary itself meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement;
(ii) The parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the conditions of the Transaction Requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section (Offerings of Certain Debt or Preferred Securities) are met;
(iii) The parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement, and provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X (§ 210.33-10 of this chapter), of the payment obligation on the securities being registered, and the securities being registered are non-convertible securities, other than common equity;
(iv) The parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement, and the securities of the registrant-subsidiary being registered are full and unconditional guarantees, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on the parent's non-convertible securities, other than common equity, being registered; or
(v) The parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the Registrant Requirements and the applicable Transaction Requirement, and the securities of the registrant-subsidiary being registered are guarantees of the payment obligations on the non-convertible securities, other than common equity, being registered by another majority-owned subsidiary of the parent, where the parent provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of such non-convertible securities.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(5):
In the situations described in paragraphs (a)(5)(iii) through (v) of this section, the parent or majority-owned subsidiary guarantor is the issuer of a separate security consisting of the guarantee, which must be concurrently
registered, but may be registered on the same registration statement as are the guaranteed non-convertible securities. Both the parent and majority-owned subsidiary shall each disclose the information required by this Form as if each were the only registrant except that if the majority-owned subsidiary will not be eligible to file annual reports on the forms described in § 249.220f (Form 20-F) or § 249.240f (Form 40-F) of this chapter after the effective date of the registration statement, then it shall disclose the information specified in the form described in § 239.13 (Form S-3) of this chapter. The requirements of § 210.3-10 (Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X) of this chapter are applicable to financial statements of a subsidiary of a parent company that issues securities guaranteed by the parent company or guarantees securities issued by the parent company.
(6)
Electronic filings.
In addition to satisfying the foregoing conditions, a registrant subject to the electronic filing requirements of Rule 101 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.101 of this chapter) shall have:
(i) Filed with the Commission all required electronic filings, including electronic copies of documents submitted in paper pursuant to a hardship exemption as provided by Rule 201 or Rule 202(d) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201 or § 232.202(d) of this chapter); and
(ii) Submitted electronically to the Commission all Interactive Data Files required to be submitted pursuant to § 232.405 of this chapter during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement on this Form (or for such shorter period of time that the registrant was required to submit such files).
(b)
Transaction requirements.
Security offerings meeting any of the following conditions and made by registrants meeting the Registrant Requirements above may be registered on this Form:
(1)
Primary offerings by certain registrants.
Securities to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a registrant,
provided
that the aggregate market value worldwide of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant is the equivalent of $75 million or more. In the case of securities registered pursuant to this paragraph, the financial statements included in this registration statement must comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter).
Instruction to paragraph (b)(1):
The aggregate market value of the registrant's outstanding voting stock shall be computed by use of the price at which the stock was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of such stock, in the principal market for such stock as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing.
See
the definition of “affiliate” in Securities Act Rule 405 (§ 230.405 of this chapter).
(2)
Primary offerings of non-convertible securities other than common equity.
Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a registrant, provided the registrant:
(i) Has issued (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the registration statement) at least $1 billion in non-convertible securities, other than common equity, in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Securities Act, over the prior three years; or
(ii) Has outstanding (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the registration statement) at least $750 million of non-convertible securities, other than common equity, issued in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a); or
(iii) Is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.405); or
(iv) Is a majority-owned operating partnership of a real estate investment trust that qualifies as a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.405); or
(v) Discloses in the registration statement that it has a reasonable belief that it would have been eligible to use Form F-3 as of September 1, 2011 because it is registering a primary offering of non-convertible investment grade securities, discloses the basis for such belief, and files a final prospectus for an offering pursuant to such registration statement on Form F-3 on or before September 2, 2014.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(2).
For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, an insurance company, as defined in Section 2(a)(13) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(13)), when using this Form F-3 to register offerings of securities subject to regulation under the insurance laws of any State or Territory of the United States or
the District of Columbia (“insurance contracts”), may include purchase payments or premium payments for insurance contracts, including purchase payments or premium payments for variable insurance contracts (not including purchase payments or premium payments initially allocated to investment options that are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a)), issued in offerings registered under the Securities Act of 1933 over the prior three years. For purposes of paragraph (b)(ii) of this section, an insurance company, as defined in Section 2(a)(13) of the Securities Act of 1933, when using this Form F-3 to register offerings of insurance contracts, may include the contract value, as of the measurement date, of any outstanding insurance contracts, including variable insurance contracts (not including the value allocated as of the measurement date to investment options that are not registered under the Securities Act of 1933), issued in offerings registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
(3)
Transactions involving secondary offerings.
Outstanding securities to be offered for the account of any person other than the issuer, including securities acquired by standby underwriters in connection with the call or redemption by the issuer of warrants or a class of convertible securities. In the case of such securities, the financial statements included in this registration statement may comply with Item 17 or 18 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter). In addition, Form F-3 (§ 239.33) may be used by affiliates to register securities for resale pursuant to the conditions specified in General Instruction C to Form S-8 (§ 239.16b). In the case of such securities, the financial statements included in this registration statement must comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter).
(4)
Rights offerings, dividend or interest reinvestment plans, and conversions or warrants.
Securities to be offered:
(i) Upon the exercise of outstanding rights granted by the issuer of the securities to be offered, if such rights are granted pro rata to all existing security holders of the class of securities to which the rights attach; or
(ii) Pursuant to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan; or
(iii) Upon the conversion of outstanding convertible securities or upon the exercise of outstanding transferable warrants issued by the issuer of the securities to be offered, or by an affiliate of such issuer. In the case of securities registered pursuant to this paragraph, the financial statements included in this registration statement may comply with Item 17 or 18 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter). The registration of securities to be offered or sold in a standby underwriting in the United States or similar arrangement is not permitted pursuant to this paragraph. See paragraphs (b) (1), (2) and (3) of this section.
(c)
Automatic shelf offerings by well-known seasoned issuers.
Any registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 (§ 230.405 of this chapter) at the most recent eligibility determination date specified in paragraph (2) of such definition may use this Form for registration under the Securities Act of securities offerings, other then pursuant to Rule 415(a)(1)(vii) or (viii) (§ 230.415(a)(1)(vii) or (viii) of this chapter), as follows:
(1) The securities to be offered are:
(i) Any securities to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, or Rule 430B (§ 230.415, § 230.430A, or § 230.430B of this chapter) by:
(A) A registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(A) of the definition in rule 405; or
(B) A registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer only by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of the definition in Rule 405 if the registrant also is eligible to register a primary offering of its securities pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(ii) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, or Rule 430B by a registrant that is a well-known seasoned issuer only by reason of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of the definition in Rule 405 and does not fall within paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(iii) Securities of majority-owned subsidiaries of the parent registrant to be offered pursuant to Rule 415, Rule 430A, or Rule 430B if the parent registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer and the securities of the majority-owned subsidiary being registered meet the following requirements:
(A) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that is a well-known seasoned issuer at the time it becomes a registrant, other than by virtue of
paragraph (1)(ii) of the definition of well-known seasoned issuer in Rule 405;
(B) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that are non-convertible securities, other than common equity, and the parent registrant provides a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on the non-convertible securities;
(C) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that are a guarantee of:
(
1
) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of the parent registrant being registered;
(
2
) Non-convertible securities, other than common equity, of another majority-owned subsidiary being registered and the parent registrant has provided a full and unconditional guarantee, as defined in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, of the payment obligations on such non-convertible securities; or
(D) Securities of a majority-owned subsidiary that meet the conditions of the Transaction Requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section (Primary offerings of non-convertible investment grade securities).
(iv) Securities to be offered for the account of any person other than the issuer (“selling security holders”), provided that the registration statement and the prospectus are not required to separately identify the selling security holders or the securities to be sold by such persons until the filing of a prospectus, prospectus supplement, post-effective amendment to the registration statement, or report under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference into the registration statement and prospectus, identifying the selling security holders and the amount of securities to be sold by each of them and, if included in a report under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference, a prospectus or prospectus supplement is filed, as required by Rule 430B, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(7) (§ 230.424(b)(7) of this chapter).
(2) The registrant pays the registration fee pursuant to Rules 456(b) and 457(r) (§ 230.456(b) and § 230.457(r) of this chapter) or in accordance with Rule 456(a) (§ 230.456(a) of this chapter);
(3) If the registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary, it is required to file and has filed reports pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) and satisfies the requirements of this Form with regard to incorporation by reference or information about the majority-owned subsidiary is included in the registration statement (or a post-effective amendment to the registration statement);
(4) The registrant may register additional securities or classes of its or its subsidiaries' securities on a post-effective amendment pursuant to Rule 413(b) (§ 230.413(b) of this chapter); and
(5) An automatic shelf registration statement and post-effective amendment will become effective immediately pursuant to Rule 462(e) and (f) (§ 230.462(e) and (f) of this chapter) upon filing. All filings made on or in connection with automatic shelf registration statements on this Form become public upon filing with the Commission.
[47 FR 54776, Dec. 6, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 30055, 30057, July 1, 1991; 58 FR 14681, Mar. 18, 1993; 59 FR 21652, Apr. 26, 1994; 62 FR 26388, May 14, 1997; 70 FR 1620, Jan. 7, 2005; 70 FR 44825, Aug. 3, 2005; 74 FR 6817, Feb. 10, 2009; 83 FR 40877, Aug. 16, 2018]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.34
Form F-4, for registration of securities of foreign private issuers issued in certain business combination transactions.
This form may be used by any foreign private issuer, as defined in rule 405 (§ 230.405 of this chapter), for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) of securities to be issued:
(a) In a transaction of the type specified in paragraph (a) of rule 145 (§ 230.145 of this chapter);
(b) In a merger in which the applicable law would not require the solicitation of the votes or consents of all of the securityholders of the company being acquired;
(c) In an exchange offer for securities of the issuer or another entity;
(d) In a public reoffering or resale of any such securities acquired pursuant to this registration statement; or
(e) In more than one of the kinds of transactions listed in paragraphs (a)
through (d) registered on one registration statement.
[56 FR 30058, July 1, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.35
[Reserved]
§ 239.36
Form F-6, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of depositary shares evidenced by American Depositary Receipts.
Form F-6 may be used for the registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the
Securities Act
) of Depositary shares evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (
ADRs
) issued by a depositary against the deposit of the securities of a foreign issuer (regardless of the physical location of the certificates) if the following conditions are met:
(a) The holder of the ADRs is entitled to withdraw the deposited securities at any time subject only to (1) temporary delays caused by closing transfer books of the depositary or the issuer of the deposited securities or the deposit of shares in connection with voting at a shareholders' meeting, or the payment of dividends, (2) the payment of fees, taxes, and similar charges, and (3) compliance with any laws or governmental regulations relating to ADRs or to the withdrawal of deposited securities;
(b) The deposited securities are offered or sold in transactions registered under the Securities Act or in transactions that would be exempt therefrom if made in the United States; and
(c) As of the filing date of this registration statement, the issuer of the deposited securities is reporting pursuant to the periodic reporting requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the deposited securities are exempt therefrom by Rule 12g3-2(b) (§ 240.12g3-2(b) of this chapter) unless the issuer of the deposited securities concurrently files a registration statement on another form for the deposited securities.
[48 FR 12348, Mar. 24, 1983]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.37
Form F-7, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain Canadian issuers offered for cash upon the exercise of rights granted to existing securityholders.
(a) Form F-7 may be used for the registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) of the registrant's securities offered for cash upon the exercise of rights to purchase or subscribe for such securities that are granted to its existing securityholders in proportion to the number of securities held by them as of the record date for the rights offer.
(b) Form F-7 is available to any registrant that:
(1) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory;
(2) Is a foreign private issuer; and
(3) Has had a class of its securities listed on The Montreal Exchange, The Toronto Stock Exchange or the Senior Board of the Vancouver Stock Exchange for the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada for a period of at least 36 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, and is currently in compliance with obligations arising from such listing and reporting.
Instruction:
For purposes of this Form, “foreign private issuer” shall be construed in accordance with Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
(c) If the registrant is a successor registrant subsisting after a statutory amalgamation, merger, arrangement or other reorganization requiring the vote of shareholders of the participating companies (a “business combination”), the registrant shall be deemed to meet the 36-month reporting requirement and the 12-month listing requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section if:
(1) The time the successor registrant has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory
authority in Canada, when added separately to the time each predecessor had been subject to such requirements at the time of the business combination, in each case equals at least 36 calendar months,
provided, however,
that any predecessor need not be considered for purposes of the reporting history calculation if the reporting histories of predecessors whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of such participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years immediately prior to the business combination, when combined with the reporting history of the successor registrant in each case satisfy such 36-month reporting requirement;
(2) The time the successor registrant has been subject to the listing requirements of the specified exchanges, when added separately to the time each predecessor had been subject to such requirements at the time of the business combination, in each case equals at least 12 calendar months,
provided, however,
that any predecessor need not be considered for purposes of the listing history calculation if the listing histories of predecessors whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of such participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years immediately prior to the business combination, when combined with the listing history of the successor registrant in each case satisfy such 12-month listing requirement; and
(3) The successor registrant has been subject to such continuous disclosure requirements and listing requirements since the business combination, and is currently in compliance with its obligations thereunder.
(d) The rights in connection with the transaction granted to securityholders that are U.S. holders shall be granted upon terms and conditions not less favorable than those extended to any other holder of the same class of securities. The securities offered or sold upon exercise of rights granted to U.S. holders may not be registered on this Form if such rights are transferable other than in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Instruction:
For purposes of this Form, the term “U.S. holder” shall mean any person whose address appears on the records of the registrant, any voting trustee, any depositary, any share transfer agent or any person acting on behalf of the registrant as being located in the United States.
(e) This Form shall not be used if the registrant is an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(f) Any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to the securities being registered shall file a Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) with the Commission at the time of filing this Form.
[56 FR 30060, July 1, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-7, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.38
Form F-8, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain Canadian issuers to be issued in exchange offers or a business combination.
(a) Form F-8 may be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) of securities to be issued in an exchange offer or in connection with a statutory amalgamation, merger, arrangement or other reorganization requiring the vote of shareholders of the participating companies (a “business combination”). Securities may be registered on this Form whether they constitute the sole consideration for such exchange offer or business combination, or are offered in conjunction with cash.
(b) This Form shall not be used for registration of securities if no takeover bid circular or issuer bid circular (in the case of an exchange offer) or information circular (in the case of a business combination) is prepared pursuant to the requirements of any Canadian jurisdiction due to the availability of an exemption from such requirements.
(c) This Form may not be used for registration of derivative securities except:
(1) Warrants, options and rights, provided that such securities and the underlying securities to which they relate are issued by the registrant, its parent or an affiliate of either; and
(2) Convertible securities, provided that such securities are convertible only into securities of the registrant, its parent or an affiliate of either.
Instruction:
For purposes of this Form, an “affiliate” of a person is anyone who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, or exercises control or direction over, more than 10 percent of the outstanding equity shares of such person. The determination of a person's affiliates shall be made as of the end of such person's most recently completed fiscal year.
(d) In the case of an exchange offer, Form F-8 is available to any registrant that:
(1) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada, or any Canadian province or territory;
(2) Is a foreign private issuer;
(3) Has had a class of its securities listed on The Montreal Exchange, The Toronto Stock Exchange or the Senior Board of the Vancouver Stock Exchange for the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada for a period of at least 36 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, and is currently in compliance with obligations arising from such listing and reporting; and
(4) Has an aggregate market value of the public float of its outstanding equity shares of (CN) $75 million or more;
provided, however,
that such public float requirement need not be satisfied if the issuer of the securities to be exchanged is also the registrant on this Form.
Instructions:
1. For purposes of this Form, “foreign private issuer” shall be construed in accordance with rule 405 under the Securities Act.
2. For purposes of this Form, “equity shares” shall mean common shares, non-voting equity shares and subordinate or restricted voting equity shares, but shall not include preferred shares.
3. For purposes of this Form, the “public float” of specified securities shall mean only such securities held by persons other than affiliates of the issuer.
4. For purposes of this Form, the market value of the public float of outstanding equity shares shall be computed by use of the price at which such shares were last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of such shares, in the principal market for such shares as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing. If there is no market for any of such securities, the book value of such securities computed as of the latest practicable date prior to the filing of this Form shall be used for purposes of calculating the market value, unless the issuer of such securities is in bankruptcy or receivership or has an accumulated capital deficit, in which case one-third of the principal amount, par value or stated value of such securities shall be used.
(e) In the case of an exchange offer, the securities to be registered on this Form shall be offered to U. S. holders upon terms and conditions not less favorable than those offered to any other holder of the same class of the securities to be exchanged (the “subject securities”) for the securities of the registrant.
(f) In the case of an exchange offer, if the registrant is a successor registrant subsisting after a business combination, the registrant shall be deemed to meet the 36-month reporting requirement and the 12-month listing requirement of paragraph (d)(3) of this section if:
(1) The time the successor registrant has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada, when added separately to the time each predecessor had been subject to such requirements at the time of the business combination, in each case equals at least 36 calendar months,
provided, however,
that any predecessor need not be considered for purposes of the reporting history calculation if the reporting histories of predecessors whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of such participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years immediately prior
to the business combination, when combined with the reporting history of the successor registrant in each case satisfy such 36-month reporting requirement;
(2) The time the successor registrant has been subject to the listing requirements of the specified exchanges, when added separately to the time each predecessor had been subject to such requirements at the time of the business combination, in each case equals at least 12 calendar months,
provided, however,
that any predecessor need not be considered for purposes of the listing history calculation if the listing histories of predecessors whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of such participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years immediately prior to the business combination, when combined with the listing history of the successor registrant in each case satisfy such 12-month listing requirement; and
(3) The successor registrant has been subject to such continuous disclosure requirements and listing requirements since the business combination, and is currently in compliance with its obligations thereunder.
(g) In the case of an exchange offer, the issuer of the subject securities shall be incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory and be a foreign private issuer, and less than 25 percent of the class of subject securities outstanding shall be held by U. S. holders.
Instructions:
1. For purposes of exchange offers, the term “U. S. holder” shall mean any person whose address appears on the records of the issuer of the subject securities, any voting trustee, any depositary, any share transfer agent or any person acting in a similar capacity on behalf of the issuer of the subject securities as being located in the United States.
2. With respect to any tender offer, including any exchange offer, otherwise eligible to proceed in accordance with rule 14d-1(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the issuer of the subject securities will be presumed to be a foreign private issuer and U. S. holders will be presumed to hold less than 25 percent of such outstanding securities,
unless
(a) the aggregate trading volume of that class on national securities exchanges in the United States and on NASDAQ exceeded its aggregate trading volume on securities exchanges in Canada and on the Canadian Dealing Network, Inc. (“CDN”) over the 12 calendar month period prior to commencement of this offer, or if commenced in response to a prior offer, over the 12 calendar month period prior to commencement of the initial offer (based on volume figures published by such exchanges and NASDAQ and CDN) ; (b) the most recent annual report or annual information form filed or submitted by the issuer with securities regulators of Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia or Alberta (or, if the issuer of the subject securities is not a reporting issuer in any of such provinces, with any other Canadian securities regulator) or with the Commission indicates that U. S. holders hold 25 percent or more of the outstanding subject class of securities; or (c) the offeror has actual knowledge that the level of U. S. ownership equals or exceeds 25 percent of such securities.
3. For purposes of this Form, if this Form is filed during the pendency of one or more ongoing cash tender or exchange offers for securities of the class subject to the offer that was commenced or was eligible to be commenced on Schedule 13E-4F, Schedule 14D-1F, and/or Form F-8 or Form F-80, the date for calculation of U.S. ownership shall be the same as that date used by the initial bidder or issuer.
4. For purposes of this Form, the class of subject securities shall not include any securities that may be converted into or are exchangeable for the subject securities.
5. For purposes of exchange offers, the calculation of U. S. holders shall be made as of the end of the subject issuer's last quarter or, if such quarter terminated within 60 days of the filing date, as of the end of such issuer's preceding quarter.
(h) In the case of a business combination, Form F-8 is available if:
(1) Each company participating in the business combination, including the successor registrant, is incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory and is a foreign private issuer;
(2) Each company participating in the business combination other than the successor registrant has had a class of its securities listed on The Montreal
Exchange, The Toronto Stock Exchange or the Senior Board of the Vancouver Stock Exchange for the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada for a period of at least 36 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, and is currently in compliance with obligations arising from such listing and reporting;
provided, however,
that any such participating company shall not be required to meet such 36-month reporting requirement or 12-month listing requirement if other participating companies whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of the participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years, each meet such reporting and listing requirements; and
(3) The aggregate market value of the public float of the outstanding equity shares of each company participating in the business combination other than the successor registrant is (CN) $75 million or more;
provided, however,
that any such participating company shall not be required to meet such public float requirement if other participating companies whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of the participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years, each meet such public float requirement; and,
provided further,
that such public float requirement shall be deemed satisfied in the case of a participating company whose equity shares were the subject of an exchange offer that was registered or would have been eligible for registration on Form F-8, Form F-10 or Form F-80, or a tender offer in connection with which Schedule 13E-4F or 14D-1F was filed or could have been filed, that terminated within the last twelve months, if the participating company would have satisfied such public float requirement immediately prior to commencement of such exchange or tender offer.
(i) In the case of a business combination, less than 25 percent of the class of securities to be offered by the successor registrant shall be held by U.S. holders as if measured immediately after completion of the business combination.
Instructions:
1. For purposes of business combinations, the term “U.S. holder” shall mean any person whose address appears on the records of a participating company, any voting trustee, any depositary, any share transfer agent or any person acting in a similar capacity on behalf of a participating company as being located in the United States.
2. For purposes of business combinations, the calculation of U.S. holders shall be made by a participant as of the end of such participant's last quarter or, if such quarter terminated within 60 days of the filing date, as of the end of such participant's preceding quarter.
(j) In the case of a business combination, the securities to be registered on this Form shall be offered to U.S. holders upon terms and conditions not less favorable than those offered to any other holder of the same class of such securities of the participating company.
(k) This Form shall not be used if the registrant or, in the case of an exchange offer, the issuer of the subject securities, is an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(l) Registrants and any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to the securities being registered shall each file a Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) with the Commission at the time of filing this Form.
[56 FR 30061, July 1, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-8, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.39
[Reserved]
§ 239.40
Form F-10, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain Canadian issuers.
(a) Form F-10 may be used for the registration of securities under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), including securities to be issued in an exchange offer or in connection with a statutory amalgamation, merger, arrangement or other reorganization requiring the vote of shareholders of the participating companies (a “business combination”).
(b) This Form may not be used for registration of derivative securities except:
(1) Warrants, options and rights, provided that such securities and the underlying securities to which they relate are issued by the registrant, its parent or an affiliate of either; and
(2) Convertible securities, provided that such securities are convertible only into securities of the registrant, its parent or an affiliate of either.
Instruction:
For purposes of this Form, an “affiliate” of a person is anyone who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, or exercises control or direction over, more than 10 percent of the outstanding equity shares of such person. The determination of a person's affiliates shall be made as of the end of such person's most recently completed fiscal year.
(c) Form F-10 is available to any registrant that:
(1) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory;
(2) Is a foreign private issuer;
(3) Has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada for a period of at least 12 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, and is currently in compliance with such obligations,
provided, however,
that in the case of a business combination, each participating company other than the successor registrant must meet such 12-month reporting obligation, except that any such participating company shall not be required to meet such reporting requirement if other participating companies whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of the participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years, each meet such reporting requirement; and
(4) Has an aggregate market value of the public float of its outstanding equity shares of $75 million or more;
provided, however,
that in the case of a business combination, the aggregate market value of the public float of the outstanding equity shares of each participating company other than the successor registrant is $75 million or more, except that any such participating company shall not be required to meet such public float requirement if other participating companies whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of the participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years, each meet such public float requirement; and
provided, further,
that in the case of a business combination, such public float requirement shall be deemed satisfied in the case of a participating company whose equity shares were the subject of an exchange offer that was registered or would have been eligible for registration on Form F-8, Form F-10 or Form F-80 (§§ 239.38, 239.39, 239.40 or 239.41) or a tender offer in connection with which Schedule 13E-4F or 14D-1F (§§ 240.13e-102 or 240.14d-102 of this chapter) was filed or could have been filed, that terminated within the last twelve months, if the participating company would have satisfied such public float requirement immediately prior to commencement of such exchange or tender offer.
Instructions:
1. For purposes of this Form, “foreign private issuer” shall be construed in accordance with rule 405 under the Securities Act.
2. For purposes of this Form, the “public float” of specified securities shall mean only such securities held by persons other than affiliates of the issuer.
3. For purposes of this Form, “equity shares” shall mean common shares, non-voting equity shares and subordinate or restricted voting equity shares, but shall not include preferred shares.
4. For purposes of this Form, the market value of outstanding equity shares (whether or not held by affiliates) shall be computed by use of the price at which such shares were last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of such shares, in the principal market for such shares as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing. If there is no market for any of such securities, the book value of such securities computed as of the latest practicable date prior to the filing of this Form shall be used for purposes of calculating the market value, unless the issuer of such securities is in bankruptcy or receivership or has an accumulated capital deficit, in which case one-third of the principal amount, par value or stated value of such securities shall be used.
(d) In the case of an exchange offer, the issuer of the securities to be exchanged (the “subject securities”) for securities of the registrant shall be incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory and be a foreign private issuer.
(e) In the case of a business combination, each participating company shall be incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory and be a foreign private issuer.
(f) In the case of an exchange offer, the securities to be registered on this Form shall be offered to U.S. holders upon terms and conditions not less favorable than those offered to any other holder of the same class of the subject securities.
(g) In the case of a business combination, the securities to be registered on this Form shall be offered to U.S. holders upon terms and conditions not less favorable than those offered to any other holder of the same class of such securities of the participating company.
Instructions:
1. For purposes of exchange offers, the term “U.S. holder” shall mean any person whose address appears on the records of the issuer of the subject securities, any voting trustee, any depositary, any share transfer agent or any person acting in a similar capacity on behalf of the issuer of the subject securities as being located in the United States.
2. For purposes of business combinations, the term “U.S. holder” shall mean any person whose address appears on the records of a participating company, any voting trustee, any depositary, any share transfer agent or any person acting in a similar capacity on behalf of a participating company as being located in the United States.
3. For purposes of this Form, the class of subject securities shall not include any securities that may be converted into or are exchangeable for the subject securities.
(h) With respect to registration of debt securities or preferred securities on this Form, if the registrant is a majority-owned subsidiary, it shall be deemed to meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section if the parent of the registrant-subsidiary meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and fully and unconditionally guarantees the securities being registered as to principal and interest (if debt securities) or as to liquidation preference, redemption price and dividends (if preferred shares);
provided, however,
that the securities of the subsidiary are only convertible or exchangeable, if at all, for the securities of the parent.
(i) If the registrant is a successor registrant subsisting after a business combination, it shall be deemed to meet the 12-month reporting requirement of paragraph (c)(3) of this section if:
(1) The time the successor registrant has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada, when added separately to the time each predecessor had been subject to such requirements at the time of the business combination, in each case equals at least 12 calendar months,
provided, however,
that any predecessor need not be considered for purposes of the reporting history calculation if the reporting histories of predecessors whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of such participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years immediately prior to the business combination, when combined with the reporting history of the successor registrant in each case
satisfy such 12-month reporting requirement; and
(2) The successor registrant has been subject to such continuous disclosure requirements since the business combination, and is currently in compliance with its obligations thereunder.
(j) This Form shall not be used for registration of securities if no takeover bid circular or issuer bid circular (in the case of an exchange offer) or information circular (in the case of a business combination) or prospectus (in all other cases) is prepared pursuant to the requirements of any Canadian jurisdiction due to the availability of an exemption from such requirements.
(k) This Form shall not be used if the registrant or, in the case of an exchange offer, the issuer of the subject securities is an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(l) Registrants and any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to the securities being registered shall each file a Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) with the Commission at the time of filing this Form.
[56 FR 30064, July 1, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 62030, Nov. 23, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-10, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.41
Form F-80, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain Canadian issuers to be issued in exchange offers or a business combination.
(a) Form F-80 may be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) of securities to be issued in an exchange offer or in connection with a statutory amalgamation, merger, arrangement or other reorganization requiring the vote of shareholders of the participating companies (a “business combination”). Securities may be registered on this Form whether they constitute the sole consideration for such exchange offer or business combination, or are offered in conjunction with cash.
(b) This Form shall not be used for registration of securities if no takeover bid circular or issuer bid circular (in the case of an exchange offer) or information circular (in the case of a business combination) is prepared pursuant to the requirements of any Canadian jurisdiction due to the availability of an exemption from such requirements.
(c) This Form may not be used for registration of derivative securities except:
(1) Warrants, options and rights, provided that such securities and the underlying securities to which they relate are issued by the registrant, its parent or an affiliate of either; and
(2) Convertible securities, provided that such securities are convertible only into securities of the registrant, its parent or an affiliate of either.
Instruction:
For purposes of this Form, an “affiliate” of a person is anyone who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, or exercises control or direction over, more than 10 percent of the outstanding equity shares of such person. The determination of a person's affiliates shall be made as of the end of such person's most recently completed fiscal year.
(d) In the case of an exchange offer, Form F-80 is available to any registrant that:
(1) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory;
(2) Is a foreign private issuer;
(3) Has had a class of its securities listed on The Montreal Exchange, The Toronto Stock Exchange or the Senior Board of the Vancouver Stock Exchange for the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada for a period of at least 36 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, and is currently in compliance with obligations arising from such listing and reporting; and
(4) Has an aggregate market value of the public float of its outstanding equity shares of (CN) $75 million or more;
provided, however,
that such public float requirement need not be satisfied if the issuer of the securities to be exchanged is also the registrant on this Form.
Instructions:
1. For purposes of this Form, “foreign private issuer” shall be construed in
accordance with Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
2. For purposes of this Form, “equity shares” shall mean common shares, non-voting equity shares and subordinate or restricted voting equity shares, but shall not include preferred shares.
3. For purposes of this Form, the “public float” of specified securities shall mean only such securities held by persons other than affiliates of the issuer.
4. For purposes of this Form, the market value of the public float of outstanding equity shares shall be computed by use of the price at which such shares were last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of such shares, in the principal market for such shares as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing. If there is no market for any of such securities, the book value of such securities computed as of the latest practicable date prior to the filing of this Form shall be used for purposes of calculating the market value, unless the issuer of such securities is in bankruptcy or receivership or has an accumulated capital deficit, in which case one-third of the principal amount, par value or stated value of such securities shall be used.
(e) In the case of an exchange offer, the securities to be registered on this Form shall be offered to U. S. holders upon terms and conditions not less favorable than those offered to any other holder of the same class of the securities to be exchanged (the “subject securities”) for the securities of the registrant.
(f) In the case of an exchange offer, if the registrant is a successor registrant subsisting after a business combination, the registrant shall be deemed to meet the 36-month reporting requirement and the 12-month listing requirement of paragraph (d) (3) of this section if:
(1) The time the successor registrant has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada, when added separately to the time each predecessor had been subject to such requirements at the time of the business combination, in each case equals at least 36 calendar months,
provided, however,
that any predecessor need not be considered for purposes of the reporting history calculation if the reporting histories of predecessors whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of such participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years immediately prior to the business combination, when combined with the reporting history of the successor registrant in each case satisfy such 36-month reporting requirement;
(2) The time the successor registrant has been subject to the listing requirements of the specified exchanges, when added separately to the time each predecessor had been subject to such requirements at the time of the business combination, in each case equals at least 12 calendar months,
provided, however,
that any predecessor need not be considered for purposes of the listing history calculation if the listing histories of predecessors whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of such participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years immediately prior to the business combination, when combined with the listing history of the successor registrant in each case satisfy such 12-month listing requirement; and
(3) The successor registrant has been subject to such continuous disclosure requirements and listing requirements since the business combination, and is currently in compliance with its obligations thereunder.
(g) In the case of an exchange offer, the issuer of the subject securities shall be incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory and be a foreign private issuer, and less than 40 percent of the class of subject securities outstanding shall be held by U.S. holders.
Instructions:
1. For purposes of exchange offers, the term “U.S. holder” shall mean any person whose address appears on the records of the issuer of the subject securities, any voting trustee, any depositary, any share transfer agent or any person acting in a similar capacity on behalf of the issuer of the subject securities as being located in the United States.
2. With respect to any tender offer, including any exchange offer, otherwise eligible to proceed in accordance with Rule 14d-1(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the issuer of the subject securities will be presumed to be a foreign private issuer and U.S. holders will be presumed to hold less than 40 percent of such outstanding securities, unless (a) the aggregate trading volume of that class on national securities exchanges in the United States and on NASDAQ exceeded its aggregate trading volume on securities exchanges in Canada and on the Canadian Dealing Network, Inc. (“CDN”) over the 12 calendar month period prior to commencement of this offer, or if commenced in response to a prior offer, over the 12 calendar month period prior to commencement of the initial offer (based on volume figures published by such exchanges and NASDAQ and CDN); (b) the most recent annual report or annual information form filed or submitted by the issuer with securities regulators of Ontario, Quebec, British Columbia or Alberta (or, if the issuer of the subject securities is not a reporting issuer in any of such provinces, with any other Canadian securities regulator) or with the Commission indicates that U.S. holders hold 40 percent or more of the outstanding subject class of securities; or (c) the offeror has actual knowledge that the level of U.S. ownership equals or exceeds 40 percent of such securities.
3. For purposes of this Form, if this Form is filed during the pendency of one or more ongoing cash tender or exchange offers for securities of the class subject to the offer that was commenced or was eligible to be commenced on Schedule 13E-4F, Schedule 14D-1F, and/or Form F-8 or Form F-80, the date for calculation of U.S. ownership shall be the same as that date used by the initial bidder or issuer.
4. For purposes of this Form, the class of subject securities shall not include any securities that may be converted into or are exchangeable for the subject securities.
5. For purposes of exchange offers, the calculation of U.S. holders shall be made as of the end of the subject issuer's last quarter or, if such quarter terminated within 60 days of the filing date, as of the end of such issuer's preceding quarter.
(h) In the case of a business combination, Form F-80 is available if:
(1) Each company participating in the business combination, including the successor registrant, is incorporated or organized under the laws of Canada or any Canadian province or territory and is a foreign private issuer;
(2) Each company participating in the business combination other than the successor registrant has had a class of its securities listed on The Montreal Exchange, The Toronto Stock Exchange or the Senior Board of the Vancouver Stock Exchange for the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, has been subject to the continuous disclosure requirements of any securities commission or equivalent regulatory authority in Canada for a period of at least 36 calendar months immediately preceding the filing of this Form, and is currently in compliance with obligations arising from such listing and reporting;
provided, however,
that any such participating company shall not be required to meet such 36-month reporting requirement or 12-month listing requirement if other participating companies whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of the participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years, each meet such reporting and listing requirements; and
(3) The aggregate market value of the public float of the outstanding equity shares of each company participating in the business combination other than the successor registrant is (CN) $75 million or more;
provided, however,
that any such participating company shall not be required to meet such public float requirement if other participating companies whose assets and gross revenues, respectively, would contribute at least 80 percent of the total assets and gross revenues from continuing operations of the successor registrant, as measured based on pro forma combination of the participating companies' most recently completed fiscal years, each meet such public float requirement; and,
provided further,
that such public float requirement shall be deemed satisfied in the case of a participating company whose equity shares were the subject of an exchange offer that was registered or would have been eligible for registration on Form F-8, Form F-10 or Form F-80, or a tender offer in connection with which Schedule 13E-4F or 14D-1F was filed or could have been filed, that terminated within the last twelve months, if the
participating company would have satisfied such public float requirement immediately prior to commencement of such exchange or tender offer.
(i) In the case of a business combination, less than 40 percent of the class of securities to be offered by the successor registrant shall be held by U.S. holders, as if measured immediately after completion of the business combination.
Instructions:
1. For purposes of business combinations, the term “U.S. holder” shall mean any person whose address appears on the records of a participating company, any voting trustee, any depositary, any share transfer agent or any person acting in a similar capacity on behalf of a participating company as being located in the United States.
2. For purposes of business combinations, the calculation of U.S. holders shall be made by a participant as of the end of such participant's last quarter or, if such quarter terminated within 60 days of the filing date, as of the end of such participant's preceding quarter.
(j) In the case of a business combination, the securities to be registered on this Form shall be offered to U.S. holders upon terms and conditions not less favorable than those offered to any other holder of the same class of such securities of the participating company.
(k) This Form shall not be used if the registrant or, in the case of an exchange offer, the issuer of the subject securities is an investment company registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(l) Registrants and any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to the securities being registered shall each file a Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) with the Commission at the time of filing this Form.
[56 FR 30065, July 1, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form F-80, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.42
Form F-X, for appointment of agent for service of process and undertaking for issuers registering securities on Form F-8, F-10, or F-80 (§§ 239.38, 239.39, 239.40, or 239.41), or registering securities or filing periodic reports on Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter), or by any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F, or 14D-9F (§§ 240.13e-102, 240.14d-102, or 240.14d-103 of this chapter), by any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7 (§ 239.37), F-8, F-10, or by a Canadian issuer qualifying an offering statement pursuant to Regulation A (§ 230.251
et seq.
of this chapter) on Form 1-A (§ 239.90), or by any non-U.S. issuer providing Form CB (§ 249.480 of this chapter) to the Commission in connection with a tender offer, rights offering or business combination.
Form F-X shall be filed with the Commission:
(a) By any issuer registering securities on Form F-8, F-10, or F-80 under the Securities Act of 1933;
(b) By any issuer registering securities on Form 40-F under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(c) By any issuer filing a periodic report on Form 40-F, if it has not previously filed a Form F-X in connection with the class of securities in relation to which the obligation to file a report on Form 40-F arises;
(d) By any issuer or other non-U.S. person filing tender offer documents on Schedule 13E-4F, 14D-1F, or 14D-9F;
(e) By any non-U.S. person acting as trustee with respect to securities registered on Form F-7, F-8, F-10, or F-80;
(f) By a Canadian issuer qualifying an offering statement pursuant to the provisions of Regulation A; and
(g) By any non-U.S. issuer providing Form CB to the Commission in connection with a tender offer, rights offering or business combination.
[73 FR 972, Jan. 4, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 46620, Aug. 3, 2011]
§ 239.43
Form F-N, appointment of agent for service of process by foreign banks and foreign insurance companies and certain of their holding companies and finance subsidiaries making public offerings of securities in the United States.
Form F-N shall be filed with the Commission in connection with the filing of a registration statement under the Act by those entities specified in rule 489 (17 CFR 230.489).
[56 FR 56299, Nov. 4, 1991]
§ 239.44
Form SF-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 for offerings of asset-backed securities.
This Form shall be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of all offerings of asset-backed securities, as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c).
[79 FR 57333, Sept. 24, 2014]
§ 239.45
Form SF-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 for offerings of asset-backed issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
This Form may be used for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) of offerings of asset-backed securities, as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c). Any registrant which meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may use this Form for the registration of asset-backed securities (as defined in 17 CFR 229.1101(c)) under the Securities Act which are offered in any transaction specified in paragraph (b) of this section provided that the requirements applicable to the specified transaction are met. Terms used have the same meaning as in Item 1101 of Regulation AB (17 CFR 229.1101).
(a)
Registrant requirements.
Registrants must meet the following conditions in order to use this Form for registration under the Securities Act of asset-backed securities offered in the transactions specified in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) To the extent the depositor or any issuing entity previously established, directly or indirectly, by the depositor or any affiliate of the depositor (as defined in Item 1101 of Regulation AB (17 CFR 229.1101)) is or was at any time during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement on this Form required to comply with the transaction requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section with respect to a previous offering of asset-backed securities involving the same asset class, the following requirements shall apply:
(i) Such depositor and each such issuing entity must have filed on a timely basis all certifications required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and
(ii) Such depositor and each such issuing entity must have filed on a timely basis all transaction agreements containing the provisions that are required by paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section.
(iii) If such depositor or issuing entity fails to meet the requirements of paragraphs(a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, such depositor or issuing entity will be deemed to satisfy such requirements for purposes of this Form 90 days after the date it files the information required by paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section; provided however that if the information is filed within 90 days of evaluating compliance with this paragraph (a) such depositor and issuing entity will be deemed to have been in compliance with such requirements for purposes of this Form 90 days after the date it files the information required by paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
Instruction to paragraph (a)(1).
The registrant must provide disclosure in a prospectus that is part of the registration statement that it has met the registrant requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(2) To the extent the depositor or any issuing entity previously established, directly or indirectly, by the depositor or any affiliate of the depositor (as defined in Item 1101 of Regulation AB (17 CFR 229.1101)) is or was at any time during the twelve calendar months and any portion of a month immediately preceding the filing of the registration statement on this Form subject to the requirements of section 12 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
or 78o(d)) with respect to a class of asset-backed securities involving the same asset class, such depositor and each such issuing entity must have filed all
material required to be filed regarding such asset-backed securities pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)) for such period (or such shorter period that each such entity was required to file such materials). In addition, such material must have been filed in a timely manner, other than a report that is required solely pursuant to Item 1.01, 1.02, 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 4.02(a), 6.01, or 6.03 of Form 8-K (17 CFR 249.308). If § 240.12b-25(b) of this chapter was used during such period with respect to a report or a portion of a report, that report or portion thereof has actually been filed within the time period prescribed by § 240.12b-25(b) of this chapter. Regarding an affiliated depositor that became an affiliate as a result of a business combination transaction during such period, the filing of any material prior to the business combination transaction relating to asset-backed securities of an issuing entity previously established, directly or indirectly, by such affiliated depositor is excluded from this section, provided such business combination transaction was not part of a plan or scheme to evade the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. See the definition of “affiliate” in § 230.405 of this chapter.
(b)
Transaction Requirements.
If the registrant meets the registrant requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section, an offering meeting the following conditions may be registered on this Form SF-3:
(1) Asset-backed securities (as defined in § 229.1101(c) of this chapter) to be offered for cash where the following have been satisfied:
(i)
Certification.
The registrant files a certification in accordance with Item 601(b)(36) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601(b)(36) of this chapter) signed by the chief executive officer of the depositor with respect to each offering of securities that is registered on this Form.
(ii)
Asset review provision.
With respect to each offering of securities that is registered on this Form, the pooling and servicing agreement or other transaction agreement, which shall be filed, must provide for the following:
(A) The selection and appointment of an asset representations reviewer that is not:
(
1
) Affiliated with any sponsor, depositor, servicer, or trustee of the transaction, or any of their affiliates; or
(
2
) The same party or an affiliate of any party hired by the sponsor or the underwriter to perform pre-closing due diligence work on the pool assets;
(B) The asset representations reviewer shall have authority to access copies of any underlying documents related to performing a review of the pool assets;
(C) The asset representations reviewer shall be responsible for reviewing the underlying assets for compliance with the representations and warranties on the pool assets, and shall not otherwise be the party to determine whether noncompliance with representations or warranties constitutes a breach of any contractual provision. Reviews shall be required under the transaction documents, at a minimum, when the following conditions are met:
(
1
) A threshold of delinquent assets, as specified in the transaction agreements, has been reached or exceeded; and
(
2
) An investor vote to direct a review, pursuant to the processes specified in the transaction agreements, provided that the agreement not require more than:
(
i
) 5% of the total interest in the pool in order to initiate a vote and
(
ii
) A simple majority of those interests casting a vote to direct a review by the asset representations reviewer;
(D) The asset representations reviewer shall perform, at a minimum, reviews of all assets 60 days or more delinquent when the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section are met; and
(E) The asset representations reviewer shall provide a report to the trustee of the findings and conclusions of the review of the assets.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(1)(ii).
The threshold of delinquent assets shall be calculated as a percentage of the aggregate dollar amount of delinquent assets in a given pool to the aggregate dollar amount of all the assets in that particular pool, measured as of the end of the reporting period. If the
transaction has multiple sub-pools, the transaction agreements must provide that:
1. The delinquency threshold shall be calculated with respect to each sub-pool; and
2. The investor vote calculation shall be measured as a percentage of investors' interest in each sub-pool.
(iii)
Dispute resolution provision.
With respect to each offering of securities that is registered on this Form, the pooling and servicing agreement or other transaction agreement, which shall be filed, must provide for the following:
(A) If an asset subject to a repurchase request, pursuant to the terms of the transaction agreements, is not resolved by the end of a 180-day period beginning when notice of the request is received, then the party submitting such repurchase request shall have the right to refer the matter, at its discretion, to either mediation or third-party arbitration, and the party obligated to repurchase must agree to the selected resolution method.
(B) If the party submitting the request elects third-party arbitration, the arbitrator shall determine the allocation of any expenses. If the party submitting the request elects mediation, the parties shall mutually determine the allocation of any expenses.
(iv)
Investor communication provision.
With respect to each offering of securities that is registered on this Form, the pooling and servicing agreement or other transaction agreement, which shall be filed, must contain a provision requiring that the party responsible for making periodic filings on Form 10-D (§ 249.312 of this chapter) include in the Form 10-D any request received during the reporting period from an investor to communicate with other investors related to investors exercising their rights under the terms of the transaction agreements. The disclosure regarding the request to communicate is required to include no more than the name of the investor making the request, the date the request was received, a statement to the effect that the party responsible for filing the Form 10-D has received a request from such investor, stating that such investor is interested in communicating with other investors with regard to the possible exercise of rights under the transaction agreements, and a description of the method other investors may use to contact the requesting investor.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(1)(iv).
If an underlying transaction agreement contains procedures in order to verify that an investor is, in fact, a beneficial owner for purposes of invoking the investor communication provision, the verification procedures may require no more than the following:
1. If the investor is a record holder of the securities at the time of a request to communicate, then the investor will not have to provide verification of ownership, and
2. If the investor is not the record holder of the securities, then the person obligated to make the disclosure may require no more than a written certification from the investor that it is a beneficial owner and one other form of documentation such as a trade confirmation, an account statement, a letter from the broker or dealer, or other similar document.
(v)
Delinquent assets.
Delinquent assets do not constitute 20% or more, as measured by dollar volume, of the asset pool as of the measurement date.
(vi)
Residual value for certain securities.
With respect to securities that are backed by leases other than motor vehicle leases, the portion of the securitized pool balance attributable to the residual value of the physical property underlying the leases, as determined in accordance with the transaction agreements for the securities, does not constitute 20% or more, as measured by dollar volume, of the securitized pool balance as of the measurement date.
(2) Securities relating to an offering of asset-backed securities registered in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section where those securities represent an interest in or the right to the payments of cash flows of another asset pool and meet the requirements of § 230.190(c)(1) through (4) of this chapter.
[79 FR 57337, Sept. 24, 2014]
§§ 239.46-239.62
[Reserved]
§ 239.63
Form ID, application for EDGAR access.
Form ID must be filed by electronic filers, or by their account administrators, to request EDGAR access and to authorize account administrators to
manage the electronic filer's EDGAR account.
[89 FR 106223, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 239.64
Form SE, form for submission of paper format exhibits by electronic filers.
This form shall be used by an electronic filer for the submission of any paper format document relating to an otherwise electronic filing, as provided in Rule 311 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.311 of this chapter).
[58 FR 14682, Mar. 18, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form SE, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.65
Form TH—Notification of reliance on temporary hardship exemption.
Form TH shall be filed by any electronic filer who submits to the Commission, pursuant to a temporary hardship exemption, a document in paper format that otherwise would be required to be submitted electronically, as prescribed by Rule 201(a) of Regulation S-T (§ 232.201(a) of this chapter).
[58 FR 14682, Mar. 18, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form TH, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.66
Form 24F-2, annual filing of securities sold pursuant to registration of certain investment company securities and registered non-variable annuities.
Form 24F-2 shall be used as the annual report filed by face amount certificate companies, open-end management companies, unit investment trusts, and registered non-variable annuities pursuant to §§ 230.456, 230.457, or 270.24f-2 of this chapter for reporting securities sold during the fiscal year.
[89 FR 60092, July 24, 2024]

# Subpart B—Forms Pertaining to Exemptions
§ 239.90
Form 1-A, offering statement under Regulation A.
This form shall be used for filing under Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263 of this chapter).
[57 FR 36476, Aug. 13, 1992]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 1-A, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.91
Form 1-K.
This form shall be used for filing annual reports under Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263 of this chapter).
[80 FR 21915, Apr. 20, 2015]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 1-K, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.92
Form 1-SA.
This form shall be used for filing semiannual reports under Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263 of this chapter).
[80 FR 21917, Apr. 20, 2015]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 1-SA, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.93
Form 1-U.
This form shall be used for filing current reports under Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263 of this chapter).
[80 FR 21918, Apr. 20, 2015]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 1-U, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.94
Form 1-Z.
This form shall be used to file an exit report under Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263 of this chapter).
[80 FR 21922, Apr. 20, 2015]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 1-Z, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the
Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 239.95-239.143
[Reserved]
§ 239.144
Form 144, for notice of proposed sale of securities pursuant to § 230.144 of this chapter.
(a) Except as indicated in paragraph (b) of this section, each person who intends to sell securities in reliance upon § 230.144 of this chapter, where the issuer of the securities:
(1) Is, and has been for a period of at least 90 days immediately before the sale, subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78
o
(d), respectively), shall file this form in electronic format by means of the Commission's Electronic Data, Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (EDGAR) in accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in part 232 of this chapter (Regulation S-T).
(2) Is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78
o
(d), respectively), shall file three copies of this form in paper format.
(b) This form need not be filed if the amount of securities to be sold during any period of three months does not exceed 5,000 shares or other units and the aggregate sale price does not exceed $50,000.
(c) Under sections 2(11), 4(1), 4(2), 4(4) and 19(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (17 CFR 230) and Rule 144 thereunder, the Commission is authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this form by persons desiring to sell unregistered securities. Disclosure of the information specified in this form is mandatory before processing notices of proposed sale of securities under § 230.144 of this chapter. The information will be used for the primary purpose of disclosing the proposed sale of unregistered securities by persons deemed not to be engaged in the distribution of securities. This notice will be made a matter of public record. Therefore, any information given will be available for inspection by any member of the public. Because of the public nature of the information, the Commission can utilize it for a variety of purposes, including referral to other governmental authorities or securities self-regulatory organizations for investigatory purposes or in connection with litigation involving the Federal securities laws or other civil, criminal or regulatory statutes or provisions. Failure to disclose the information requested by Form 144 would make an exception under § 230.144 of this chapter unavailable and may result in civil or criminal action for violations of the Federal securities laws.
[37 FR 4329, Mar. 2, 1972, as amended at 40 FR 55319, Nov. 28, 1975; 43 FR 5423, Nov. 21, 1978; 62 FR 35340, July 1, 1997; 68 FR 25799, May 13, 2003; 72 FR 71571, Dec. 17, 2007]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 144, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 239.145-239.199
[Reserved]
§ 239.200
Form 1-E, notification under Regulation E.
This form shall be used for notification pursuant to Rule 604 (§ 230.604 of this chapter) of Regulation E (§§ 230.601-230.610a of this chapter) by a small business investment company or business development company described in Rule 602 (§ 230.602 of this chapter).
(Secs 3(b) and 3(c), Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c (b) and (c); sec. 38, Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-37))
[49 FR 35347, Sept. 7, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form 1-E, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.201
Form 2-E, report of sales pursuant to Rule 609 of Regulation E.
This form shall be used for report of sales of securities under Regulation E (§§ 230.601-230.610a of this chapter) by a small business investment company described in Rule 602 (§ 230.602 of this chapter) as required by Rule 609 of Regulation E (§ 230.609 of this chapter).
§§ 239.202-239.300
[Reserved]
§ 239.500
Form D, notice of sales of securities under Regulation D and section 4(a)(5) of the Securities Act of 1933.
(a)
When notice of sales on Form D must be filed.
(1) An issuer offering or selling securities in reliance on § 230.504 or § 230.506 of this chapter or section 4(a)(5) of the Securities Act of 1933 must file with the Commission a notice of sales containing the information required by this form for each new offering of securities no later than 15 calendar days after the first sale of securities in the offering, unless the end of that period falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, in which case the due date would be the first business day following.
(2) An issuer may file an amendment to a previously filed notice of sales on Form D at any time.
(3) An issuer must file an amendment to a previously filed notice of sales on Form D for an offering:
(i) To correct a material mistake of fact or error in the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, as soon as practicable after discovery of the mistake or error;
(ii) To reflect a change in the information provided in the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, as soon as practicable after the change, except that no amendment is required to reflect a change that occurs after the offering terminates or a change that occurs solely in the following information:
(A) The address or relationship to the issuer of a related person identified in response to Item 3 of the notice of sales on Form D;
(B) An issuer's revenues or aggregate net asset value;
(C) The minimum investment amount, if the change is an increase, or if the change, together with all other changes in that amount since the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, does not result in a decrease of more than 10%;
(D) Any address or state(s) of solicitation shown in response to Item 12 of the notice of sales on Form D;
(E) The total offering amount, if the change is a decrease, or if the change, together with all other changes in that amount since the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, does not result in an increase of more than 10%;
(F) The amount of securities sold in the offering or the amount remaining to be sold;
(G) The number of non-accredited investors who have invested in the offering, as long as the change does not increase the number to more than 35;
(H) The total number of investors who have invested in the offering;
(I) The amount of sales commissions, finders' fees or use of proceeds for payments to executive officers, directors or promoters, if the change is a decrease, or if the change, together with all other changes in that amount since the previously filed notice of sales on Form D, does not result in an increase of more than 10%; and
(iii) Annually, on or before the first anniversary of the filing of the notice of sales on Form D or the filing of the most recent amendment to the notice of sales on Form D, if the offering is continuing at that time.
(4) An issuer that files an amendment to a previously filed notice of sales on Form D must provide current information in response to all requirements of the notice of sales on Form D regardless of why the amendment is filed.
(b)
How notice of sales on Form D must be filed and signed.
(1) A notice of sales on Form D must be filed with the Commission in electronic format by means of the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval System (EDGAR) in accordance with EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(2) Every notice of sales on Form D must be signed by a person duly authorized by the issuer.
[73 FR 10626, Feb. 27, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 81806, Dec. 29, 2011; 81 FR 83553, Nov. 21, 2016]
§ 239.701
[Reserved]
§ 239.800
Form CB, report of sales of securities in connection with an exchange offer or a rights offering.
This Form is used to report sales of securities in connection with a rights offering in reliance upon § 230.801 of
this chapter and to report sales of securities in connection with an exchange offer or business combination in reliance upon § 230.802 of this chapter.
[64 FR 61403, Nov. 10, 1999]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting Form CB, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 239.900
Form C.
This form shall be used for filings under Regulation Crowdfunding (part 227 of this chapter).
[80 FR 71550, Nov. 16, 2015]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
17 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
17 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter II
200 Technical correction
28484
200.30-3 (a)(27) and (29) removed; (a)(42) revised; (a)(85) added
65494
200.30-4 (a)(18) through (21) added
85513
200.30-5 (a)(9) added; eff. 6-14-21
57107
200.30-14 (f) through (o) redesignated as (g) through (p); new (f) added
12222
200.800 (b) table amended (OMB numbers)
26092
201.100—201.900 (Subpart D) Authority citation revised; eff. 4-6-20
6349
201.100—201.900 (Subpart D) Authority citation revised
86477
201.102 (d)(1), (2), and (4) revised; eff. 1-29-21
86477
201.140 (a) revised; eff. 1-29-21
86478
201.141 Nomenclature change; (b) amended; eff. 1-29-21
86478
201.150 Nomenclature change; (c) and (d) redesignated as (d) and (e); new (c) added; new (d) introductory text, new (4), and new (e) revised; eff. 1-29-21
86478
201.151 (a) and (d) revised; (e) added; eff. 1-29-21
86478
201.152 (d) removed; (a) through (c) redesignated as (b) through new (d); new (b) through new (d) revised; new (a) and (g) added; eff. 1-29-21
86478
201.152 (g) removed; eff. 7-12-21
86479
201.193 (a) through (f) redesignated as (b) through (g); Preliminary note and new (c) introductory text revised; eff. 1-29-21
86479
201.194 (c) redesignated as (c)(1); new (c) heading and (2) added; eff. 4-6-20
6349
201.322 (a) revised; (b) through (d) redesignated as (c) through (e); new (b) added; eff. 1-29-21
86480
201.351 Heading and (b) revised; (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added; eff. 1-29-21
86480
201.420 (e) revised; (f) added; eff. 1-29-21
86480
201.440 (d) revised; (e) added; eff. 1-29-21
86481
201.700 Heading, (b), (c)(1), (3), (4), and (d) revised
65495
201.701 Revised
65497
202.13 Added; eff. 6-14-21
57107
210.1-02 (w) revised
54059
210.2-01 Note removed; introductory text and (c)(1)(ii)(A)(
1
)(
v
) added; (c)(1)(ii)(A) introductory text, (
1
)(
iii
), (
iv
), (
iv
), (E), (2)(iii)(B)(
2
)(
i
), (C)(
3
)(
i
), (3), (6)(i)(A)(
1
), (B)(
1
), (e), (f)(4), (5)(iii), (f)(6), and (14) revised; eff. 6-9-21
80541
210.3-05 Revised
54060
210.3-06 Revised
54062
210.3-09 (a) revised
54062
210.3-10 Revised
21999
210.3-14 Revised
54062
210.3-16 Introductory text added
22000
210.3-18 (d) amended
54064
210.5-01 (a) amended
54064
210.6-01 Amended
54064
210.6-02 (b) and (c) amended
54064
210.6-03 Introductory text and (a) amended
54064
210.6-11 Added
54064
210.8-01 Note 3 and Note 4 revised
22000
210.8-01 Correction: (c) and (d) revised
53672
210.8-01 Revised
54065
210.8-03 (b)(6) and (7) added
22000
210.8-03 (b)(4) removed
54065
210.8-04 Revised
54065
210.8-05 Revised
54066
210.8-06 Revised
54066
210.9-01 Revised
66140
210.9-03 Amended
66140
210.10-01 (b)(9) and (10) added
22000
210.11-01 (a) introductory text, (1), and (2) amended; (a)(5) removed; (a)(6), (8), (b), and (c) revised
54066
210.11-02 Revised
54066
210.11-03 (a) introductory text, (2), and (d) amended
54069
210.13-01—210.13-02 Undesignated center heading added
22000
210.13-01 Added
22000
210.13-02 Added
22000
211 (Subpart A) Table amended
10570
227.202 (c) added (temporary)
17751
227.100 (b)(7) added (temporary)
27131
227.100 (b)(7) introductory text amended; eff. through 9-1-21
54490
227.100 Regulation at 85 FR 27131 eff. date extended
54483
227.201 (z) added (temporary)
27131
227.201 (z) introductory text amended; eff. through 9-1-21
54490
227.201 Regulation at 85 FR 27131 eff. date extended
54483
227.202 (c) added (temporary)
17751
227.301 (d) added (temporary)
27132
227.301 (d) amended; eff. through 9-1-21
54490
227.301 Regulation at 85 FR 27131 eff. date extended
54483
227.303 (g) added (temporary)
27132
227.303 (g)(1) introductory text and (2) amended; eff. through 9-1-21
54490
227.303 Regulation at 85 FR 27131 eff. date extended
54483
227.304 (e) added (temporary)
27132
227.304 (e) introductory text amended; eff. through 9-1-21
54490
227.304 Regulation at 85 FR 27131 eff. date extended
54483
229 Technical correction
19884
229.10 (f) amended; eff. 4-27-20
17241
229.101 (a) introductory text, (1), (c), and (h) introductory text revised; (a)(2) redesignated as (a)(3); new (a)(2) added
63759
229.103 Revised
63760
229.105 Revised
63761
229.404 Amended
66140
229.504 Amended
22002
229.601 (a) Exhibit table amended; (b)(22) added
22002
229.601 (b)(101)(i) introductory text, (C), (ii)(A), and (iii) revised
33351
229.801 (c) removed; eff. 1-1-23
66140
229.802 (c) removed; eff. 1-1-23
66140
229.1100 (c)(2)(ii)(C), (D), and (F) revised
22003
229.1112 (b)(2) revised
22003
229.1114 (b)(2)(ii) revised
22003
229.1115 (b)(2) revised
22003
229.1400—229.1406 (Subpart 229.1400) Added
66140
230 Technical correction
19884, 28484
230 Order
64233
230.134 (g) revised
33352
230.138 (a)(1) amended; (a)(1)(iii) added; (a)(2)(i) revised
33352
230.144 (c)(2) amended
68203
230.144A (a)(1)(i)(C) and (H) revised; (a)(1)(i)(I) amended; (a)(1)(i)(J) and note added
64276
230.156 (d) added
33352
230.159A (a)(2) revised
26093
230.163 (b)(3)(i) amended; (b)(3)(ii) revised; (b)(3)(iii) removed
33352
230.163A (b)(4) revised
33352
230.163B (c)(2) revised; (c)(2) note added
64276
230.164 (f) revised
33352
230.168 (b)(1) introductory text, (2) introductory text, and (d)(3) revised
33352
230.169 (d)(4) revised
33353
230.172 (d)(1) revised; (d)(2) removed; (d)(3) and (4) redesignated as (d)(2) and (3); new (d)(2) amended
33353
230.173 (f)(2) revised; (f)(3) removed; (f)(4) and (5) redesignated as new (f)(3) and (4); new (f)(3) amended
33353
230.215 Revised
64276
230.257 (b)(7) added
22004
230.257 (f) added (temporary)
17751
230.402 (e) revised
78228
230.405 Amended
33353, 54069
230.405 Amended; eff. 4-27-20
17241
230.415 (a)(1)(x), (xi), and (2) revised; (a)(1)(xiii) added
33354
230.418 (a)(3) introductory text revised
33354
230.424 (f) revised; (i) added
33354
230.430A (a)(2) revised
33354
230.430B (b) introductory text, (f)(4) introductory text, (ii), and (i) revised
33354
230.431 (a) introductory text revised
26093
230.433 (b)(1)(i), (iv), and (c)(1)(ii) revised
33355
230.456 (d) added; eff. 8-1-21
33355
230.457 (u) added; eff. 8-1-21
33356
230.462 (f) revised
33356
230.471 (b) revised
78228
230.482 (a) revised
26093
230.485 (c)(3) revised
26093
230.486 (a), (b) introductory text, (1)(iv), and (2) introductory text revised; (b)(1)(v) amended; (b)(1)(vi) redesignated as (b)(1)(vii); new (b)(1)(vi) and (g) added
33356
230.496 Revised
26093
230.497 (c), (e), and (k) revised; authority citation removed
26094
230.497 (c) and (e) amended; (k) heading and authority citation removed; (l) added
33356
230.497 Correction: (c) and (e) amended
45092
230.498 (c)(2) revised
26094
230.498A Added
26094
230.498A (b)(2)(v)(E), (F), and (c)(3)(v)(B) removed; eff. 1-1-22
26099
230.501 (a)(1), (3), (5) introductory text, and (6) revised; (a)(5) note, (8) note, (9), note, (10), note, (11) through (13), and (j) added; (a)(7) and (8) amended
64277
231 Authority citation added
10571
231 Table amended
10571
232 Technical correction
28484
232.10 (c) added (temporary)
17751
232.11 Amended
26099
232.11 Heading revised; section amended
33357
232.301 Revised
69500
232.301 Revised
78228
232.301 Revised
9365
232.302 (a) and (b) revised
78229
232.405 (b) heading added; Note redesignated as Note 2; introductory text, (a)(2), (3)(i) introductory text, (ii), (4), (b)(1) introductory text, (2), and new Note 2 revised
26099
232.405 Correction: Note redesignated as Note 1; introductory text and new Note 1 amended
39476
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2), (3)(i) introductory text, (ii), (4), and (b)(1) introductory text revised; (b) heading and (3) added; (b)(1) heading removed; note redesignated as note 2 and amended
33357
232.405 Correction: amended
45092
232.301 Revised
9365
239 Technical correction
28484
239 Regulation at 85 FR 27131 eff. date extended
54483
239.11 Form S-1 amended; eff. 8-1-21
33358
239.13 Form S-3 amended; eff. 8-1-21
33358
239.14 Form N-2 amended
33361, 54074, 83295
239.15 Removed
26100
239.15 Correction: Forms N-14 amended
39476
239.17a Form N-3 amended; Form N-4 revised; eff. in part 1-1-22
26204
239.17a Form N-3 revised
26110
239.17b Form N-6 revised
26204
239.17c Form N-6 amended; eff. 1-1-22
26309
239.18 Form S-11 amended
54070
239.23 Form N-14 amended
26100, 33359, 54070
239.25 Form S-4 amended
63761
239.31 (b) revised Form F-1 amended
22004
239.31 Form F-1 amended; eff. 8-1-21
33359
239.33 (a)(5) Note redesignated as (a)(5) Note 1 and revised; Form F-3 amended
22004
239.33 Form F-3 amended; eff. 8-1-21
33359
239.90 Form 1-A amended
22005, 54070
239.91 Form 1-K amended
22005
239.92 Form 1-SA amended
22006
239.900 Form C (temporary)
27133
239.900 Form C amended; eff. through 9-1-21
54490
2021
17 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter II
200.10 Revised
9441
200.11 (a)(2) revised
9441
200.13 (a), (d)(1), (e), and (f) revised
9441
200.13a (a) and (c) revised
9441
200.13b Revised
9442
200.14 (b) revised
9442
200.16 Removed
9442
200.17 Removed
9442
200.19c Revised
9442
200.19d Revised
9442
200.19e Added
9442
200.21 Revised
9442
200.21a (a) revised
9443
200.23a Revised
9443
200.24 Revised
9443
200.24a Revised
9443
200.26a Revised
9444
200.27 Amended
9444
200.30-1 Introductory text, (a)(3), (f)(5), and (g)(2) revised; (f)(2)(i) amended
9444=
200.30-1 (m) added
70043
200.30-2 Added
9444
200.30-3 Introductory text, (a)(47), and (l) revised; (a)(2), (15), (37), (40), (45), (48), (60), (67), (84), (b), and (c) removed; (a)(5), (8), (9), (43), and (49) amended; (a)(86) through (94) added
9444
200.30-3a Introductory text amended; (a)(2) through (14) added; (b) redesignated as (c); new (b) added
9445
200.30-3b Added
9446
200.30-5 Introductory text, (a)(4)(ii), (b-1)(1), (2), and (h)(2) amended; (h)(1) removed
9446
200.30-6 Introductory text amended; (e) revised
9446
200.30-7 Introductory text, (d), and (e) amended
9446
200.30-10 Introductory text, (a)(6), and (c) amended
9447
200.30-11 (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added; introductory text, (a)(4), (b)(2), and new (d) amended
9447
200.30-13 Introductory text and (c) amended
9447
200.30-14 Introductory text, (b), (h)(1)(iii), (i), and (l) amended
9447
200.30-15 Amended
9447
200.30-16 Removed
9447
200.30-18 Heading and introductory text revised; (b), (e) through (h), and (k)(2) removed; (m) redesignated as (n); new (m) added; (l)(1) and new (n) amended
9447
200.30-19 Added
7967
200.80 (a)(2) revised
47562
201 Technical correction
13645
202.3a (a), (b) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (i)(A), (ii), and (2) revised; existing note redesignated as note 1; (b) note 2 added; (d) amended
70197
210.1-02 (bb)(1) introductory text and (2) revised
2126
210.2-01 Correction: (c)(1)(ii)(A)(
1
) introductory text revised
8686
210.6-03 (d) revised
807
211 (Subpart B) Table amended
68111
227.100 (b)(7) revised; eff. through 3-1-23
3590
227.100 (a)(1), (2) introductory text, (i), (ii), and (d) revised; (e) added
3590
227.201 (z) redesignated as (aa) and revised; new (z) added; eff. through 9-1-21
3590
227.201 (bb) added; eff. through 3-1-23
3591
227.201 Introductory text revised; (x), (y), and instruction amended; (z) added
3591
227.203 (a)(1) revised
3591
227.204 (a) and (b)(1) revised; (d) added; instruction redesignated as (e) and revised
3592
227.206 Added
3592
227.301 (e) added; eff. through 3-1-23
3592
227.303 (g)(1)(i) and (iii) amended; eff. through 9-1-21
3592
227.304 (e)(2)(i) amended; eff. through 9-1-21
3592
227.503 (a) and (b)(3) revised; (a) instruction added
3592
227.504 Added
3593
229.10 (f) table amended
2126
229.301 Removed
2126
229.302 (a) revised
2126
229.303 Revised
2126
229.601 (b)(2)(ii) and (10)(iv) revised
3593
(a) table amended; (b)(107) added
70198
229.914 (a) revised
2128
229.1112 (b)(1) revised
2129
229.1114 (b)(2)(i) revised
2129
229.1115 (b)(1) revised
2129
230.111 Revised; eff. 5-31-22
70199
230.147 (g) revised; (h) removed
3594
230.147A (g) revised; (h) removed
3594
230.148 Added
3594
230.152 Revised
3595
230.155 Removed
3596
230.241 Added
3596
230.251 (a)(2), (b)(7), and (c) revised
3596
230.255 (e) removed
3596
230.259 (b) revised
3596
230.262 (a) and (b)(3) revised
3597
230.415 (a)(6) revised
70199
230.419 (f)(1) revised
2129
230.424 (g) and (i)(2) introductory text revised
70199
230.456 (b)(1)(ii) and (c)(1)(ii) revised
70199
230.457 (p) revised
70199
230.473 (c) revised
70200
230.500 (g) revised
3597
230.502 (a) and (b)(2)(i)(B) revised; (b)(2)(viii) added
3598
230.504 Heading and (b)(2) revised
3598
230.506 (b)(2)(i) revised; (c)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
), (C)(
4
), (D), and (A) through (D) amended; (c)(2)(ii)(E) added
3598
232.10 (b)(2) revised; (c) added
7972
232.10 (b) amended
25805
232.12 (c) revised
7972
232.13 (a)(3) and (c) note revised
70200
232.15 Added
7967
232.301 Revised
7972
232.301 Revised
25805, 40310, 55691
232.405 (c)(1)(iii)(C) added; eff. through 7-1-23
70043
232.405 (b)(3)(ii) revised
70200
232.408 Added
70200
239 Form ID amended
55692
239.11 Form S-1 amended
2129
239.11 Form S-1 amended
70200
239.13 Form S-3 amended
70204
239.14 Form N-2 amended
2134, 3603
239.14 Form N-2 amended
70262
239.15A Form N-1A amended
3603
239.16 Form S-6 amended
3599
239.16b Form S-8 amended
70208
239.17a Form N-3 amended
3604
239.17b Form N-4 amended
3604
239.17c Form N-6 amended
3604
239.18 Form S-11 amended
70210
239.20 Form S-20 amended
2130
239.23 Form N-14 amended
3599
239.23 Form N-14 revised
70214
239.24 Form N-5 amended
3603
239.25 Form S-4 amended
2130
239.25 Form S-4 amended
70223
239.31 Form F-1 amended
2130
239.31 Form F-1 amended
70228
239.33 Form F-3 amended
70231
239.34 Form F-4 amended
2130
239.34 Form F-4 amended
70236
239.40 Form F-10 amended
70240
239.44 Form SF-1 amended
70244
239.45 Form SF-3 amended
70247
239.63 Introductory text amended
25805
239.63 Form ID amended
25806
239.90 Form 1-A amended
3599
239.900 Form C amended
3600
2022
17 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter II
200 Authority citation added
77983
200.1—200.30-19 (Subpart A) Authority citation removed
77983
200.30-5 (c-1) introductory text and (1) revised; eff. 7-1-24
78807
200.40—200.43 (Subpart B) Authority citation removed
77983
200.50—200.72 (Subpart C) Authority citation removed
77983
200.80-200.83 (Subpart D) Authority citation removed
77983
200.110—200.114 (Subpart F) Authority citation removed
77983
200.200—200.205 (Subpart G) Authority citation removed
77983
200.301—200.313 (Subpart H) Authority citation removed
77983
200.400—200.410 (Subpart I) Authority citation removed
77983
200.500—200.511 (Subpart J) Authority citation removed
77983
200.550—200.554 (Subpart K) Authority citation removed
77983
200.601—200.699 (Subpart L) Authority citation removed
77983
200.735-1—200.735-18 (Subpart M) Authority citation removed
77983
200.400—200.410 (Subpart I) Authority citation removed
77983
200.500—200.511 (Subpart J) Authority citation removed
77983
200.550—200.554 (Subpart K) Authority citation removed
77983
200.601—200.699 (Subpart L) Authority citation removed
77983
200.735-1—200.735-18 (Subpart M) Authority citation removed
77983
200.800 (Subpart N) Authority citation removed
77983
211 (Subpart B) Table amended
21016
227.100 (a)(2)(i) and (ii) amended
57398
227.201 (t)(1), (2), and (3) amended
57398
227.201 CFR correction: (z) added
58957
229.402 (v) added
55193
229.402 (a)(1) revised; (c) and (n) amended; (w) added
73136
229.402 (x) Added
80427
229.404 Amended
73137
229.408 Added
80428
229.601 (a) table amended; (b)(97) added
73137
229.601 (a) table amended; (b)(19) added
80428
230.144 (h)(1) revised; (h)(2) redesignated as (h)(3); new (h)(2) added
35409
230.156 (b)(4) added
72846
230.158 (b)(2) revised
35409
230.405 Amended
57398
230.433 (c)(3) added
72846
230.482 (i) and (j) added
72846
232 Authority citation revised
38963, 78807
232.100 (b) amended
38964
232.101 (a)(1)(i), (iii), (c) heading, and introductory text revised; (a)(1)(xix) amended; (a)(1)(xxii) through (xxx) added; (b)(1) through (6), (9), (c)(6), and (8) removed
35409
232.101 (a)(1)(iv) and (d) revised; (a)(1)(xxi) amended; (a)(1)(xxii) and (xxiii) added
38964
232.101 (a)(1)(iii), (xxii), and (d) revised; eff. 7-1-24
78807
232.102 (a) introductory text amended
38964
232.201 (a) introductory text revised
38964
232.301 Revised
393
232.301 Revised
23110, 42962
232.301 Revised; incorporation by reference
61978
232.306 (a) amended; (b) and (c) revised
35410
232.311 (b) and (c) revised; (d) through (f) removed
35410
232.405 (b)(3)(iii) revised; eff. 4-15-22
22445
232.405 (b)(2)(iii), (iv), (3)(ii), (iii), and (4)(i) amended; (b)(2)(v), (3)(iv), and (4)(ii) added; (b)(3)(i)(C) removed
73138
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2), (4), (b)(1)(ii), (c) introductory text, (e) introductory text, and Note 1 revised
35410
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2), (4), (b)(1)(i), (ii), (3)(i)(A), and (B) amended; (b)(1)(iii), (3)(i)(C), and (4) added; Note 1 revised
55196
232.405 (b)(2)(i) revised
72847
232.405 (b)(4)(iii) added
80429
239 Authority citation revised
72847
239.14 Form N-2 amended; eff. 4-15-22
22446
239.14 Form N-2 amended; eff. 7-1-24
78809
239.15A Form N-1A amended; eff. 4-15-22
22446
239.15A Form N-1A amended; eff. 7-1-24
78809
239.15A Amended
72850
239.17a Form N-3 amended; eff. 4-15-22
22447
239.17a Form N-3 amended; eff. 7-1-24
78810
239.24 Form N-5 amended; eff. 4-15-22
22446
239.24 Form N-PX amended; eff. 4-15-22
22447
239.40 Form F-10 amended
35412
239.42 Form F-X amended
35412
239.64 Form SE amended
35412
239.144 (a) revised
35412
239.144 Form 144 amended
35412
239.800 Form CB amended
35414
239.900 Form C amended
57398
2023
17 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter II
200.30-3 (a)(95) through (102)added
87280
200.30-5 (b-1), (b-2), (1), (2), (b-3),(1), (2), (b-4), (1), (b-5), (1), (2), (c), (c-1), (d), (e), (f), and (g) redesignated as (c), (3), (i), (ii), (4), (i), (ii), (5), (i), (6), (i), (ii),(d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i); eff. 7-2-24
37987
200.30-14 (h)(4), (5), (7), and (8) revised
87281
200.301—200.312 (Subpart H) Revised
65811
201.100—201.900 (Subpart D) Authority citation revised
87282
201.101 (a)(9)(ix) added
87282
201.202 (a) revised
87282
201.210 (a) heading, (1), (b) heading, (1), and (c) introductorytext revised
87282
201.401 (f) added
87282
201.442 Added
87282
201.443 Added
87283
201.450 (a)(2)(iv) and (v) redesignated as (a)(2)(v) and (vi); new(a)(2)(iv) added
87283
201.460 (a)(4) added
87283
229.106 Added
51942
229.408 (d) added
36054
229.512 (a)(1)(ii) amended
37987
229.601 Correction: Table amended
20760
229.601 (a) table amended; (b)(26)Added
36055
229.601 (b)(101)(i)(C)(1) revised
51943
229.703 Revised
36056
230 Technical correction
0436
230.110 (c) revised
12209
230.192 Added
85464
230.482 CFR correction: (a)Amended
17710
230.485 (c)(3) revised
70507
230.497 (b) through (e) revised
70507
230.498 CFR correction: (f)(2)amended
17710
232 Technical correction
70436
232.11 CFR correction: amended
17710
232.11 Amended
70507
232.12 (c) revised
12209
232.13 (a)(4) revised
12209
232.13 (a)(4) revised; (a)(4) note redesignated as (a) Note 1
76981
232.101 (a)(1)(xxvii) revised; (c)(6) added
12209
232.101 (a)(1)(xxix) and (xxx) amended; (a)(1)(xxxi) added;eff. 5-5-23
13951
232.201 (a) introductory text amended
76981
232.301 Revised
24330, 45815, 67946
232.301 Revised
4085
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2),(4), (b)(4)(iii), and Note 1 revised; (b)(4)(iv) added
36057
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2),(3)(i) introductory text, (ii), (4), (b)(1) introductory text, and Note 1 revised; (b)(5) added; eff. 5-5-23
13951
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2), (3)(i) introductory text, (ii), (4),(b)(1) introductory text, (2) introductory text, (iv), and (v) revised; (b)(2)(vi) added; Note 1 amended
70508
232.405 (b)(4)(v) added
51943
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2),(3)(i) introductory text, (ii), (4),(5) introductory text, and Note 1 revised; (b)(5)(ii) added
87283
239 Technical correction
70436
239.13 (a)(3)(ii) revised; Form S-3Amended
51943
239.14 Form N-2 amended
37988, 70511
239.15A Form N-1A amended
51523,70511
239.16 Form S-6 amended
70509
239.23 Form N-14 amended
37988
239.144 (a) revised
12209
2024
17 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter II
200.11 (b) revised
101468
200.800 Revised
90585
210 Correction: (d) and (w)(1) introductory text amended
51823
210.1-02 (d) and (w)(1) revised; eff.7-1-24
14313
210.3-01 (a) revised; eff. 7-1-24
14313
210.3-05 (b)(4)(ii) revised; eff. 7-1-24
14313
210.3-14 (b)(3)(ii) revised; eff. 7-1-24
14314
210.8-01 (b) revised; eff. 5-28-24
21912
210.8-01 Regulation at 89 FR 21912 delayed indefinitely
25804
210.8-02 Revised; eff. 7-1-24
14314
210.10-01 (a)(1) revised; eff. 7-1-24
14314
210.14-01—210.14-02 Undesignatedcenter heading added; eff. 5-28-24
21912
210.14-01 Added; eff. 5-28-24
21912
210.14-01 Regulation at 89 FR 21912 delayed indefinitely
25804
210.14-02 Added; eff. 5-28-24
21912
210.14-02 Regulation at 89 FR 21912 delayed indefinitely
25804
210.15-01 Undesignated centerheading added; eff. 7-1-24
14314
229.10 (b) revised; (f)(2)(iv) added;eff. 7-1-24
14315
229.408 (d) removed; eff. 4-8-24
24373
229.601 (a) table amended; (b)(27) added; eff. 5-28-24
21914
229.601 (a) table amended; (a)(26) and (b)(26) removed; eff. 4-8-24
24373
229.601 Regulation at 89 FR 21914 delayed indefinitely
25804
229.601 (a) table, (b)(101)(i)(B), and(C)(2) amended; (b)(98) and (101)(i)(D) added; eff. 7-1-24
14316
229.703 Revised; eff. 4-8-24
24373
229.1500—229.1508 (Subpart 229.1500) Added; eff. 5-28-24
21914
229.1500 Regulation at 89 FR 21914 delayed indefinitely
25804
229.1601—229.1610 (Subpart 229.1600) Added; eff. 7-1-24
14316
230.145a Added; eff. 7-1-24
14321
230.156 Revised
60082
230.172 (d) revised
60083
230.405 Amended
60083
230.405 Amended; eff. 7-1-24
14321
230.415 (b) revised
60083
230.424 (f) revised
60083
230.433 (b)(1) revised
60083
230.436 (i) added; eff. 5-28-24
21919
230.436 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
230.456 (e) added
60083
230.457 (u) revised
60084
230.482 (b)(4) revised
90590
230.485 Heading, (a)(1), and (b) introductory text revised
60084
230.497 Heading, (c), and (e) revised
60085
230.498A Revised
60085
232.10 (b) and note revised; (d) added; eff. 3-24-25
106222
232.11 Amended; eff. 3-24-25
106222
232.301 Revised
4546
232.301 Revised
28608, 65180, 84281
232.301 Revised; eff. 3-24-25
106223
232.313 (a) and (b) revised
60090
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2),(4), and Note 1 revised; (b)(4)(i) amended; (b)(4)(vi) added; eff.7-1-24
14321
232.405 (b)(4)(vi) and (vii) added;eff. 5-28-24
21919
232.405 Introductory text, (a)(2), (4), (b)(4)(iii), and Note 1 revised; (b)(4)(iv) removed; eff. 4-8-24
24374
232.405 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
232.405 (a)(3), (b)(1), (2), and Note 1 revised
60090
239.11 Form S-1 amended; eff. 7-1-24
14323
239.11 Form S-1 amended; eff. 5-28-24
21919
239.11 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
239.11A Form N-1A amended
90591
239.13 Form S-3 amended; eff. 5-28-24
21919
239.13 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
239.14 Form N-2A amended
90591
239.15A Form N-1A amended
90591
239.17a Form N-3 revised
60091
239.17b Form N-4 revised
60091
239.17c Form N-6 revised
60092
239.18 Form S-11 amended; eff. 5-28-24
21919
239.18 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
239.25 Form S-4 amended; eff. 7-1-24
14323
239.25 Form S-4 amended; eff. 5-28-24
21919
239.25 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
239.31 Form F-1 amended; eff. 7-1-24
14323
239.33 Form F-3 amended; eff. 5-28-24
21919
239.33 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
239.34 Form F-4 amended; eff. 7-1-24
14323
239.34 Form F-4 amended; eff. 5-28-24
21919
239.34 Regulation at 89 FR 21919 delayed indefinitely
25804
239.63 Revised; Form ID amended; eff. 3-24-25
106223
239.66 Form 24F-2 revised
60092
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
17 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter II
200 Authority citation revised
9685
200.30-1 (f)(4) amended
9685
200.30-4 (a)(13) removed
12106
200.82a Removed
9685
200.800 (b) table amended
9685
202.3 (b)(2) and (3) revised
7359
210.4-08 (d) and (h)(1) revised; (n) amended
9687
210.4-10 (a)(7)(i) revised; (c)(4)(i)(B), (D), (6)(iii)(A), (iv)(C), and (7)(ii) amended
9687
210.7-03 (a)13 revised
9687
210.9-03 Amended
9687
211 Authority citation amended
8492
211 (Subpart B) Table amended
8492
229.601 (b)(4) heading amended
9687
230 Compliance date extended
13076
230.501 (i)(1)(ii) and (iii) amended
9687
232 Compliance date extended
13076
232.100 (c) revised
7359
232.101 (a)(1)(xxxii), (xxxiii), (xxxiv), (xxxv), (xxxvi), (xxxvii), and (xxxviii) added; (c)(9) and (d) revised
7359
232.201 (a) introductory text revised
7359
232.202 (a) introductory text revised
7360
232.301 Revised
8494
232.405 Introductory text, (a), (b)(1) introductory text, (5), and Note 1 revised
7360
239 Compliance date extended
13076
239.13 (d)(1)(iii)(B) and Form S-3 amended
9688
239.18 Form S-11 amended
9688
239.25 Form S-4 amended
9688
239.31 Form F-1 amended
9688
239.33 Form F-3 amended
9688
239.34 Form F-4 amended
9688
239.36 Form F-6 amended
9688
239.41 Form F-80 amended
9688
239.44 Form SF-1 amended
9688
239.90 Form 1-A amended
9688
239.91 Form 1-K amended
9689
239.93 Form 1-U amended
9689
239.900 Form C amended
9689
○
