Except as provided by 8 CFR 212.7(e), an applicant for an immigrant visa, adjustment of status, or a K or V nonimmigrant visa who is inadmissible under any provision of section 212(a) of the Act for which a waiver is available under section 212 of the Act may apply for the related waiver by filing the form designated by USCIS, with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2, and in accordance with the form instructions. Certain immigrants may apply for a provisional unlawful presence waiver of inadmissibility as specified in 8 CFR 212.7(e).
(2)
Termination of application for lack of prosecution.
An applicant may withdraw the application at any time prior to the final decision, whereupon the case will be closed and the consulate notified. If the applicant fails to prosecute the application within a reasonable time either before or after interview the applicant shall be notified that if he or she fails to prosecute the application within 30 days the case will be closed subject to being reopened at the applicant's request. If no action has been taken within the 30-day period immediately thereafter, the case will be closed and the appropriate consul notified.
(3)
Decision.
If the waiver application is denied, USCIS will provide a written decision and notify the applicant and his or her attorney or accredited representative and will advise the applicant of appeal procedures, if any, in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3. The denial of a provisional unlawful presence waiver is governed by 8 CFR 212.7(e).
(4)
Validity.
(i) A provisional unlawful presence waiver granted according to
paragraph (e) of this section is valid subject to the terms and conditions as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. In any other case, approval of an immigrant waiver of inadmissibility under this section applies only to the grounds of inadmissibility, and the related crimes, events, or incidents that are specified in the application for waiver.
(ii) Except for K-1 and K-2 nonimmigrants and aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence on a conditional basis, an immigrant waiver of inadmissibility is valid indefinitely, even if the applicant later abandons or otherwise loses lawful permanent resident status.
(iii) For a K-1 or K-2 nonimmigrant, approval of the waiver is conditioned on the K-1 nonimmigrant marrying the petitioner; if the K-1 nonimmigrant marries the K nonimmigrant petitioner, the waiver becomes valid indefinitely, subject to paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section, even if the applicant later abandons or otherwise loses lawful permanent resident status. If the K-1 does not marry the K nonimmigrant petitioner, the K-1 and K-2 nonimmigrants remain inadmissible for purposes of any application for a benefit on any basis other than the proposed marriage between the K-1 and the K nonimmigrant petitioner.
(iv) For an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence on a conditional basis under section 216 of the Act, removal of the conditions on the alien's status renders the waiver valid indefinitely, even if the applicant later abandons or otherwise loses lawful permanent resident status. Termination of the alien's status as an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence on a conditional basis also terminates the validity of a waiver of inadmissibility based on sections 212(h) or 212(i) of the Act that was granted to the alien. Separate notification of the termination of the waiver is not required when an alien is notified of the termination of residence under section 216 of the Act, and no appeal will lie from the decision to terminate the waiver on this basis. If the alien challenges the termination in removal proceedings, and the removal proceedings end in the restoration of the alien's status, the waiver will become effective again.
(v) Nothing in this subsection precludes USCIS from reopening and reconsidering a decision if the decision is determined to have been made in error.
(b)
Section 212(g) waivers for certain medical conditions
—(1)
Application.
Any alien who is inadmissible under section 212(a)(1)(A)(i), (ii), or (iii) of the Act and who is eligible for a waiver under section 212(g) of the Act may file an application as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The family member specified in section 212(g) of the Act may file the waiver application for the applicant if the applicant is incompetent to file the waiver personally.
(2)
Section 212(a) (1) or (3) (certain mental conditions)
—(i)
Arrangements for submission of medical report.
If the alien is excludable under section 212(a)(1)(A)(iii) of the Act he or his sponsoring family member shall submit a waiver request with a statement that arrangements have been made for the submission to that office of a medical report. The medical report shall contain a complete medical history of the alien, including details of any hospitalization or institutional care or treatment for any physical or mental condition; findings as to the current physical condition of the alien, including reports of chest X-ray examination and of serologic test for syphilis if the alien is 15 years of age or over, and other pertinent diagnostic tests; and findings as to the current mental condition of the alien, with information as to prognosis and life expectancy and with a report of a psychiatric examination conducted by a psychiatrist who shall, in case of mental retardation, also provide an evaluation of the alien's intelligence. For an alien with a past history of mental illness, the medical report shall also contain available information on which the U.S. Public Health Service can base a finding as to whether the alien has been free of such mental illness for a period of time sufficient in the light of such history to demonstrate recovery.
(ii)
Submission of statement.
Upon being notified that the medical report has been reviewed by the U.S. Public Health Service and determined to be acceptable, the alien or the alien's
sponsoring family member shall submit a statement to the consular or Service office. The statement must be from a clinic, hospital, institution, specialized facility, or specialist in the United States approved by the U.S. Public Health Service. The alien or alien's sponsor may be referred to the mental retardation or mental health agency of the state of proposed residence for guidance in selecting a post-arrival medical examining authority who will complete the evaluation and provide an evaluation report to the Centers for Disease Control. The statement must specify the name and address of the specialized facility, or specialist, and must affirm that:
(A) The specified facility or specialist agrees to evaluate the alien's mental status and prepare a complete report of the findings of such evaluation.
(B) The alien, the alien's sponsoring family member, or another responsible person has made complete financial arrangements for payment of any charges that may be incurred after arrival for studies, care, training and service;
(C) The Director, Division of Quarantine, Center for Prevention Services, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, GA. 30333 shall be furnished:
(
1
) The report evaluating the alien's mental status within 30 days after the alien's arrival; and
(
2
) Prompt notification of the alien's failure to report to the facility or specialist within 30 days after being notified by the U.S. Public Health Service that the alien has arrived in the United States.
(D) The alien shall be in an outpatient, inpatient, study, or other specified status as determined by the responsible local physician or specialist during the initial evaluation.
(3)
Assurances: Bonds.
In all cases under paragraph (b) of this section the alien or his or her sponsoring family member shall also submit an assurance that the alien will comply with any special travel requirements as may be specified by the U.S. Public Health Service and that, upon the admission of the alien into the United States, he or she will proceed directly to the facility or specialist specified for the initial evaluation, and will submit to such further examinations or treatment as may be required, whether in an outpatient, inpatient, or other status. The alien, his or her sponsoring family member, or other responsible person shall provide such assurances or bond as may be required to assure that the necessary expenses of the alien will be met and that he or she will not become a public charge. For procedures relating to cancellation or breaching of bonds, see part 103 of this chapter.
(c)
Section 212(e).
(1) An alien who was admitted to the United States as an exchange visitor, or who acquired that status after admission, is subject to the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act if his or her participation in an exchange program was financed in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by a United States government agency or by the government of the country of his or her nationality or last foreign residence.
(2) An alien is also subject to the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act if at the time of admission to the United States as an exchange visitor or at the time of acquisition of exchange visitor status after admission to the United States, the alien was a national or lawful permanent resident of a country which the Director of the United States Information Agency had designated, through public notice in the
Federal Register,
as clearly requiring the services of persons engaged in the field of specialized knowledge or skill in which the alien was to engage in his or her exchange visitor program.
(3) An alien is also subject to the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act if he or she was admitted to the United States as an exchange visitor on or after January 10, 1977 to receive graduate medical education or training, or following admission, acquired such status on or after that date for that purpose. However, an exchange visitor already participating in an exchange program of graduate medical education or training as of January 9, 1977 who was not then subject to the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) and who proceeds or has proceeded abroad temporarily and is returning to the United States to participate in the same program,
continues to be exempt from the foreign residence requirement.
(4) A spouse or child admitted to the United States or accorded status under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act to accompany or follow to join an exchange visitor who is subject to the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act is also subject to that requirement.
(5) An alien who is subject to the foreign residence requirement and who believes that compliance therewith would impose exceptional hardship upon his/her spouse or child who is a citizen of the United States or a lawful permanent resident alien, or that he or she cannot return to the country of his or her nationality or last residence because he or she will be subject to persecution on account of race, religion, or political opinion, may apply for a waiver on the form designated by USCIS. The alien's spouse and minor children, if also subject to the foreign residence requirement, may be included in the application, provided the spouse has not been a participant in an exchange program.
(6) Each application based upon a claim to exceptional hardship must be accompanied by the certificate of marriage between the applicant and his or her spouse and proof of legal termination of all previous marriages of the applicant and spouse; the birth certificate of any child who is a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident alien, if the application is based upon a claim of exceptional hardship to a child, and evidence of the United States citizenship of the applicant's spouse or child, when the application is based upon a claim of exceptional hardship to a spouse or child who is a citizen of the United States.
(7) Evidence of United States citizenship and of status as a lawful permanent resident shall be in the form provided in part 204 of this chapter. An application based upon exceptional hardship shall be supported by a statement, dated and signed by the applicant, giving a detailed explanation of the basis for his or her belief that his or her compliance with the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act, as amended, would impose exceptional hardship upon his or her spouse or child who is a citizen of the United States or a lawful permanent resident thereof. The statement shall include all pertinent information concerning the incomes and savings of the applicant and spouse. If exceptional hardship is claimed upon medical grounds, the applicant shall submit a medical certificate from a qualified physician setting forth in terms understandable to a layman the nature and effect of the illness and prognosis as to the period of time the spouse or child will require care or treatment.
(8) An application based upon the applicant's belief that he or she cannot return to the country of his or her nationality or last residence because the applicant would be subject to persecution on account of race, religion, or political opinion, must be supported by a statement, dated and signed by the applicant, setting forth in detail why the applicant believes he or she would be subject to persecution.
(9)
Waivers under Pub. L. 103-416 based on a request by a State Department of Public Health (or equivalent).
In accordance with section 220 of Pub. L. 103-416, an alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act, or who acquired status under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act after admission to the United States, to participate in an exchange program of graduate medical education or training (as of January 9, 1977), may apply for a waiver of the 2-year home country residence and physical presence requirement (the “2-year requirement”) under section 212(e)(iii) of the Act based on a request by a State Department of Public Health, or its equivalent. To initiate the application for a waiver under Pub. L. 103-416, the Department of Public Health, or its equivalent, or the State in which the foreign medical graduate seeks to practice medicine, must request the Director of USIA to recommend a waiver to the Service. The waiver may be granted only if the Director of USIA provides the Service with a favorable waiver recommendation. Only the Service, however, may grant or deny the waiver application. If granted, such a waiver shall be subject to the terms and conditions imposed under section 214(l) of the Act (as redesignated by
section 671(a)(3)(A) of Pub. L. 104-208). Although the alien is not required to submit a separate waiver application to the Service, the burden rests on the alien to establish eligibility for the waiver. If the Service approves a waiver request made under Pub. L. 103-416, the foreign medical graduate (and accompanying dependents) may apply for change of nonimmigrant status, from J-1 to H-1B and, in the case of dependents of such a foreign medical graduate, from J-2 to H-4. Aliens receiving waivers under section 220 of Pub. L. 103-416 are subject, in all cases, to the provisions of section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act.
(i)
Eligiblity criteria.
J-1 foreign medical graduates (with accompanying J-2 dependents) are eligible to apply for a waiver of the 2-year requirement under Pub. L. 103-416 based on a request by a State Department of Public Health (or its equivalent) if:
(A) They were admitted to the United States under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act, or acquired J nonimmigrant status before June 1, 2002, to pursue graduate medical education or training in the United States.
(B) They have entered into a bona fide, full-time employment contract for 3 years to practice medicine at a health care facility located in an area or areas designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services as having a shortage of health care professionals (“HHS-designated shortage area”);
(C) They agree to commence employment within 90 days of receipt of the waiver under this section and agree to practice medicine for 3 years at the facility named in the waiver application and only in HHS-designated shortage areas. The health care facility named in the waiver application may be operated by:
(
1
) An agency of the Government of the United States or of the State in which it is located; or
(
2
) A charitable, educational, or other not-for-profit organization; or
(
3
) Private medical practitioners.
(D) The Department of Public Health, or its equivalent, in the State where the health care facility is located has requested the Director, USIA, to recommend the waiver, and the Director, USIA, submits a favorable waiver recommendation to the Service; and
(E) Approval of the waiver will not cause the number of waivers granted pursuant to Pub. L. 103-416 and this section to foreign medical graduates who will practice medicine in the same state to exceed 20 during the current fiscal year.
(ii)
Decision on waivers under Pub. L. 103-416 and notification to the alien
—(A)
Approval.
If the Director of USIA submits a favorable waiver recommendation on behalf of a foreign medical graduate pursuant to Pub. L. 103-416, and the Service grants the waiver, the alien shall be notified of the approval on Form I-797 (or I-797A or I-797B, as appropriate). The approval notice shall clearly state the terms and conditions imposed on the waiver, and the Service's records shall be noted accordingly.
(B)
Denial.
If the Director of USIA issues a favorable waiver recommendation under Pub. L. 103-416 and the Service denies the waiver, the alien shall be notified of the decision and of the right to appeal under 8 CFR part 103. However, no appeal shall lie where the basis for denial is that the number of waivers granted to the State in which the foreign medical graduate will be employed would exceed 20 for that fiscal year.
(iii)
Conditions.
The foreign medical graduate must agree to commence employment for the health care facility specified in the waiver application within 90 days of receipt of the waiver under Pub. L. 103-416. The foreign medical graduate may only fulfill the requisite 3-year employment contract as an H-1B nonimmigrant. A foreign medical graduate who receives a waiver under Pub. L. 103-416 based on a request by a State Department of Public Health (or equivalent), and changes his or her nonimmigrant classification from J-1 to H-1B, may not apply for permanent residence or for any other change of nonimmigrant classification unless he or she has fulfilled the 3-year employment contract with the health care facility and in the specified HHS-designated shortage area named in the waiver application.
(iv)
Failure to fulfill the three-year employment contract due to extenuating circumstances.
A foreign medical graduate who fails to meet the terms and conditions imposed on the waiver under section 214(l) of the Act and this paragraph will once again become subject to the 2-year requirement under section 212(e) of the Act.
Under section 214(l)(1)(B) of the Act, however, the Service, in the exercise of discretion, may excuse early termination of the foreign medical graduate's 3-year period of employment with the health care facility named in the waiver application due to extenuating circumstances. Extenuating circumstances may include, but are not limited to, closure of the health care facility or hardship to the alien. In determining whether to excuse such early termination of employment, the Service shall base its decision on the specific facts of each case. In all cases, the burden of establishing eligibility for a favorable exercise of discretion rests with the foreign medical graduate. Depending on the circumstances, closure of the health care facility named in the waiver application may, but need not, be considered an extenuating circumstance excusing early termination of employment. Under no circumstances will a foreign medical graduate be eligible to apply for change of status to another nonimmigrant category, for an immigrant visa or for status as a lawful permanent resident prior to completing the requisite 3-year period of employment for a health care facility located in an HHS-designated shortage area.
(v)
Required evidence.
A foreign medical graduate who seeks to have early termination of employment excused due to extenuating circumstances shall submit documentary evidence establishing such a claim. In all cases, the foreign medical graduate shall submit an employment contract with another health care facility located in an HHS-designated shortage area for the balance of the required 3-year period of employment. A foreign medical graduate claiming extenuating circumstances based on hardship shall also submit evidence establishing that such hardship was caused by unforeseen circumstances beyond his or her control. A foreign medical graduate claiming extenuating circumstances based on closure of the health care facility named in the waiver application shall also submit evidence that the facility has closed or is about to be closed.
(vi)
Notification requirements.
A J-1 foreign medical graduate who has been granted a waiver of the 2-year requirement pursuant to Pub. L. 103-416, is required to comply with the terms and conditions specified in section 214(l) of the Act and the implementing regulations in this section. If the foreign medical graduate subsequently applies for and receives H-1B status, he or she must also comply with the terms and conditions of that nonimmigrant status. Such compliance shall also include notifying USCIS of any material change in the terms and conditions of the H-1B employment, by filing either an amended or a new H-1B petition, as required, under §§ 214.2(h)(2)(i)(D), 214.2(h)(2)(i)(E), and 214.2(h)(11) of this chapter.
(A)
Amended H-1B petitions.
The health care facility named in the waiver application and H-1B petition shall file an amended H-1B petition, as required under § 214.2(h)(2)(i)(E) of this chapter, if there are any material changes in the terms and conditions of the beneficiary's employment or eligibility as specified in the waiver application filed under Pub. L. 103-416 and in the subsequent H-1B petition. In such a case, an amended H-1B petition shall be accompanied by evidence that the alien will continue practicing medicine with the original employer in an HHS-designated shortage area.
(B)
New H-1B petitions.
A health care facility seeking to employ a foreign medical graduate who has been granted a waiver under Pub. L. 103-416 (prior to the time the alien has completed his or her 3-year contract with the facility named in the waiver application and original H-1B petition), shall file a new H-1B petition, as required under §§ 214.2(h)(2)(i) (D) and (E) of this chapter. Although a new waiver application need not be filed, the new H-1B petition shall be accompanied by the documentary evidence generally required under § 214.2(h) of this chapter, and the following additional documents:
(
1
) A copy of the USCIS approval notice relating to the waiver and nonimmigrant H status granted under Pub. L. 103-416;
(
2
) An explanation from the foreign medical graduate, with supporting evidence, establishing that extenuating circumstances necessitate a change in employment;
(
3
) An employment contract establishing that the foreign medical graduate will practice medicine at the health care facility named in the new H-1B petition for the balance of the required 3-year period; and
(
4
) Evidence that the geographic area or areas of intended employment indicated in the new H-1B petition are in HHS-designated shortage areas.
(C)
Review of amended and new H-1B petitions for foreign medical graduates granted waivers under Pub. L. 103-416 and who seek to have early termination of employment excused due to extenuating circumstances
—(
1
)
Amended H-1B petitions.
The waiver granted under Pub. L. 103-416 may be affirmed, and the amended H-1B petition may be approved, if the petitioning health care facility establishes that the foreign medical graduate otherwise remains eligible for H-1B classification and that he or she will continue practicing medicine in an HHS-designated shortage area.
(
2
)
New H-1B petitions.
The Service shall review a new H-1B petition filed on behalf of a foreign medical graduate who has not yet fulfilled the required 3-year period of employment with the health care facility named in the waiver application and in the original H-1B petition to determine whether extenuating circumstances exist which warrant a change in employment, and whether the waiver granted under Pub. L. 103-416 should be affirmed. In conducting such a review, the Service shall determine whether the foreign medical graduate will continue practicing medicine in an HHS-designated shortage area, and whether the new H-1B petitioner and the foreign medical graduate have satisfied the remaining H-1B eligibility criteria described under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act and § 214.2(h) of this chapter. If these criteria have been satisfied, the waiver granted to the foreign medical graduate under Pub. L. 103-416 may be affirmed, and the new H1-B petition may be approved in the exercise of discretion, thereby permitting the foreign medical graduate to serve the balance of the requisite 3-year employment period at the health care facility named in the new H-1B petition.
(D)
Failure to notify the Service of any material changes in employment.
Foreign medical graduates who have been granted a waiver of the 2-year requirement and who have obtained H-1B status under Pub. L. 103-416 but fail to: Properly notify the Service of any material change in the terms and conditions of their H-1B employment, by having their employer file an amended or a new H-1B petition in accordance with this section and § 214.2(h) of this chapter; or establish continued eligibility for the waiver and H-1B status, shall (together with their dependents) again become subject to the 2-year requirement. Such foreign medical graduates and their accompanying H-4 dependents also become subject to deportation under section 241(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(10) The applicant and his or her spouse may be interviewed by an immigration officer in connection with the application and consultation may be had with the Director, United States Information Agency and the sponsor of any exchange program in which the applicant has been a participant.
(11) The applicant shall be notified of the decision, and if the application is denied, of the reasons therefor and of the right of appeal in accordance with the provisions of part 103 of this chapter. However, no appeal shall lie from the denial of an application for lack of a favorable recommendation from the Secretary of State. When an interested United States Government agency requests a waiver of the two-year foreign-residence requirement and the Director, United States Information Agency had made a favorable recommendation, the interested agency shall be notified of the decision on its request and, if the request is denied, of the reasons thereof, and of the right of appeal. If the foreign country of the alien's nationality or last residence has furnished statement in writing that it
has no objection to his/her being granted a waiver of the foreign residence requirement and the Director, United States Information Agency has made a favorable recommendation, the Director shall be notified of the decision and, if the foreign residence requirement is not waived, of the reasons therefor and of the foregoing right of appeal. However, this “no objection” provision is not applicable to the exchange visitor admitted to the United States on or after January 10, 1977 to receive graduate medical education or training, or who acquired such status on or after that date for such purpose; except that the alien who commenced a program before January 10, 1977 and who was readmitted to the United States on or after that date to continue participation in the same program, is eligible for the “no objection” waiver.
(d)
Criminal grounds of inadmissibility involving violent or dangerous crimes.
The Attorney General, in general, will not favorably exercise discretion under section 212(h)(2) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(h)(2)) to consent to an application or reapplication for a visa, or admission to the United States, or adjustment of status, with respect to immigrant aliens who are inadmissible under section 212(a)(2) of the Act in cases involving violent or dangerous crimes, except in extraordinary circumstances, such as those involving national security or foreign policy considerations, or cases in which an alien clearly demonstrates that the denial of the application for adjustment of status or an immigrant visa or admission as an immigrant would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship. Moreover, depending on the gravity of the alien's underlying criminal offense, a showing of extraordinary circumstances might still be insufficient to warrant a favorable exercise of discretion under section 212(h)(2) of the Act.
(e)
Provisional unlawful presence waivers of inadmissibility.
The provisions of this paragraph (e) apply to certain aliens who are pursuing consular immigrant visa processing.
(1)
Jurisdiction.
USCIS has exclusive jurisdiction to grant a provisional unlawful presence waiver under this paragraph (e). An alien applying for a provisional unlawful presence waiver must file with USCIS the form designated by USCIS, with the fees prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2, and in accordance with the form instructions.
(2)
Provisional unlawful presence waiver; in general.
(i) USCIS may adjudicate applications for a provisional unlawful presence waiver of inadmissibility based on section 212(a)(9)(B)(v) of the Act filed by eligible aliens described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. USCIS will only approve such provisional unlawful presence waiver applications in accordance with the conditions outlined in paragraph (e) of this section. Consistent with section 212(a)(9)(B)(v) of the Act, the decision whether to approve a provisional unlawful presence waiver application is discretionary. A pending or approved provisional unlawful presence waiver does not constitute a grant of a lawful immigration status or a period of stay authorized by the Secretary.
(ii) A pending or an approved provisional unlawful presence waiver does not support the filing of any application for interim immigration benefits, such as employment authorization or an advance parole document. Any application for an advance parole document or employment authorization that is submitted in connection with a provisional unlawful presence waiver application will be rejected.
(3)
Eligible aliens.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, an alien may be eligible to apply for and receive a provisional unlawful presence waiver for the grounds of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B)(i)(I) or (II) of the Act if he or she meets the requirements in this paragraph. An alien may be eligible to apply for and receive a waiver if he or she:
(i) Is present in the United States at the time of filing the application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver;
(ii) Provides biometrics to USCIS at a location in the United States designated by USCIS;
(iii) Upon departure, would be inadmissible only under section 212(a)(9)(B)(i) of the Act at the time of the immigrant visa interview;
(iv) Has a case pending with the Department of State, based on:
(A) An approved immigrant visa petition, for which the Department of State immigrant visa processing fee has been paid; or
(B) Selection by the Department of State to participate in the Diversity Visa Program under section 203(c) of the Act for the fiscal year for which the alien registered;
(v) Will depart from the United States to obtain the immigrant visa; and
(vi) Meets the requirements for a waiver provided in section 212(a)(9)(B)(v) of the Act.
(4)
Ineligible aliens.
Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(3) of this section, an alien is ineligible for a provisional unlawful presence waiver under paragraph (e) of this section if:
(i) The alien is under the age of 17;
(ii) The alien does not have a case pending with the Department of State, based on:
(A) An approved immigrant visa petition, for which the Department of State immigrant visa processing fee has been paid; or
(B) Selection by the Department of State to participate in the Diversity Visa program under section 203(c) of the Act for the fiscal year for which the alien registered;
(iii) The alien is in removal proceedings, in which no final order has been entered, unless the removal proceedings are administratively closed and have not been recalendared at the time of filing the application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver;
(iv) The alien is subject to an administratively final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion under any provision of law (including an
in absentia
order under section 240(b)(5) of the Act), unless the alien has already filed and USCIS has already granted, before the alien applies for a provisional unlawful presence waiver under 8 CFR 212.7(e), an application for consent to reapply for admission under section 212(a)(9)(A)(iii) of the Act and 8 CFR 212.2(j);
(v) CBP or ICE, after service of notice under 8 CFR 241.8, has reinstated a prior order of removal under section 241(a)(5) of the Act, either before the filing of the provisional unlawful presence waiver application or while the provisional unlawful presence waiver application is pending; or
(vi) The alien has a pending application with USCIS for lawful permanent resident status.
(5)
Filing.
(i) An alien must file an application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver of the unlawful presence inadmissibility bars under section 212(a)(9)(B)(i)(I) or (II) of the Act on the form designated by USCIS, in accordance with the form instructions, with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2, and with the evidence required by the form instructions.
(ii) An application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver will be rejected and the fee and package returned to the alien if the alien:
(A) Fails to pay the required filing fee or correct filing fee for the provisional unlawful presence waiver application;
(B) Fails to sign the provisional unlawful presence waiver application;
(C) Fails to provide his or her family name, domestic home address, and date of birth;
(D) Is under the age of 17;
(E) Does not include evidence of:
(
1
) An approved immigrant visa petition;
(
2
) Selection by the Department of State to participate in the Diversity Visa Program under section 203(c) of the Act for the fiscal year for which the alien registered; or
(
3
) Eligibility as a derivative beneficiary of an approved immigrant visa petition or of an alien selected for participation in the Diversity Visa Program as provided in this section and outlined in section 203(d) of the Act.
(F) Fails to include documentation evidencing:
(
1
) That the alien has paid the immigrant visa processing fee to the Department of State for the immigrant visa application upon which the alien's approved immigrant visa petition is based; or
(
2
) In the case of a diversity immigrant, that the Department of State selected the alien to participate in the Diversity Visa Program for the fiscal year for which the alien registered.
(6)
Biometrics.
(i) All aliens who apply for a provisional unlawful presence
waiver under this section will be required to provide biometrics in accordance with 8 CFR 103.16 and 103.17, as specified on the form instructions.
(ii)
Failure to appear for biometric services.
If an alien fails to appear for a biometric services appointment or fails to provide biometrics in the United States as directed by USCIS, a provisional unlawful presence waiver application will be considered abandoned and denied under 8 CFR 103.2(b)(13). The alien may not appeal or file a motion to reopen or reconsider an abandonment denial under 8 CFR 103.5.
(7)
Burden and standard of proof.
The alien has the burden to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, eligibility for a provisional unlawful presence waiver as described in this paragraph, and under section 212(a)(9)(B)(v) of the Act, including that the alien merits a favorable exercise of discretion.
(8)
Adjudication.
USCIS will adjudicate a provisional unlawful presence waiver application in accordance with this paragraph and section 212(a)(9)(B)(v) of the Act. If USCIS finds that the alien is not eligible for a provisional unlawful presence waiver, or if USCIS determines in its discretion that a waiver is not warranted, USCIS will deny the waiver application. Notwithstanding 8 CFR 103.2(b)(16), USCIS may deny an application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver without prior issuance of a request for evidence or notice of intent to deny.
(9)
Notice of decision.
(i) USCIS will notify the alien and the alien's attorney of record or accredited representative of the decision in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(b)(19). USCIS may notify the Department of State of the denial of an application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver. A denial is without prejudice to the alien's filing another provisional unlawful presence waiver application under this paragraph (e), provided the alien meets all of the requirements in this part, including that the alien's case must be pending with the Department of State. An alien also may elect to file a waiver application under paragraph (a)(1) of this section after departing the United States, appearing for his or her immigrant visa interview at the U.S. Embassy or consulate abroad, and after the Department of State determines the alien's admissibility and eligibility for an immigrant visa.
(ii) Denial of an application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver is not a final agency action for purposes of section 10(c) of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 704.
(10)
Withdrawal of waiver applications.
An alien may withdraw his or her application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver at any time before USCIS makes a final decision. Once the case is withdrawn, USCIS will close the case and notify the alien and his or her attorney or accredited representative. The alien may file a new application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver, in accordance with the form instructions and required fees, provided that the alien meets all of the requirements included in this paragraph (e).
(11)
Appeals and motions to reopen.
There is no administrative appeal from a denial of a request for a provisional unlawful presence waiver under this section. The alien may not file, pursuant to 8 CFR 103.5, a motion to reopen or reconsider a denial of a provisional unlawful presence waiver application under this section.
(12)
Approval and conditions.
A provisional unlawful presence waiver granted under this section:
(i) Does not take effect unless, and until, the alien who applied for and obtained the provisional unlawful presence waiver:
(A) Departs from the United States;
(B) Appears for an immigrant visa interview at a U.S. Embassy or consulate; and
(C) Is determined to be otherwise eligible for an immigrant visa by the Department of State in light of the approved provisional unlawful presence waiver.
(ii) Waives, upon satisfaction of the conditions described in paragraph (e)(12)(i), the alien's inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act only for purposes of the application for an immigrant visa and admission to the United States as an immigrant based on the approved immigrant visa petition upon which a provisional unlawful presence waiver application is based or selection by the Department
of State to participate in the Diversity Visa Program under section 203(c) of the Act for the fiscal year for which the alien registered, with such selection being the basis for the alien's provisional unlawful presence waiver application;
(iii) Does not waive any ground of inadmissibility other than, upon satisfaction of the conditions described in paragraph (e)(12)(i), the grounds of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B)(i)(I) or (II) of the Act.
(13)
Validity.
Until the provisional unlawful presence waiver takes full effect as provided in paragraph (e)(12) of this section, USCIS may reopen and reconsider its decision at any time. Once a provisional unlawful presence waiver takes full effect as defined in paragraph (e)(12) of this section, the period of unlawful presence for which the provisional unlawful presence waiver is granted is waived indefinitely, in accordance with and subject to paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(14)
Automatic revocation.
The approval of a provisional unlawful presence waiver is revoked automatically if:
(i) The Department of State denies the immigrant visa application after completion of the immigrant visa interview based on a finding that the alien is ineligible to receive an immigrant visa for any reason other than inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B)(i)(I) or (II) of the Act. This automatic revocation does not prevent the alien from applying for a waiver of inadmissibility for unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9)(B)(v) of the Act and 8 CFR 212.7(a) or for any other relief from inadmissibility on any other ground for which a waiver is available and for which the alien may be eligible;
(ii) The immigrant visa petition approval associated with the provisional unlawful presence waiver is at any time revoked, withdrawn, or rendered invalid but not otherwise reinstated for humanitarian reasons or converted to a widow or widower petition;
(iii) The immigrant visa registration is terminated in accordance with section 203(g) of the Act, and has not been reinstated in accordance with section 203(g) of the Act; or
(iv) The alien enters or attempts to reenter the United States without inspection and admission or parole at any time after the alien files the provisional unlawful presence waiver application and before the approval of the provisional unlawful presence waiver takes effect in accordance with paragraph (e)(12) of this section.
(Secs. 103, 203, 212 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended by secs. 4, 5, 18 of Pub. L. 97-116, 95 Stat. 1611, 1620, (8 U.S.C. 1103, 1153, 1182)
[29 FR 12584, Sept. 4, 1964]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 212.7, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§§ 212.8-212.9
[Reserved]
§ 212.10
Section 212(k) waiver.
Any applicant for admission who is in possession of an immigrant visa, and who is inadmissible under section 212(a)(5)(A) or 212(a)(7)(A)(i) of the Act, may apply at the port of entry for a waiver under section 212(k) of the Act. If the application for waiver is denied, the application may be renewed in removal proceedings before an immigration judge as provided in 8 CFR part 1240.
[76 FR 53787, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 212.11
[Reserved]
§ 212.12
Parole determinations and revocations respecting Mariel Cubans.
(a)
Scope.
This section applies to any native of Cuba who last came to the United States between April 15, 1980, and October 20, 1980 (hereinafter referred to as
Mariel Cuban
) and who is being detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (hereinafter referred to as the
Service
) pending his or her exclusion hearing, or pending his or her return to Cuba or to another country. It covers Mariel Cubans who have never been paroled as well as those Mariel Cubans whose previous parole has been revoked by the Service. It also applies to any Mariel Cuban, detained under the authority of the Immigration and Nationality Act in any facility, who has not been approved for
release or who is currently awaiting movement to a Service or Bureau Of Prisons (BOP) facility. In addition, it covers the revocation of parole for those Mariel Cubans who have been released on parole at any time.
(b)
Parole authority and decision.
The authority to grant parole under section 212(d)(5) of the Act to a detained Mariel Cuban shall be exercised by the Commissioner, acting through the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement, as follows:
(1)
Parole decisions.
The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement may, in the exercise of discretion, grant parole to a detained Mariel Cuban for emergent reasons or for reasons deemed strictly in the public interest. A decision to retain in custody shall briefly set forth the reasons for the continued detention. A decision to release on parole may contain such special conditions as are considered appropriate. A copy of any decision to parole or to detain, with an attached copy translated into Spanish, shall be provided to the detainee. Parole documentation for Mariel Cubans shall be issued by the district director having jurisdiction over the alien, in accordance with the parole determination made by the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement.
(2)
Additional delegation of authority.
All references to the Commissioner and Associate Commissioner for Enforcement in this section shall be deemed to include any person or persons (including a committee) designated in writing by the Commissioner or Associate Commissioner for Enforcement to exercise powers under this section.
(c)
Review Plan Director.
The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement shall appoint a Director of the Cuban Review Plan. The Director shall have authority to establish and maintain appropriate files respecting each Mariel Cuban to be reviewed for possible parole, to determine the order in which the cases shall be reviewed, and to coordinate activities associated with these reviews.
(d)
Recommendations to the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement.
Parole recommendations for detained Mariel Cubans shall be developed in accordance with the following procedures.
(1)
Review Panels.
The Director shall designate a panel or panels to make parole recommendations to the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement. A Cuban Review Panel shall, except as otherwise provided, consist of two persons. Members of a Review Panel shall be selected from the professional staff of the Service. All recommendations by a two-member Panel shall be unanimous. If the vote of a two-member Panel is split, it shall adjourn its deliberations concerning that particular detainee until a third Panel member is added. A recommendation by a three-member Panel shall be by majority vote. The third member of any Panel shall be the Director of the Cuban Review Plan or his designee.
(2)
Criteria for Review.
Before making any recommendation that a detainee be granted parole, a majority of the Cuban Review Panel members, or the Director in case of a record review, must conclude that:
(i) The detainee is presently a nonviolent person;
(ii) The detainee is likely to remain nonviolent;
(iii) The detainee is not likely to pose a threat to the community following his release; and
(iv) The detainee is not likely to violate the conditions of his parole.
(3)
Factors for consideration.
The following factors should be weighed in considering whether to recommend further detention or release on parole of a detainee:
(i) The nature and number of disciplinary infractions or incident reports received while in custody;
(ii) The detainee's past history of criminal behavior;
(iii) Any psychiatric and psychological reports pertaining to the detainee's mental health;
(iv) Institutional progress relating to participation in work, educational and vocational programs;
(v) His ties to the United States, such as the number of close relatives residing lawfully here;
(vi) The likelihood that he may abscond, such as from any sponsorship program; and
(vii) Any other information which is probative of whether the detainee is likely to adjust to life in a community,
is likely to engage in future acts of violence, is likely to engage in future criminal activity, or is likely to violate the conditions of his parole.
(4)
Procedure for review.
The following procedures will govern the review process:
(i)
Record review.
Initially, the Director or a Panel shall review the detainee's file. Upon completion of this record review, the Director or the Panel shall issue a written recommendation that the detainee be released on parole or scheduled for a personal interview.
(ii)
Personal interview.
If a recommendation to grant parole after only a record review is not accepted or if the detainee is not recommended for release, a Panel shall personally interview the detainee. The scheduling of such interviews shall be at the discretion of the Director. The detainee may be accompanied during the interview by a person of his choice, who is able to attend at the time of the scheduled interview, to assist in answering any questions. The detainee may submit to the Panel any information, either orally or in writing, which he believes presents a basis for release on parole.
(iii)
Panel recommendation.
Following completion of the interview and its deliberations, the Panel shall issue a written recommendation that the detainee be released on parole or remain in custody pending deportation or pending further observation and subsequent review. This written recommendation shall include a brief statement of the factors which the Panel deems material to its recommendation. The recommendation and appropriate file material shall be forwarded to the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement, to be considered in the exercise of discretion pursuant to § 212.12(b).
(e)
Withdrawal of parole approval.
The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement may, in his or her discretion, withdraw approval for parole of any detainee prior to release when, in his or her opinion, the conduct of the detainee, or any other circumstance, indicates that parole would no longer be appropriate.
(f)
Sponsorship.
No detainee may be released on parole until suitable sponsorship or placement has been found for the detainee. The paroled detainee must abide by the parole conditions specified by the Service in relation to his sponsorship or placement. The following sponsorships and placements are suitable:
(1) Placement by the Public Health Service in an approved halfway house or mental health project;
(2) Placement by the Community Relations Service in an approved halfway house or community project; and
(3) Placement with a close relative such as a parent, spouse, child, or sibling who is a lawful permanent resident or a citizen of the United States.
(g)
Timing of reviews.
The timing of review shall be in accordance with the following guidelines.
(1)
Parole revocation cases.
The Director shall schedule the review process in the case of a new or returning detainee whose previous immigration parole has been revoked. The review process will commence with a scheduling of a file review, which will ordinarily be expected to occur within approximately three months after parole is revoked. In the case of a Mariel Cuban who is in the custody of the Service, the Cuban Review Plan Director may, in his or her discretion, suspend or postpone the parole review process if such detainee's prompt deportation is practicable and proper.
(2)
Continued detention cases.
A subsequent review shall be commenced for any detainee within one year of a refusal to grant parole under § 212.12(b), unless a shorter interval is specified by the Director.
(3)
Discretionary reviews.
The Cuban Review Plan Director, in his discretion, may schedule a review of a detainee at any time when the Director deems such a review to be warranted.
(h)
Revocation of parole.
The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement shall have authority, in the exercise of discretion, to revoke parole in respect to Mariel Cubans. A district director may also revoke parole when, in the district director's opinion, revocation is in the public interest and circumstances do not reasonably permit referral of the case to the Associate Commissioner. Parole may be revoked
in the exercise of discretion when, in the opinion of the revoking official:
(1) The purposes of parole have been served;
(2) The Mariel Cuban violates any condition of parole;
(3) It is appropriate to enforce an order of exclusion or to commence proceedings against a Mariel Cuban; or
(4) The period of parole has expired without being renewed.
[52 FR 48802, Dec. 28, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 13870, Mar. 24, 1994; 65 FR 80294, Dec. 21, 2000]
§ 212.13
[Reserved]
§ 212.14
Parole determinations for alien witnesses and informants for whom a law enforcement authority (“LEA”) will request S classification.
(a)
Parole authority.
Parole authorization under section 212(d)(5) of the Act for aliens whom LEAs seek to bring to the United States as witnesses or informants in criminal/counter terrorism matters and to apply for S classification shall be exercised as follows:
(1)
Grounds of eligibility.
The Commissioner may, in the exercise of discretion, grant parole to an alien (and the alien's family members) needed for law enforcement purposes provided that a state or federal LEA:
(i) Establishes its intention to file, within 30 days after the alien's arrival in the United States, an application for S nonimmigrant status on the form designated for such purposes, with the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, in accordance with the instructions on or attached to the form, which will include the names of qualified family members for whom parole is sought;
(ii) Specifies the particular operational reasons and basis for the request, and agrees to assume responsibility for the alien during the period of the alien's temporary stay in the United States, including maintaining control and supervision of the alien and the alien's whereabouts and activities, and further specifies any other terms and conditions specified by the Service during the period for which the parole is authorized;
(iii) Agrees to advise the Service of the alien's failure to report quarterly any criminal conduct by the alien, or any other activity or behavior on the alien's part that may constitute a ground of excludability or deportability;
(iv) Assumes responsibility for ensuring the alien's departure on the date of termination of the authorized parole (unless the alien has been admitted in S nonimmigrant classification pursuant to the terms of paragraph (a)(2) of this section), provides any and all assistance needed by the Service, if necessary, to ensure departure, and verifies departure in a manner acceptable to the Service;
(v) Provide LEA seat-of-government certification that parole of the alien is essential to an investigation or prosecution, is in the national interest, and is requested pursuant to the terms and authority of section 212(d)(5) of the Act;
(vi) Agrees that no promises may be, have been, or will be made by the LEA to the alien that the alien will or may:
(A) Remain in the United States in parole status or any other nonimmigrant classification;
(B) Adjust status to that of lawful permanent resident; or
(C) Otherwise attempt to remain beyond the authorized parole. The alien (and any family member of the alien who is 18 years of age or older) shall sign a statement acknowledging an awareness that parole only authorizes a temporary stay in the United States and does not convey the benefits of S nonimmigrant classification, any other nonimmigrant classification, or any entitlement to further benefits under the Act; and
(vii) Provides, in the case of a request for the release of an alien from Service custody, certification that the alien is eligible for parole pursuant to § 235.3 of this chapter.
(2)
Authorization.
(i) Upon approval of the request for parole, the Commissioner shall notify the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, of the approval.
(ii) Upon notification of approval of a request for parole, the LEA will advise the Commissioner of the date, time, and place of the arrival of the alien. The Commissioner will coordinate the arrival of the alien in parole status
with the port director prior to the time of arrival.
(iii) Parole will be authorized for a period of thirty (30) days to commence upon the alien's arrival in the United States in order for the LEA to submit the completed application to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division. Upon the submission to the Assistant Attorney General of the completed application for S classification, the period of parole will be automatically extended while the request is being reviewed. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, will notify the Commissioner of the submission of the application.
(b)
Termination of parole
—(1)
General.
The Commissioner may terminate parole for any alien (including a member of the alien's family) in parole status under this section where termination is in the public interest. A district director may also terminate parole when, in the district director's opinion, termination is in the public interest and circumstances do not reasonably permit referral of the case to the Commissioner. In such a case, the Commissioner shall be notified immediately. In the event the Commissioner, or in the appropriate case, a district director, decides to terminate the parole of an alien witness or informant authorized under the terms of this paragraph, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to terminate parole.
(2)
Termination of parole and admission in S classification.
When an LEA has filed a request for an alien in authorized parole status to be admitted in S nonimmigrant classification and that request has been approved by the Commissioner pursuant to the procedures outlines in 8 CFR 214.2(t), the Commissioner may, in the exercise of discretion:
(i) Terminate the alien's parole status;
(ii) Determine eligibility for waivers; and
(iii) Admit the alien in S nonimmigrant classification pursuant to the terms and conditions of section 101(a)(15(S) of the Act and 8 CFR 214.2(t).
(c)
Departure.
If the alien's parole has been terminated and the alien has been ordered excluded from the United States, the LEA shall ensure departure from the United States and so inform the district director in whose jurisdiction the alien has last resided. The district director, if necessary, shall oversee the alien's departure from the United States and, in any event, shall notify the Commissioner of the alien's departure. The Commissioner shall be notified in writing of the failure of any alien authorized parole under this paragraph to depart in accordance with an order of exclusion and deportation entered after parole authorized under this paragraph has been terminated.
(d)
Failure to comply with procedures.
Any failure to adhere to the parole procedures contained in this section shall immediately be brought to the attention of the Commissioner, who will notify the Attorney General.
[60 FR 44265, Aug. 25, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 53787, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 212.15
Certificates for foreign health care workers.
(a)
General certification requirements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) or paragraph (d)(1) of this section, any alien who seeks admission to the United States as an immigrant or as a nonimmigrant for the primary purpose of performing labor in a health care occupation listed in paragraph (c) of this section is inadmissible unless the alien presents a certificate from a credentialing organization, listed in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) In the alternative, an eligible alien who seeks to enter the United States for the primary purpose of performing labor as a nurse may present a certified statement as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(3) A certificate or certified statement described in this section does not constitute professional authorization to practice in that health care occupation.
(b)
Inapplicability of the ground of inadmissibility.
This section does not apply to:
(1) Physicians;
(2) Aliens seeking admission to the United States to perform services in a non-clinical health care occupation. A non-clinical care occupation is one in which the alien is not required to perform direct or indirect patient care. Occupations which are considered to be non-clinical include, but are not limited to, medical teachers, medical researchers, and managers of health care facilities;
(3) Aliens coming to the United States to receive training as an H-3 nonimmigrant, or receiving training as part of an F or J nonimmigrant program.
(4) The spouse and dependent children of any immigrant or nonimmigrant alien;
(5) Any alien applying for adjustment of status to that of a permanent resident under any provision of law other than under section 245 of the Act, or any alien who is seeking adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act on the basis of a relative visa petition approved under section 203(a) of the Act, or any alien seeking adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act on the basis of an employment-based petition approved pursuant to section 203(b) of the Act for employment that does not fall under one of the covered health care occupations listed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Covered health care occupations.
With the exception of the aliens described in paragraph (b) of this section, this paragraph (c) applies to any alien seeking admission to the United States to perform labor in one of the following health care occupations, regardless of where he or she received his or her education or training:
(1) Licensed Practical Nurses, Licensed Vocational Nurses, and Registered Nurses.
(2) Occupational Therapists.
(3) Physical Therapists.
(4) Speech Language Pathologists and Audiologists.
(5) Medical Technologists (Clinical Laboratory Scientists).
(6) Physician Assistants.
(7) Medical Technicians (Clinical Laboratory Technicians)
(d)
Presentation of certificate or certified statements
—(1)
Aliens required to obtain visas.
Except as provided in paragraph (n) of this section, if 8 CFR 212.1 requires an alien who is described in paragraph (a) of this section and who is applying for admission as a nonimmigrant seeking to perform labor in a health care occupation as described in this section to obtain a nonimmigrant visa, the alien must present a certificate or certified statement to a consular officer at the time of visa issuance and to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) at the time of admission. The certificate or certified statement must be valid at the time of visa issuance and admission at a port-of-entry. An alien who has previously presented a foreign health care worker certification or certified statement for a particular health care occupation will be required to present it again at the time of visa issuance or each admission to the United States.
(2)
Aliens not requiring a nonimmigrant visa.
Except as provided in paragraph (n) of this section, an alien described in paragraph (a) of this section who, pursuant to 8 CFR 212.1, is not required to obtain a nonimmigrant visa to apply for admission to the United States must present a certificate or certified statement as provided in this section to an immigration officer at the time of initial application for admission to the United States to perform labor in a particular health care occupation. An alien who has previously presented a foreign health care worker certification or certified statement for a particular health care occupation will be required to present it again at the time of each application for admission.
(e)
Approved credentialing organizations for health care workers.
An alien may present a certificate from any credentialing organization listed in this paragraph (e) with respect to a particular health care field. In addition to paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section, the DHS will notify the
public of additional credentialing organizations through the publication of notices in the
Federal Register.
(1) The Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools (CGFNS) is authorized to issue certificates under section 212(a)(5)(C) of the Act for nurses, physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech-language pathologists and audiologists, medical technologists (also known as clinical laboratory scientists), medical technicians (also known as clinical laboratory technicians), and physician assistants.
(2) The National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) is authorized to issue certificates in the field of occupational therapy pending final adjudication of its credentialing status under this part.
(3) The Foreign Credentialing Commission on Physical Therapy (FCCPT) is authorized to issue certificates in the field of physical therapy pending final adjudication of its credentialing status under this part.
(f)
Requirements for issuance of health care certification.
(1) Prior to issuing a certification to an alien, the organization must verify the following:
(i) That the alien's education, training, license, and experience are comparable with that required for an American health care worker of the same type;
(ii) That the alien's education, training, license, and experience are authentic and, in the case of a license, unencumbered;
(iii) That the alien's education, training, license, and experience meet all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements for admission into the United States. This verification is not binding on the DHS; and
(iv) Either that the alien has passed a test predicting success on the occupation's licensing or certification examination, provided such a test is recognized by a majority of states licensing the occupation for which the certification is issued, or that the alien has passed the occupation's licensing or certification examination.
(2) A certificate issued under section 212(a)(5)(C) of the Act must contain the following:
(i) The name, address, and telephone number of the credentialing organization, and a point of contact to verify the validity of the certificate;
(ii) The date the certificate was issued;
(iii) The health care occupation for which the certificate was issued; and
(iv) The alien's name, and date and place of birth.
(g)
English language requirements.
(1) With the exception of those aliens described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, every alien must meet certain English language requirements in order to obtain a certificate. The Secretary of HHS has sole authority to set standards for these English language requirements, and has determined that an alien must have a passing score on one of the three tests listed in paragraph (g)(3) of this section before he or she can be granted a certificate. HHS will notify The Department of Homeland Security of additions or deletions to this list, and The Department of Homeland Security will publish such changes in the
Federal Register.
(2) The following aliens are exempt from the English language requirements:
(i) Alien nurses who are presenting a certified statement under section 212(r) of the Act; and
(ii) Aliens who have graduated from a college, university, or professional training school located in Australia, Canada (except Quebec), Ireland, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, or the United States.
(3) The following English testing services have been approved by the Secretary of HHS:
(i) Educational Testing Service (ETS).
(ii) Test of English in International Communication (TOEIC) Service International.
(iii) International English Language Testing System (IELTS).
(4) Passing English test scores for various occupations.
(i)
Occupational and physical therapists.
An alien seeking to perform labor in the United States as an occupational or physical therapist must obtain the following scores on the English tests administered by ETS: Test Of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL):
Paper-Based 560, Computer-Based 220; Test of Written English (TWE): 4.5; Test of Spoken English (TSE): 50. The certifying organizations shall not accept the results of the TOEIC, or the IELTS for the occupation of occupational therapy or physical therapy.
(ii)
Registered nurses and other health care workers requiring the attainment of a baccalaureate degree.
An alien coming to the United States to perform labor as a registered nurse (other than a nurse presenting a certified statement under section 212(r) of the Act) or to perform labor in another health care occupation requiring a baccalaureate degree (other than occupational or physical therapy) must obtain one of the following combinations of scores to obtain a certificate:
(A) ETS: TOEFL: Paper-Based 540, Computer-Based 207; TWE: 4.0; TSE: 50;
(B) TOEIC Service International: TOEIC: 725; plus TWE: 4.0 and TSE: 50; or
(C) IELTS: 6.5 overall with a spoken band score of 7.0. This would require the Academic module.
(iii)
Occupations requiring less than a baccalaureate degree.
An alien coming to the United States to perform labor in a health care occupation that does not require a baccalaureate degree must obtain one of the following combinations of scores to obtain a certificate:
(A) ETS: TOEFL: Paper-Based 530, Computer-Based 197; TWE: 4.0; TSE: 50;
(B) TOEIC Service International: TOEIC: 700; plus TWE 4.0 and TSE: 50; or
(C) IELTS: 6.0 overall with a spoken band score of 7.0. This would allow either the Academic or the General module.
(h)
Alternative certified statement for certain nurses.
(1) CGFNS is authorized to issue certified statements under section 212(r) of the Act for aliens seeking to enter the United States to perform labor as nurses. The DHS will notify the public of new organizations that are approved to issue certified statements through notices published in the
Federal Register.
(2) An approved credentialing organization may issue a certified statement to an alien if each of the following requirements is satisfied:
(i) The alien has a valid and unrestricted license as a nurse in a state where the alien intends to be employed and such state verifies that the foreign licenses of alien nurses are authentic and unencumbered;
(ii) The alien has passed the National Council Licensure Examination for registered nurses (NCLEX-RN);
(iii) The alien is a graduate of a nursing program in which the language of instruction was English;
(iv) The nursing program was located in Australia, Canada (except Quebec), Ireland, New Zealand, South Africa, the United Kingdom, or the United States; or in any other country designated by unanimous agreement of CGFNS and any equivalent credentialing organizations which have been approved for the certification of nurses and which are listed at paragraph (e) of this section; and
(v) The nursing program was in operation on or before November 12, 1999, or has been approved by unanimous agreement of CGFNS and any equivalent credentialing organizations that have been approved for the certification of nurses.
(3) An individual who obtains a certified statement need not comply with the certificate requirements of paragraph (f) or the English language requirements of paragraph (g) of this section.
(4) A certified statement issued to a nurse under section 212(r) of the Act must contain the following information:
(i) The name, address, and telephone number of the credentialing organization, and a point of contact to verify the validity of the certified statement;
(ii) The date the certified statement was issued; and
(iii) The alien's name, and date and place of birth.
(i)
Streamlined certification process
—(1)
Nurses.
An alien nurse who has graduated from an entry level program accredited by the National League for Nursing Accreditation Commission (NLNAC) or the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE) is exempt from the educational comparability review and English language proficiency testing.
(2)
Occupational Therapists.
An alien occupational therapist who has graduated from a program accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA) is exempt from the educational comparability review and English language proficiency testing.
(3)
Physical therapists.
An alien physical therapist who has graduated from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE) of the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) is exempt from the educational comparability review and English language proficiency testing.
(4)
Speech language pathologists and audiologists.
An alien speech language pathologists and/or audiologist who has graduated from a program accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech Language Pathology (CAA) of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) is exempt from the educational comparability review and English language proficiency testing.
(j)
Application process for credentialing organizations
—(1)
Organizations other than CGFNS.
An organization, other than CGFNS, seeking to obtain approval to issue certificates to health care workers, or certified statements to nurses must apply on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions. An organization seeking authorization to issue certificates or certified statements must agree to submit all evidence required by the DHS and, upon request, allow the DHS to review the organization's records related to the certification process. The application must:
(i) Clearly describe and identify the organization seeking authorization to issue certificates;
(ii) List the occupations for which the organization desires to provide certificates;
(iii) Describe how the organization substantially meets the standards described at paragraph (k) of this section;
(iv) Describe the organization's expertise, knowledge, and experience in the health care occupation(s) for which it desires to issue certificates;
(v) Provide a point of contact;
(vi) Describe the verification procedure the organization has designed in order for the DHS to verify the validity of a certificate; and
(vii) Describe how the organization will process and issue in a timely manner the certificates.
(2)
Applications filed by CGFNS.
(i) CGFNS must apply to ensure that it will be in compliance with the regulations governing the issuance and content of certificates to nurses, physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech-language pathologists and audiologists, medical technologists (also known as clinical laboratory scientists), medical technicians (also known as clinical laboratory technicians), and physician assistants under section 212(a)(5)(C) of the Act, or issuing certified statements to nurses under section 212(r) of the Act.
(ii) Prior to issuing certificates for any other health care occupations, CGFNS must apply on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions for authorization to issue such certificates. The DHS will evaluate CGFNS' expertise with respect to the particular health care occupation for which authorization to issue certificates is sought, in light of CGFNS' statutory designation as a credentialing organization.
(3)
Procedure for review of applications by credentialing organizations.
(i) USCIS will, forward a copy of the application and supporting documents to the Secretary of HHS in order to obtain an opinion on the merits of the application. The DHS will not render a decision on the request until the Secretary of HHS provides an opinion. The DHS shall accord the Secretary of HHS' opinion great weight in reaching its decision. The DHS may deny the organization's request notwithstanding the favorable recommendation from the Secretary of HHS, on grounds unrelated to the credentialing of health care occupations or health care services.
(ii) The DHS will notify the organization of the decision on its application in writing and, if the request is denied, of the reasons for the denial. Approval of authorization to issue certificates to
foreign health care workers or certified statements to nurses will be made in 5-year increments, subject to the review process described at paragraph (l) of this section.
(iii) If the application is denied, the decision may be appealed pursuant to 8 CFR 103.3.
(k)
Standards for credentialing organizations.
The DHS will evaluate organizations, including CGFNS, seeking to obtain approval from the DHS to issue certificates for health care workers, or certified statements for nurses. Any organization meeting the standards set forth in paragraph (k)(1) of this section can be eligible for authorization to issue certificates. While CGFNS has been specifically listed in the statute as an entity authorized to issue certificates, it is not exempt from governmental oversight. All organizations will be reviewed, including CGFNS, to guarantee that they continue to meet the standards required of all certifying organizations, under the following:
(1)
Structure of the organization.
(i) The organization shall be incorporated as a legal entity.
(ii)(A) The organization shall be independent of any organization that functions as a representative of the occupation or profession in question or serves as or is related to a recruitment/placement organization.
(B) The DHS shall not approve an organization that is unable to render impartial advice regarding an individual's qualifications regarding training, experience, and licensure.
(C) The organization must also be independent in all decision making matters pertaining to evaluations and/or examinations that it develops including, but not limited to: policies and procedures; eligibility requirements and application processing; standards for granting certificates and their renewal; examination content, development, and administration; examination cut-off scores, excluding those pertaining to English language requirements; grievance and disciplinary processes; governing body and committee meeting rules; publications about qualifying for a certificate and its renewal; setting fees for application and all other services provided as part of the screening process; funding, spending, and budget authority related to the operation of the certification organization; ability to enter into contracts and grant arrangements; ability to demonstrate adequate staffing and management resources to conduct the program(s) including the authority to approve selection of, evaluate, and initiate dismissal of the chief staff member.
(D) An organization whose fees are based on whether an applicant receives a visa may not be approved.
(iii) The organization shall include the following representation in the portion of its organization responsible for overseeing certification and, where applicable, examinations:
(A) Individuals from the same health care discipline as the alien health care worker being evaluated who are eligible to practice in the United States; and
(B) At least one voting public member to represent the interests of consumers and protect the interests of the public at large. The public member shall not be a member of the discipline or derive significant income from the discipline, its related organizations, or the organization issuing the certificate.
(iv) The organization must have a balanced representation such that the individuals from the same health care discipline, the voting public members, and any other appointed individuals have an equal say in matters relating to credentialing and/or examinations.
(v) The organization must select representatives of the discipline using one of the following recommended methods, or demonstrate that it has a selection process that meets the intent of these methods:
(A) Be selected directly by members of the discipline eligible to practice in the United States;
(B) Be selected by members of a membership organization representing the discipline or by duly elected representatives of a membership organization; or
(C) Be selected by a membership organization representing the discipline from a list of acceptable candidates supplied by the credentialing body.
(vi) The organization shall use formal procedures for the selection of members of the governing body that prohibit the governing body from selecting a majority of its successors. Not-for-profit corporations which have difficulty meeting this requirement may provide in their applications evidence that the organization is independent, and free of material conflicts of interest regarding whether an alien receives a visa.
(vii) The organization shall be separate from the accreditation and educational functions of the discipline, except for those entities recognized by the Department of Education as having satisfied the requirement of independence.
(viii) The organization shall publish and make available a document which clearly defines the responsibilities of the organization and outlines any other activities, arrangements, or agreements of the organization that are not directly related to the certification of health care workers.
(2)
Resources of the organization.
(i) The organization shall demonstrate that its staff possess the knowledge and skills necessary to accurately assess the education, work experience, licensure of health care workers, and the equivalence of foreign educational institutions, comparable to those of United States-trained health care workers and institutions.
(ii) The organization shall demonstrate the availability of financial and material resources to effectively and thoroughly conduct regular and ongoing evaluations on an international basis.
(iii) If the health care field is one for which a majority of the states require a predictor test, the organization shall demonstrate the ability to conduct examinations in those countries with educational and evaluation systems comparable to the majority of states.
(iv) The organization shall have the resources to publish and make available general descriptive materials on the procedures used to evaluate and validate credentials, including eligibility requirements, determination procedures, examination schedules, locations, fees, reporting of results, and disciplinary and grievance procedures.
(3)
Candidate evaluation and testing mechanisms.
(i) The organization shall publish and make available a comprehensive outline of the information, knowledge, or functions covered by the evaluation/examination process, including information regarding testing for English language competency.
(ii) The organization shall use reliable evaluation/examination mechanisms to evaluate individual credentials and competence that is objective, fair to all candidates, job related, and based on knowledge and skills needed in the discipline.
(iii) The organization shall conduct ongoing studies to substantiate the reliability and validity of the evaluation/examination mechanisms.
(iv) The organization shall implement a formal policy of periodic review of the evaluation/examination mechanism to ensure ongoing relevance of the mechanism with respect to knowledge and skills needed in the discipline.
(v) The organization shall use policies and procedures to ensure that all aspects of the evaluation/examination procedures, as well as the development and administration of any tests, are secure.
(vi) The organization shall institute procedures to protect against falsification of documents and misrepresentation, including a policy to request each applicant's transcript(s) and degree(s) directly from the educational licensing authorities.
(vii) The organization shall establish policies and procedures that govern the length of time the applicant's records must be kept in their original format.
(viii) The organization shall publish and make available, at least annually, a summary of all screening activities for each discipline including, at least, the number of applications received, the number of applicants evaluated, the number receiving certificates, the number who failed, and the number receiving renewals.
(4)
Responsibilities to applicants applying for an initial certificate or renewal.
(i) The organization shall not discriminate among applicants as to age, sex, race, religion, national origin, disability, or marital status and shall include a statement of nondiscrimination
in announcements of the evaluation/examination procedures and renewal certification process.
(ii) The organization shall provide all applicants with copies of formalized application procedures for evaluation/examination and shall uniformly follow and enforce such procedures for all applicants. Instructions shall include standards regarding English language requirements.
(iii) The organization shall implement a formal policy for the periodic review of eligibility criteria and application procedures to ensure that they are fair and equitable.
(iv) Where examinations are used, the organization shall provide competently proctored examination sites at least once annually.
(v) The organization shall report examination results to applicants in a uniform and timely fashion.
(vi) The organization shall provide applicants who failed either the evaluation or examination with information on general areas of deficiency.
(vii) The organization shall implement policies and procedures to ensure that each applicant's examination results are held confidential and delineate the circumstances under which the applicant's certification status may be made public.
(viii) The organization shall have a formal policy for renewing the certification if an individual's original certification has expired before the individual first seeks admission to the United States or applies for adjustment of status. Such procedures shall be restricted to updating information on licensure to determine the existence of any adverse actions and the need to re-establish English competency.
(ix) The organization shall publish due process policies and procedures for applicants to question eligibility determinations, examination or evaluation results, and eligibility status.
(x) The organization shall provide all qualified applicants with a certificate in a timely manner.
(5)
Maintenance of comprehensive and current information.
(i) The organization shall maintain comprehensive and current information of the type necessary to evaluate foreign educational institutions and accrediting bodies for purposes of ensuring that the quality of foreign educational programs is equivalent to those training the same occupation in the United States. The organization shall examine, evaluate, and validate the academic and clinical requirements applied to each country's accrediting body or bodies, or in countries not having such bodies, of the educational institution itself.
(ii) The organization shall also evaluate the licensing and credentialing system(s) of each country or licensing jurisdiction to determine which systems are equivalent to that of the majority of the licensing jurisdictions in the United States.
(6)
Ability to conduct examinations fairly and impartially.
An organization undertaking the administration of a predictor examination, or a licensing or certification examination shall demonstrate the ability to conduct such examination fairly and impartially.
(7)
Criteria for awarding and governing certificate holders.
(i) The organization shall issue a certificate after the education, experience, license, and English language competency have been evaluated and determined to be equivalent to their United States counterparts. In situations where a United States nationally recognized licensure or certification examination, or a test predicting the success on the licensure or certification examination, is offered overseas, the applicant must pass the examination or the predictor test prior to receiving certification. Passage of a test predicting the success on the licensure or certification examination may be accepted only if a majority of states (and Washington, DC) licensing the profession in which the alien intends to work recognize such a test.
(ii) The organization shall have policies and procedures for the revocation of certificates at any time if it is determined that the certificate holder was not eligible to receive the certificate at the time that it was issued. If the organization revokes an individual's certificate, it must notify the DHS, via the Nebraska Service Center, and the appropriate state regulatory authority with jurisdiction over the individual's health care profession. The organization may not reissue a certificate to an
individual whose certificate has been revoked.
(8)
Criteria for maintaining accreditation.
(i) The organization shall advise the DHS of any changes in purpose, structure, or activities of the organization or its program(s).
(ii) The organization shall advise the DHS of any major changes in the evaluation of credentials and examination techniques, if any, or in the scope or objectives of such examinations.
(iii) The organization shall, upon the request of the DHS, submit to the DHS, or any organization designated by the DHS, information requested of the organization and its programs for use in investigating allegations of non-compliance with standards and for general purposes of determining continued approval as an independent credentialing organization.
(iv) The organization shall establish performance outcome measures that track the ability of the certificate holders to pass United States licensure or certification examinations. The purpose of the process is to ensure that certificate holders pass United States licensure or certification examinations at the same pass rate as graduates of United States programs. Failure to establish such measures, or having a record showing an inability of persons granted certificates to pass United States licensure examinations at the same rate as graduates of United States programs, may result in a ground for termination of approval. Information regarding the passage rates of certificate holders shall be maintained by the organization and provided to HHS on an annual basis, to the DHS as part of the 5-year reauthorization application, and at any other time upon request by HHS or the DHS.
(v) The organization shall be in ongoing compliance with other policies specified by the DHS.
(l)
DHS review of the performance of certifying organizations.
The DHS will review credentialing organizations every 5 years to ensure continued compliance with the standards described in this section. Such review will occur concurrent with the adjudication of a request for reauthorization to issue health care worker certificates. The DHS will notify the credentialing organization in writing of the results of the review and request for reauthorization. The DHS may conduct a review of the approval of any request for authorization to issue certificates at any time within the 5-year period of authorization for any reason. If at any time the DHS determines that an organization is not complying with the terms of its authorization or if other adverse information relating to eligibility to issue certificates is developed, the DHS may initiate termination proceedings.
(m)
Termination of certifying organizations.
(1) If the DHS determines that an organization has been convicted, or the directors or officers of an authorized credentialing organization have individually been convicted of the violation of state or federal laws, or other information is developed such that the fitness of the organization to continue to issue certificates or certified statements is called into question, the DHS shall automatically terminate authorization for that organization to issue certificates or certified statements by issuing to the organization a notice of termination of authorization to issue certificates to foreign health care workers. The notice shall reference the specific conviction that is the basis of the automatic termination.
(2) If the DHS determines that an organization is not complying with the terms of its authorization or other adverse information relating to eligibility to issue certificates is uncovered during the course of a review or otherwise brought to the DHS' attention, or if the DHS determines that an organization currently authorized to issue certificates or certified statements has not submitted an application or provided all information required on the request within 6 months of July 25, 2003, the DHS will issue a Notice of Intent to Terminate authorization to issue certificates to the credentialing organization. The Notice shall set forth reasons for the proposed termination.
(i) The credentialing organization shall have 30 days from the date of the Notice of Intent to Terminate authorization to rebut the allegations, or to cure the noncompliance identified in the DHS's notice of intent to terminate.
(ii) DHS will forward to HHS upon receipt any information received in response to a Notice of Intent to Terminate an entity's authorization to issue certificates. Thirty days after the date of the Notice of Intent to Terminate, the DHS shall forward any additional evidence and shall request an opinion from HHS regarding whether the organization's authorization should be terminated. The DHS shall accord HHS' opinion great weight in determining whether the authorization should be terminated. After consideration of the rebuttal evidence, if any, and consideration of HHS' opinion, the DHS will promptly provide the organization with a written decision. If termination of credentialing status is made, the written decision shall set forth the reasons for the termination.
(3) An adverse decision may be appealed pursuant to 8 CFR 103.3 to the Associate Commissioner for Examinations. Termination of credentialing status shall remain in effect until and unless the terminated organization reapplies for credentialing status and is approved, or its appeal of the termination decision is sustained by the Administrative Appeals Office. There is no waiting period for an organization to re-apply for credentialing status.
(n)
Transition
—(1)
One year waiver.
(i) Pursuant to section 212(d)(3) of the Act (and, for cases described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, upon the recommendation of the Secretary of State), the Secretary has determined that until July 26, 2004 (or until July 26, 2005, in the case of a citizen of Canada or Mexico who, before September 23, 2003, was employed as a TN or TC nonimmigrant health care worker and held a valid license from a U.S. jurisdiction), DHS, subject to the conditions in paragraph (n)(2) of this section, may in its discretion admit, extend the period of authorized stay, or change the nonimmigrant status of an alien described in paragraph (d)(1) or paragraph (d)(2) of this section, despite the alien's inadmissibility under section 212(a)(5)(C) of the Act, provided the alien is not otherwise inadmissible.
(ii) After July 26, 2004 (or, after July 26, 2005, in the case of a citizen of Canada or Mexico, who, before September 23, 2003, was employed as a TN or TC nonimmigrant health care worker and held a valid license from a U.S. jurisdiction), such discretion shall be applied on a case-by-case basis.
(2)
Conditions.
Until July 26, 2004 (or until July 26, 2005, in the case of a citizen of Canada or Mexico, who, before September 23, 2003, was employed as a TN or TC nonimmigrant health care worker and held a valid license from a U.S. jurisdiction), the temporary admission, extension of stay, or change of status of an alien described in 8 CFR part 212(d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section that is provided for under this paragraph (n) is subject to the following conditions:
(i) The admission, extension of stay, or change of status may not be for a period longer than 1 year from the date of the decision, even if the relevant provision of 8 CFR 214.2 would ordinarily permit the alien's admission for a longer period;
(ii) The alien must obtain the certification required by paragraph (a) of this section within 1 year of the date of decision to admit the alien or to extend the alien's stay or change the alien's status; and,
(iii) Any subsequent petition or application to extend the period of the alien's authorized stay or change the alien's nonimmigrant status must include proof that the alien has obtained the certification required by paragraph (a) of this section, if the extension or stay or change of status is sought for the primary purpose of the alien's performing labor in a health care occupation listed in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3)
Immigrant aliens.
An alien described in paragraph (a) of this section, who is coming to the United States as an immigrant or is applying for adjustment of status pursuant to section 245 of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1255), to perform labor in a health care occupation described in paragraph (c) of this section, must submit the certificate or certified statement as provided in this section at the time of visa issuance or adjustment of status.
(4)
Expiration of certificate or certified statement.
The individual's certification or certified statement must be used for any admission into the United States, change of status within the United
States, or adjustment of status within 5 years of the date that it is issued.
(5)
Revocation of certificate or certified statement.
When a credentialing organization notifies the DHS, via the Nebraska Service Center, that an individual's certification or certified statement has been revoked, the DHS will take appropriate action, including, but not limited to, revocation of approval of any related petitions, consistent with the Act and DHS regulations at 8 CFR 205.2, 8 CFR 214.2(h)(11)(iii), and 8 CFR 214.6(d)(5)(iii).
[68 FR 43915, July 25, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 43731, July 22, 2004; 74 FR 26938, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53788, Aug. 29, 2011; 76 FR 73477, Nov. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46923, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 212.16
Applications for exercise of discretion relating to T nonimmigrant status.
(a)
Requesting the waiver.
An applicant requesting a waiver of inadmissibility under section 212(d)(3)(A)(ii) or (d)(13) of the Act must submit an Application for Advance Permission to Enter as a Nonimmigrant, or successor form as designated by USCIS in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2.
(b)
Treatment of waiver request.
USCIS, in its discretion, may grant a waiver request based on section 212(d)(13) of the Act of the applicable ground(s) of inadmissibility, except USCIS may not waive a ground of inadmissibility based on section 212(a)(3), (a)(10)(C), or (a)(10)(E) of the Act. An applicant for T nonimmigrant status is not subject to the ground of inadmissibility based on section 212(a)(4) of the Act (public charge) and is not required to file a waiver form for the public charge ground. Waiver requests are subject to a determination of national interest and connection to victimization as follows.
(1)
National interest.
USCIS, in its discretion, may grant a waiver of inadmissibility request if it determines that it is in the national interest to exercise discretion to waive the applicable ground(s) of inadmissibility.
(2)
Connection to victimization.
An applicant requesting a waiver under section 212(d)(13) of the Act on grounds other than the health-related grounds described in section 212(a)(1) of the Act must establish that the activities rendering them inadmissible were caused by, or were incident to, the victimization described in section 101(a)(15)(T)(i)(I) of the Act.
(3)
Criminal grounds.
In exercising its discretion, USCIS will consider the number and seriousness of the criminal offenses and convictions that render an applicant inadmissible under the criminal and related grounds in section 212(a)(2) of the Act. In cases involving violent or dangerous crimes, USCIS will only exercise favorable discretion in extraordinary circumstances, unless the criminal activities were caused by, or were incident to, the victimization described under section 101(a)(15)(T)(i)(I) of the Act.
(c)
No appeal.
There is no appeal of a decision to deny a waiver request. Nothing in this section is intended to prevent an applicant from re-filing a request for a waiver of a ground of inadmissibility in appropriate cases.
(d)
Revocation.
USCIS, at any time, may revoke a waiver previously authorized under section 212(d) of the Act. There is no appeal of a decision to revoke a waiver.
[89 FR 34930, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 212.17
Applications for the exercise of discretion relating to U nonimmigrant status.
(a)
Filing the waiver application.
An alien applying for a waiver of inadmissibility under section 212(d)(3)(B) or (d)(14) of the Act (waivers of inadmissibility), 8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(3)(B) or (d)(14), in connection with a petition for U nonimmigrant status being filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.14, must submit the waiver request and the petition for U nonimmigrant status on the forms designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions. An alien in U nonimmigrant status who is seeking a waiver of section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(9)(B) (unlawful presence ground of inadmissibility triggered by departure from the United States), must file the waiver request prior to his or her application for reentry to the United States in accordance with the form instructions.
(b)
Treatment of waiver application.
(1) USCIS, in its discretion, may grant the waiver based on section 212(d)(14) of the
Act, 8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(14), if it determines that it is in the public or national interest to exercise discretion to waive the applicable ground(s) of inadmissibility. USCIS may not waive a ground of inadmissibility based upon section 212(a)(3)(E) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(E). USCIS, in its discretion, may grant the waiver based on section 212(d)(3) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(3), except where the ground of inadmissibility arises under sections 212(a)(3)(A)(i)(I), (3)(A)(ii), (3)(A)(iii), (3)(C), or (3)(E) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(A)(i)(I), (3)(A)(ii), (3)(A)(iii), (3)(C), or (3)(E).
(2) In the case of applicants inadmissible on criminal or related grounds, in exercising its discretion USCIS will consider the number and severity of the offenses of which the applicant has been convicted. In cases involving violent or dangerous crimes or inadmissibility based on the security and related grounds in section 212(a)(3) of the Act, USCIS will only exercise favorable discretion in extraordinary circumstances.
(3) There is no appeal of a decision to deny a waiver. However, nothing in this paragraph is intended to prevent an applicant from re-filing a request for a waiver of ground of inadmissibility in appropriate cases.
(c)
Revocation.
The Secretary of Homeland Security, at any time, may revoke a waiver previously authorized under section 212(d) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 118(d). Under no circumstances will the alien or any party acting on his or her behalf have a right to appeal from a decision to revoke a waiver.
[72 FR 53035, Sept. 17, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 53788, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 212.18
Applications for waivers of inadmissibility in connection with an application for adjustment of status by T nonimmigrant status holders.
(a)
Filing the waiver application.
An alien applying for a waiver of inadmissibility under section 245(
l
)(2) of the Act in connection with an application for adjustment of status under 8 CFR 245.23(a) or (b) must submit:
(1) A completed Form I-485 application package;
(2) The appropriate fee in accordance with 8 CFR 106.2 or an application for a fee waiver; and, as applicable,
(3) Form I-601, Application for Waiver of Grounds of Excludability.
(b)
Treatment of waiver application.
(1) USCIS may not waive an applicant's inadmissibility under sections 212(a)(3), 212(a)(10)(C), or 212(a)(10)(E) of the Act.
(2) If an applicant is inadmissible under section 212(a)(1) of the Act, USCIS may waive such inadmissibility if it determines that granting a waiver is in the national interest.
(3) If any other applicable provision of section 212(a) renders the applicant inadmissible, USCIS may grant a waiver of inadmissibility if the activities rendering the applicant inadmissible were caused by or were incident to the victimization and USCIS determines that it is in the national interest to waive the applicable ground or grounds of inadmissibility.
(c)
Other waivers.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting an alien's ability to apply for any other waivers of inadmissibility for which he or she may be eligible.
(d)
Revocation.
The Secretary of Homeland Security may, at any time, revoke a waiver previously granted through the procedures described in 8 CFR 103.5.
[73 FR 75557, Dec. 12, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 41501, Aug. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46923, Aug. 3, 2020; 86 FR 14227, Mar. 15, 2021; 87 FR 55636, Sept. 9, 2022]
§ 212.19
Parole for entrepreneurs.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Entrepreneur
means an alien who possesses a substantial ownership interest in a start-up entity and has a central and active role in the operations of that entity, such that the alien is well-positioned, due to his or her knowledge, skills, or experience, to substantially assist the entity with the growth and success of its business. For purposes of this section, an alien may be considered to possess a substantial ownership interest if he or she possesses at least a 10 percent ownership interest in the start-up entity at the time of adjudication of the initial grant of parole and possesses at least a
5 percent ownership interest in the start-up entity at the time of adjudication of a subsequent period of re-parole. During the period of initial parole, the entrepreneur may continue to reduce his or her ownership interest in the start-up entity, but must, at all times during the period of initial parole, maintain at least a 5 percent ownership interest in the entity. During the period of re-parole, the entrepreneur may continue to reduce his or her ownership interest in the start-up entity, but must, at all times during the period of parole, maintain an ownership interest in the entity.
(2)
Start-up entity
means a U.S. business entity that was recently formed, has lawfully done business during any period of operation since its date of formation, and has substantial potential for rapid growth and job creation. An entity that is the basis for a request for parole under this section may be considered recently formed if it was created within the 5 years immediately preceding the filing date of the alien's initial parole request. For purposes of paragraphs (a)(3) and (5) of this section, an entity may be considered recently formed if it was created within the 5 years immediately preceding the receipt of the relevant grant(s), award(s), or investment(s).
(3)
Qualified government award or grant
means an award or grant for economic development, research and development, or job creation (or other similar monetary award typically given to start-up entities) made by a federal, state, or local government entity (not including foreign government entities) that regularly provides such awards or grants to start-up entities. This definition excludes any contractual commitment for goods or services.
(4)
Qualified investment
means an investment made in good faith, and that is not an attempt to circumvent any limitations imposed on investments under this section, of lawfully derived capital in a start-up entity that is a purchase from such entity of its equity, convertible debt, or other security convertible into its equity commonly used in financing transactions within such entity's industry. Such an investment shall not include an investment, directly or indirectly, from the entrepreneur; the parents, spouse, brother, sister, son, or daughter of such entrepreneur; or any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or other entity in which such entrepreneur or the parents, spouse, brother, sister, son, or daughter of such entrepreneur directly or indirectly has any ownership interest.
(5)
Qualified investor
means an individual who is a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States, or an organization that is located in the United States and operates through a legal entity organized under the laws of the United States or any state, that is majority owned and controlled, directly and indirectly, by U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents of the United States, provided such individual or organization regularly makes substantial investments in start-up entities that subsequently exhibit substantial growth in terms of revenue generation or job creation. The term “qualified investor” shall not include an individual or organization that has been permanently or temporarily enjoined from participating in the offer or sale of a security or in the provision of services as an investment adviser, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, bank, transfer agent or credit rating agency, barred from association with any entity involved in the offer or sale of securities or provision of such services, or otherwise found to have participated in the offer or sale of securities or provision of such services in violation of law. For purposes of this section, such an individual or organization may be considered a qualified investor if, during the preceding 5 years:
(i) The individual or organization made investments in start-up entities in exchange for equity, convertible debt, or other security convertible into equity commonly used in financing transactions within their respective industries comprising a total in such 5-year period of no less than $746,571; and
(ii) Subsequent to such investment by such individual or organization, at least 2 such entities each created at least 5 qualified jobs or generated at least $622,142 in revenue with average
annualized revenue growth of at least 20 percent.
(6)
Qualified job
means full-time employment located in the United States that has been filled for at least 1 year by one or more qualifying employees.
(7)
Qualifying employee
means a U.S. citizen, a lawful permanent resident, or other immigrant lawfully authorized to be employed in the United States, who is not an entrepreneur of the relevant start-up entity or the parent, spouse, brother, sister, son, or daughter of such an entrepreneur. This definition shall not include independent contractors.
(8)
Full-time employment
means paid employment in a position that requires a minimum of 35 working hours per week. This definition does not include combinations of part-time positions even if, when combined, such positions meet the hourly requirement per week.
(9)
U.S. business entity
means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or other entity that is organized under federal law or the laws of any state, and that conducts business in the United States, that is not an investment vehicle primarily engaged in the offer, purchase, sale or trading of securities, futures contracts, derivatives or similar instruments.
(10)
Material change
means any change in facts that could reasonably affect the outcome of the determination whether the entrepreneur provides, or continues to provide, a significant public benefit to the United States. Such changes include, but are not limited to, the following: Any criminal charge, conviction, plea of no contest, or other judicial determination in a criminal case concerning the entrepreneur or start-up entity; any complaint, settlement, judgment, or other judicial or administrative determination concerning the entrepreneur or start-up entity in a legal or administrative proceeding brought by a government entity; any settlement, judgment, or other legal determination concerning the entrepreneur or start-up entity in a legal proceeding brought by a private individual or organization other than proceedings primarily involving claims for damages not exceeding 10 percent of the current assets of the entrepreneur or start-up entity; a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the start-up entity's assets; the liquidation, dissolution or cessation of operations of the start-up entity; the voluntary or involuntary filing of a bankruptcy petition by or against the start-up entity; a significant change with respect to ownership and control of the start-up entity; and a cessation of the entrepreneur's qualifying ownership interest in the start-up entity or the entrepreneur's central and active role in the operations of that entity.
(b)
Initial parole
—(1)
Filing of initial parole request form.
An alien seeking an initial grant of parole as an entrepreneur of a start-up entity must file Form I-941, Application for Entrepreneur Parole, with USCIS, with the required fee, and supporting documentary evidence in accordance with this section and the form instructions, demonstrating eligibility as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2)
Criteria for consideration
—(i)
In general.
An alien may be considered for parole under this section if the alien demonstrates that a grant of parole will provide a significant public benefit to the United States based on his or her role as an entrepreneur of a start-up entity.
(ii)
General criteria.
An alien may meet the standard described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section by providing a detailed description, along with supporting evidence:
(A) Demonstrating that the alien is an entrepreneur as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and that his or her entity is a start-up entity as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(B) Establishing that the alien's entity has:
(
1
) Received, within 18 months immediately preceding the filing of an application for initial parole, a qualified investment amount of at least $311,071 from one or more qualified investors; or
(
2
) Received, within 18 months immediately preceding the filing of an application for initial parole, an amount of at least $124,429 through one or more qualified government awards or grants.
(iii)
Alternative criteria.
An alien who satisfies the criteria in paragraph
(b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section and partially meets one or both of the criteria in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section may alternatively meet the standard described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section by providing other reliable and compelling evidence of the start-up entity's substantial potential for rapid growth and job creation.
(c)
Additional periods of parole
—(1)
Filing of re-parole request form.
Before expiration of the initial period of parole, an entrepreneur parolee may request an additional period of parole based on the same start-up entity that formed the basis for his or her initial period of parole granted under this section. To request such parole, an entrepreneur parolee must timely file an application for entrepreneur parole with USCIS on the form prescribed by USCIS with the required fee and supporting documentation in accordance with the form instructions, demonstrating eligibility as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Criteria for consideration
—(i)
In general.
An alien may be considered for re-parole under this section if the alien demonstrates that a grant of parole will continue to provide a significant public benefit to the United States based on his or her role as an entrepreneur of a start-up entity.
(ii)
General criteria.
An alien may meet the standard described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section by providing a detailed description, along with supporting evidence:
(A) Demonstrating that the alien continues to be an entrepreneur as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and that his or her entity continues to be a start-up entity as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
(B) Establishing that the alien's entity has:
(
1
) Received at least $622,142 in qualifying investments, qualified government grants or awards, or a combination of such funding, during the initial parole period;
(
2
) Created at least 5 qualified jobs with the start-up entity during the initial parole period; or
(
3
) Reached at least $622,142 in annual revenue in the United States and averaged 20 percent in annual revenue growth during the initial parole period.
(iii)
Alternative criteria.
An alien who satisfies the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section and partially meets one or more of the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section may alternatively meet the standard described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section by providing other reliable and compelling evidence of the start-up entity's substantial potential for rapid growth and job creation.
(d)
Discretionary authority; decision; appeals and motions to reopen
—(1)
Discretionary authority.
DHS may grant parole under this section in its sole discretion on a case-by-case basis if the Department determines, based on the totality of the evidence, that an applicant's presence in the United States will provide a significant public benefit and that he or she otherwise merits a favorable exercise of discretion. In determining whether an alien's presence in the United States will provide a significant public benefit and whether the alien warrants a favorable exercise of discretion, USCIS will consider and weigh all evidence, including any derogatory evidence or information, such as but not limited to, evidence of criminal activity or national security concerns.
(2)
Initial parole.
DHS may grant an initial period of parole based on the start-up entity listed in the request for parole for a period of up to 30 months from the date the individual is initially paroled into the United States. Approval by USCIS of such a request must be obtained before the alien may appear at a port of entry to be granted parole, in lieu of admission.
(3)
Re-parole.
DHS may re-parole an entrepreneur for one additional period of up to 30 months from the date of the expiration of the initial parole period. If the entrepreneur is in the United States at the time that USCIS approves the request for re-parole, such approval shall be considered a grant of re-parole. If the alien is outside the United States at the time that USCIS approves the request for re-parole, the alien must appear at a port of entry to be granted parole, in lieu of admission.
(4)
Appeals and motions to reopen.
There is no appeal from a denial of parole under this section. USCIS will not
consider a motion to reopen or reconsider a denial of parole under this section. On its own motion, USCIS may reopen or reconsider a decision to deny the Application for Entrepreneur Parole (Form I-941), in accordance with 8 CFR 103.5(a)(5).
(e)
Collection of biometric information.
An alien seeking an initial grant of parole or re-parole will be required to submit biometric information.
(f)
Limitations.
No more than three entrepreneurs may be granted parole under this section based on the same start-up entity. An alien shall not receive more than one initial grant of entrepreneur parole or more than one additional grant of entrepreneur re-parole based on the same start-up entity, for a maximum period of parole of five years.
(g)
Employment authorization.
An entrepreneur who is paroled into the United States pursuant to this section is authorized for employment with the start-up entity incident to the conditions of his or her parole.
(h)
Spouse and children.
(1) The entrepreneur's spouse and children who are seeking parole as derivatives of such entrepreneur must individually file Form I-131, Application for Travel Document. Such application must also include evidence that the derivative has a qualifying relationship to the entrepreneur and otherwise merits a grant of parole in the exercise of discretion. Such spouse or child will be required to appear for collection of biometrics in accordance with the form instructions or upon request.
(2) The spouse and children of an entrepreneur granted parole under this section may be granted parole under this section for no longer than the period of parole granted to such entrepreneur.
(3) The spouse of the entrepreneur parolee, after being paroled into the United States, may be eligible for employment authorization on the basis of parole under this section. To request employment authorization, an eligible spouse paroled into the United States must file an Application for Employment Authorization (Form I-765), in accordance with 8 CFR 274a.13 and form instructions. An Application for Employment Authorization must be accompanied by documentary evidence establishing eligibility, including evidence of the spousal relationship.
(4) Notwithstanding 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(11), a child of the entrepreneur parolee may not be authorized for and may not accept employment on the basis of parole under this section.
(i)
Conditions on parole.
As a condition of parole under this section, a parolee must maintain household income that is greater than 400 percent of the federal poverty line for his or her household size as defined by the Department of Health and Human Services. USCIS may impose other such reasonable conditions in its sole discretion with respect to any alien approved for parole under this section, and it may request verification of the parolee's compliance with any such condition at any time. Violation of any condition of parole may lead to termination of the parole in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section or denial of re-parole.
(j)
Reporting of material changes.
An alien granted parole under this section must immediately report any material change(s) to USCIS. If the entrepreneur will continue to be employed by the start-up entity and maintain a qualifying ownership interest in the start-up entity, the entrepreneur must submit a form prescribed by USCIS, with any applicable fee in accordance with the form instructions to notify USCIS of the material change(s). The entrepreneur parolee must immediately notify USCIS in writing if they will no longer be employed by the start-up entity or ceases to possess a qualifying ownership stake in the start-up entity.
(k)
Termination of parole
—(1)
In general.
DHS, in its discretion, may terminate parole granted under this section at any time and without prior notice or opportunity to respond if it determines that the alien's continued parole in the United States no longer provides a significant public benefit. Alternatively, DHS, in its discretion, may provide the alien notice and an opportunity to respond prior to terminating the alien's parole under this section.
(2)
Automatic termination.
Parole granted under this section will be automatically terminated without notice upon the expiration of the time for
which parole was authorized, unless the alien timely files a non-frivolous application for re-parole. Parole granted under this section may be automatically terminated when USCIS receives written notice from the entrepreneur parolee that he or she will no longer be employed by the start-up entity or ceases to possess a qualifying ownership stake in the start-up entity in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section. Additionally, parole of the spouse or child of the entrepreneur will be automatically terminated without notice if the parole of the entrepreneur has been terminated. If parole is terminated, any employment authorization based on that parole is automatically revoked.
(3)
Termination on notice.
USCIS may terminate on notice or provide the entrepreneur or his or her spouse or children, as applicable, written notice of its intent to terminate parole if USCIS believes that:
(i) The facts or information contained in the request for parole were not true and accurate;
(ii) The alien failed to timely file or otherwise comply with the material change reporting requirements in this section;
(iii) The entrepreneur parolee is no longer employed in a central and active role by the start-up entity or ceases to possess a qualifying ownership stake in the start-up entity;
(iv) The alien otherwise violated the terms and conditions of parole; or
(v) Parole was erroneously granted.
(4)
Notice and decision.
A notice of intent to terminate issued under this paragraph should generally identify the grounds for termination of the parole and provide a period of up to 30 days for the alien's written rebuttal. The alien may submit additional evidence in support of his or her rebuttal, when applicable, and USCIS will consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to terminate the alien's parole. Failure to timely respond to a notice of intent to terminate will result in termination of the parole. When a charging document is served on the alien, the charging document will constitute written notice of termination of parole (if parole has not already been terminated), unless otherwise specified. Any further immigration and removal actions will be conducted in accordance with the Act and this chapter. The decision to terminate parole may not be appealed. USCIS will not consider a motion to reopen or reconsider a decision to terminate parole under this section. On its own motion, USCIS may reopen or reconsider a decision to terminate.
(l)
Increase of investment and revenue amount requirements.
The investment and revenue amounts in this section will be automatically adjusted every 3 years by the Consumer Price Index and posted on the USCIS Web site at
www.uscis.gov.
Investment and revenue amounts adjusted under this paragraph will apply to all applications filed on or after the beginning of the fiscal year for which the adjustment is made.
[82 FR 5286, Jan. 17, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 46923, Aug. 3, 2020; 86 FR 50841, Sept. 13, 2021; 89 FR 6396, Jan. 31, 2024; 89 FR 60301, July 25, 2024]
§ 212.20
Applicability of public charge inadmissibility.
8 CFR 212.20 through 212.23 address the public charge ground of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(4) of the Act. Unless the alien requesting the immigration benefit or classification has been exempted from section 212(a)(4) of the Act as listed in § 212.23(a), the provisions of §§ 212.20 through 212.23 of this part apply to an applicant for admission or adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident.
[87 FR 55636, Sept. 9, 2022]
§ 212.21
Definitions.
For the purposes of §§ 212.20 through 212.23, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Likely at any time to become a public charge
means likely at any time to become primarily dependent on the government for subsistence, as demonstrated by either the receipt of public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense.
(b)
Public cash assistance for income maintenance
means:
(1) Supplemental Security Income (SSI), 42 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.;
(2) Cash assistance for income maintenance under the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program, 42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.;
or
(3) State, Tribal, territorial, or local cash benefit programs for income maintenance (often called “General Assistance” in the State context, but which also exist under other names).
(c)
Long-term institutionalization at government expense
means government assistance for long-term institutionalization (in the case of Medicaid, limited to institutional services under section 1905(a) of the Social Security Act) received by a beneficiary, including in a nursing facility or mental health institution. Long-term institutionalization does not include imprisonment for conviction of a crime or institutionalization for short periods for rehabilitation purposes.
(d)
Receipt (of public benefits).
An individual's receipt of public benefits occurs when a public benefit-granting agency provides either public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense to the individual, where the individual is listed as a beneficiary of such benefits. An individual's application for a public benefit on their own behalf or on behalf of another does not constitute receipt of public benefits by such individual. Approval for future receipt of a public benefit that an individual applied for on their own behalf or on behalf of another does not constitute receipt of public benefits by such an individual. An individual's receipt of public benefits solely on behalf of a third party (including a member of the alien's household as defined in paragraph (f) of this section) does not constitute receipt of public benefits by such individual. The receipt of public benefits solely by a third party (including a member of the alien's household as defined in paragraph (f) of this section), even if an individual assists with the application process, does not constitute receipt for such individual.
(e)
Government
means any Federal, State, Tribal, territorial, or local government entity or entities of the United States.
(f)
Household:
The alien's household includes:
(1) The alien;
(2) The alien's spouse, if physically residing with the alien;
(3) If physically residing with the alien, the alien's parents, the alien's unmarried siblings under 21 years of age, and the alien's children as defined in section 101(b)(1) of the Act;
(4) Any other individuals (including a spouse or child as defined in section 101(b)(1) of the Act not physically residing with the alien) who are listed as dependents on the alien's federal income tax return; and
(5) Any other individual(s) who lists the alien as a dependent on their federal income tax return.
[87 FR 55636, Sept. 9, 2022]
§ 212.22
Public charge inadmissibility determination.
(a)
Factors to consider
—(1)
Consideration of minimum factors:
For purposes of a public charge inadmissibility determination, DHS will consider the alien's:
(i) Age;
(ii) Health, as evidenced by a report of an immigration medical examination performed by a civil surgeon or panel physician where such examination is required (to which DHS will generally defer absent evidence that such report is incomplete);
(iii) Family status, as evidenced by the alien's household size, based on the definition of household in § 212.21(f);
(iv) Assets, resources, and financial status, as evidenced by the alien's household's income, assets, and liabilities (excluding any income from public benefits listed in § 212.21(b) and income or assets from illegal activities or sources such as proceeds from illegal gambling or drug sales); and
(v) Education and skills, as evidenced by the alien's degrees, certifications, licenses, skills obtained through work experience or educational programs, and educational certificates.
(2)
Consideration of affidavit of support.
DHS will favorably consider an Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA, when required under section 212(a)(4)(C) or (D) of the Act, that meets the requirements of section 213A of the Act and 8 CFR part 213a, in making a public charge inadmissibility determination.
(3)
Consideration of current and/or past receipt of public benefits:
DHS will consider the alien's current and/or past receipt of public cash assistance for income maintenance or long-term institutionalization at government expense (consistent with § 212.21(c)). DHS will consider such receipt in the totality of the circumstances, along with the other factors. DHS will consider the amount and duration of receipt, as well as how recently the alien received the benefits, and for long-term institutionalization at government expense, evidence submitted by the alien that the alien's institutionalization violates federal law, including the Americans with Disabilities Act or the Rehabilitation Act. However, current and/or past receipt of these benefits will not alone be a sufficient basis to determine whether the alien is likely at any time to become a public charge. DHS will not consider receipt of, or certification or approval for future receipt of, public benefits not referenced in § 212.21(b) and (c)), such as Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) or other nutrition programs, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Medicaid (other than for long-term use of institutional services under section 1905(a) of the Social Security Act), housing benefits, any benefits related to immunizations or testing for communicable diseases, or other supplemental or special-purpose benefits.
(4)
Disability alone not sufficient.
A finding that an alien has a disability, as defined by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, will not alone be a sufficient basis to determine whether the alien is likely at any time to become a public charge.
(b)
Totality of the circumstances.
The determination of an alien's likelihood of becoming a public charge at any time in the future must be based on the totality of the alien's circumstances. No one factor outlined in paragraph (a) of this section, other than the lack of a sufficient Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA, if required, should be the sole criterion for determining if an alien is likely to become a public charge. DHS may periodically issue guidance to adjudicators to inform the totality of the circumstances assessment. Such guidance will consider how these factors affect the likelihood that the alien will become a public charge at any time based on an empirical analysis of the best-available data as appropriate.
(c)
Denial Decision.
Every written denial decision issued by USCIS based on the totality of the circumstances set forth in paragraph (b) of this section will reflect consideration of each of the factors outlined in paragraph (a) of this section and specifically articulate the reasons for the officer's determination.
(d)
Receipt of public benefits while an alien is in an immigration category exempt from public charge inadmissibility.
In an adjudication for an immigration benefit for which the public charge ground of inadmissibility applies, DHS will not consider any public benefits received by an alien during periods in which the alien was present in the United States in an immigration category that is exempt from the public charge ground of inadmissibility, as set forth in § 212.23(a), or for which the alien received a waiver of public charge inadmissibility, as set forth in § 212.23(c).
(e)
Receipt of benefits available to refugees.
DHS will not consider any public benefits that were received by an alien who, while not a refugee admitted under section 207 of the Act, is eligible for resettlement assistance, entitlement programs, and other benefits available to refugees admitted under section 207 of the Act, including services described under section 412(d)(2) of the Act provided to an unaccompanied alien child as defined under 6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2).
[87 FR 55636, Sept. 9, 2022]
§ 212.23
Exemptions and waivers for public charge ground of inadmissibility.
(a)
Exemptions.
The public charge ground of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(4) of the Act does not apply, based on statutory or regulatory authority, to the following categories of aliens:
(1) Refugees at the time of admission under section 207 of the Act and at the time of adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident under section 209 of the Act;
(2) Asylees at the time of grant under section 208 of the Act and at the time of adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident under section 209 of the Act;
(3) Amerasian immigrants at the time of application for admission as described in sections 584 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, Public Law 100-202, 101 Stat. 1329-183, section 101(e) (Dec. 22, 1987), as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101 note;
(4) Afghan and Iraqi Interpreters, or Afghan or Iraqi nationals employed by or on behalf of the U.S. Government as described in section 1059(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 Public Law 109-163 (Jan. 6, 2006), as amended, and section 602(b) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009, Public Law 111-8, title VI (Mar. 11, 2009), as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101 note, and section 1244(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, as amended, Public Law 110-181 (Jan. 28, 2008);
(5) Cuban and Haitian entrants applying for adjustment of status under section 202 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA), Public Law 99-603, 100 Stat. 3359 (Nov. 6, 1986), as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1255a note;
(6) Aliens applying for adjustment of status under the Cuban Adjustment Act, Public Law 89-732 (Nov. 2, 1966), as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1255 note;
(7) Nicaraguans and other Central Americans applying for adjustment of status under section 202(a) and section 203 of the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA), Public Law 105-100, 111 Stat. 2193 (Nov. 19, 1997), as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1255 note;
(8) Haitians applying for adjustment of status under section 902 of the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act of 1998, Public Law 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681 (Oct. 21, 1998), as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1255 note;
(9) Lautenberg parolees as described in section 599E of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1990, Public Law 101-167, 103 Stat. 1195, title V (Nov. 21, 1989), as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1255 note;
(10) Special immigrant juveniles as described in section 245(h) of the Act;
(11) Aliens who entered the United States prior to January 1, 1972, and who meet the other conditions for being granted lawful permanent residence under section 249 of the Act and 8 CFR part 249 (Registry);
(12) Aliens applying for or reregistering for Temporary Protected Status as described in section 244 of the Act in accordance with section 244(c)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act and 8 CFR 244.3(a);
(13) Nonimmigrants described in section 101(a)(15)(A)(i) and (ii) of the Act (Ambassador, Public Minister, Career Diplomat or Consular Officer, or Immediate Family or Other Foreign Government Official or Employee, or Immediate Family), in accordance with section 102 of the Act and 22 CFR 41.21(d);
(14) Nonimmigrants classifiable as C-2 (alien in transit to U.N. Headquarters) or C-3 (foreign government official), 22 CFR 41.21(d);
(15) Nonimmigrants described in section 101(a)(15)(G)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv), of the Act (Principal Resident Representative of Recognized Foreign Government to International Organization, and related categories), in accordance with section 102 of the Act and 22 CFR 41.21(d);
(16) Nonimmigrants classifiable as NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4 (NATO representatives), and NATO-6 in accordance with 22 CFR 41.21(d);
(17) Applicants for nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Act, in accordance with § 212.16(b);
(18) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, individuals who are seeking an immigration benefit for which admissibility is required, including but not limited to adjustment of status under section 245(a) of the Act and section 245(l) of the Act and who:
(i) Have a pending application that sets forth a prima facie case for eligibility for nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Act, or
(ii) Have been granted nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Act, provided that the individual is in valid T nonimmigrant status at the time the benefit request is properly filed with USCIS and at the time the benefit request is adjudicated;
(19) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section:
(i) Petitioners for nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Act, in accordance with section 212(a)(4)(E)(ii) of the Act; or
(ii) Individuals who are granted nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Act in accordance with section 212(a)(4)(E)(ii) of the Act, who are seeking an immigration benefit for which admissibility is required, including, but not limited to, adjustment of status under section 245(a) of the Act, provided that the individuals are in valid U nonimmigrant status at the time the benefit request is properly filed with USCIS and at the time the benefit request is adjudicated;
(20) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any aliens who are VAWA self-petitioners under section 212(a)(4)(E)(i) of the Act;
(21) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, qualified aliens described in section 431(c) of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, 8 U.S.C. 1641(c), under section 212(a)(4)(E)(iii) of the Act;
(22) Applicants adjusting status who qualify for a benefit under section 1703 of the National Defense Authorization Act, Public Law 108-136, 117 Stat. 1392 (Nov. 24, 2003), 8 U.S.C. 1151 note (posthumous benefits to surviving spouses, children, and parents);
(23) American Indians born in Canada determined to fall under section 289 of the Act;
(24) Texas Band of Kickapoo Indians of the Kickapoo Tribe of Oklahoma, Public Law 97-429 (Jan. 8, 1983);
(25) Nationals of Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos applying for adjustment of status under section 586 of Public Law 106-429 under 8 CFR 245.21;
(26) Polish and Hungarian Parolees who were paroled into the United States from November 1, 1989 to December 31, 1991, under section 646(b) of the IIRIRA, Public Law 104-208, Div. C, Title VI, Subtitle D (Sept. 30, 1996), 8 U.S.C. 1255 note;
(27) Applicants adjusting status who qualify for a benefit under Section 7611 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020,
Public Law 116-92,
113 Stat. 1198, 2309 (December 20, 2019) (Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness), later extended by Section 901 of Division O, Title IX of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, Public Law 116-260 (December 27, 2020) (Adjustment of Status for Liberian Nationals Extension);
(28) Certain Syrian nationals adjusting status under Public Law 106-378; and
(29) Any other categories of aliens exempt under any other law from the public charge ground of inadmissibility provisions under section 212(a)(4) of the Act.
(b)
Limited Exemption.
Aliens described in paragraphs (a)(18) through (21) of this section must submit an Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA if they are applying for adjustment of status based on an employment-based petition that requires such an affidavit of support as described in section 212(a)(4)(D) of the Act.
(c)
Waivers.
A waiver for the public charge ground of inadmissibility may be authorized based on statutory or regulatory authority, for the following categories of aliens:
(1) Applicants for admission as nonimmigrants under 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act;
(2) Nonimmigrants admitted under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act applying for adjustment of status under section 245(j) of the Act (witnesses or informants); and
(3) Any other category of aliens who are eligible to receive a waiver of the public charge ground of inadmissibility.
[87 FR 55636, Sept. 9, 2022]
Pt. 213

# PART 213—ADMISSION OF ALIENS ON GIVING BOND OR CASH DEPOSIT

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103; 1183; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 213.1
Admission under bond or cash deposit.
(a)
Public charge bonds for adjustment of status applicants.
If, in the course of adjudicating an application for adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident, USCIS determines that the alien is inadmissible only
under section 212(a)(4) of the Act, and that the application for adjustment of status is otherwise approvable, USCIS may invite the alien to submit a public charge bond as a condition of approval of the adjustment of status application. Subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and 8 CFR 103.6, USCIS will set the bond amount and provide instructions for the submission of a public charge bond. Public charge bonds may be in the form of a surety bond or an agreement covering cash deposits.
(b)
Public charge bonds requested by consular officers.
USCIS may accept a public charge bond before the issuance of an immigrant visa to the alien upon receipt of a request directly from a United States consular officer or upon presentation by an interested person of a notification from the consular officer requiring such a bond. The consular officer will set the amount of any such bond subject to paragraph (c) of this section and will provide instructions for the submission of a public charge bond. Upon acceptance of such a bond, USCIS will notify the U.S. consular officer who requested the bond, giving the date and place of acceptance and the amount of the bond.
(c)
Form and amount of public charge bonds.
All bonds and agreements covering cash deposits given as a condition of admission or adjustment of status of an alien under section 213 of the Act must be executed on a form designated by USCIS for that purpose and be in the sum set by USCIS under paragraph (a) of this section for adjustment of status applicants or the consular officer under paragraph (b) of this section for immigrant visa applicants but not less than $1,000. USCIS will provide a receipt to the alien or an interested person acting on the alien's behalf on a form designated by USCIS for such purpose. All public charge bonds are subject to the procedures established in 8 CFR 103.6 relating to bond riders, acceptable sureties, cancellation of bonds, and breach of bonds.
[87 FR 55639, Sept. 9, 2022]
Pt. 213a

# PART 213a—AFFIDAVITS OF SUPPORT ON BEHALF OF IMMIGRANTS
Sec.
213a.1
Definitions.
213a.2
Use of affidavit of support.
213a.3
Change of address.
213a.4
Actions for reimbursement, public notice, and congressional reports.
213a.5
Relationship of this part to other affidavits of support.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1183a; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
62 FR 54352, Oct. 20, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 213a.1
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
Domicile
means the place where a sponsor has his or her principal residence, as defined in section 101(a)(33) of the Act, with the intention to maintain that residence for the foreseeable future.
Federal poverty line
means the level of income equal to the poverty guidelines as issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 9902 that is applicable to a household of the size involved. For purposes of considering the Form I-864, Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the Act, the Service and Consular Posts will use the most recent income-poverty guidelines published in the
Federal Register
by the Department of Health and Human Services. These guidelines are updated annually, and the Service and Consular Posts will begin to use updated guidelines on the first day of the second month after the date the guidelines are published in the
Federal Register.
Household income
means the income used to determine whether the sponsor meets the minimum income requirements under sections 213A(f)(1)(E), 213A(f)(3), or 213A(f)(5) of the Act. It includes the income of the sponsor, and of the sponsor's spouse and any other person included in determining the sponsor's household size, if the spouse or other person is at least 18 years old and has signed the form designated by USCIS for this purpose, on behalf of the sponsor and intending immigrants. The “household income” may not,
however, include the income of an intending immigrant, unless the intending immigrant is either the sponsor's spouse or has the same principal residence as the sponsor and the preponderance of the evidence shows that the intending immigrant's income results from the intending immigrant's lawful employment in the United States or from some other lawful source that will continue to be available to the intending immigrant after he or she acquires permanent resident status. The prospect of employment in the United States that has not yet actually begun will not be sufficient to meet this requirement.
Household size
means the number obtained by adding the number of persons specified in this definition. In calculating household size, no individual shall be counted more than once. If the intending immigrant's spouse or child is a citizen or already holds the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, then the sponsor should not include that spouse or child in determining the total household size, unless the intending immigrant's spouse or child is a dependent of the sponsor.
(1) In all cases, the household size includes the sponsor, the sponsor's spouse and all of the sponsor's children, as defined in section 101(b)(1) of the Act (other than a stepchild who meets the requirements of section 101(b)(1)(B) of the Act, if the stepchild does not reside with the sponsor, is not claimed by the sponsor as a dependent for tax purposes, and is not seeking to immigrate based on the stepparent/stepchild relationship), unless these children have reached the age of majority under the law of the place of domicile and the sponsor did not claim them as dependents on the sponsor's Federal income tax return for the most recent tax year. The following persons must also be included in calculating the sponsor's household size: Any other persons (whether related to the sponsor or not) whom the sponsor has claimed as dependents on the sponsor's Federal income tax return for the most recent tax year, even if such persons do not have the same principal residence as the sponsor, plus the number of aliens the sponsor has sponsored under any other affidavit of support for whom the sponsor's support obligation has not terminated, plus the number of aliens to be sponsored under the current affidavit of support, even if such aliens do not or will not have the same principal residence as the sponsor. If a child, as defined in section 101(b)(1) of the Act, or spouse of the principal intending immigrant is an alien who does not currently reside in the United States and who either is not seeking to immigrate at the same time as, or will not seek to immigrate within six months of the principal intending immigrant's immigration, the sponsor may exclude that child or spouse in calculating the sponsor's household size.
(2) If the sponsor chooses to do so, the sponsor may add to the number of persons specified in the first part of this definition the number of relatives (as defined in this section) of the sponsor who have the same principal residence as the sponsor and whose income will be relied on to meet the requirements of section 213A of the Act and this part.
Immigration Officer,
solely for purposes of this part, includes a Consular Officer, as defined by section 101(a)(9) of the Act, as well as an Immigration Officer, as defined by § 103.1(j) of this chapter.
Income
means an individual's total income (adjusted gross income for those who file IRS Form 1040EZ) for purposes of the individual's U.S. Federal income tax liability, including a joint income tax return (e.g., line 22 on the 2004 IRS Form 1040, line 15 on the 2004 IRS Form 1040A, or line 4 on the 2004 IRS Form 1040EZ or the corresponding line on any future revision of these IRS Forms). Only an individual's Federal income tax return—that is, neither a state or territorial income tax return nor an income tax return filed with a foreign government—shall be filed with an affidavit of support, unless the individual had no duty to file a Federal income tax return, and claims that his or her state, territorial or foreign taxable income is sufficient to establish the sufficiency of the affidavit of support.
Intending immigrant
means any beneficiary of an immigrant visa petition
filed under section 204 of the Act, including any alien who will accompany or follow-to-join the principal beneficiary.
Joint sponsor
means any individual who meets the requirements of section 213A(f)(1)(A), (B), (C), and (E) of the Act and 8 CFR 213a.2(c)(1)(i), and who, as permitted by section 213A(f)(5)(A) of the Act, is willing to submit an affidavit of support and accept joint and several liability with the sponsor or substitute sponsor, in any case in which the sponsor's or substitute sponsor's household income is not sufficient to satisfy the requirements of section 213A of the Act.
Means-tested public benefit
means either a Federal means-tested public benefit, which is any public benefit funded in whole or in part by funds provided by the Federal Government that the Federal agency administering the Federal funds has determined to be a Federal means-tested public benefit under the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Public Law 104-193, or a State means-tested public benefit, which is any public benefit for which no Federal funds are provided that a State, State agency, or political subdivision of a State has determined to be a means-tested public benefit. No benefit shall be considered to be a means-tested public benefit if it is a benefit described in sections 401(b), 411(b), 422(b) or 423(d) of Public Law 104-193.
Program official
means the officer or employee of any Federal, State, or local government agency or of any private agency that administers any means-tested public benefit program who has authority to act on the agency's behalf in seeking reimbursement of means-tested public benefits.
Relative
means a husband, wife, father, mother, child, adult son, adult daughter, brother, or sister.
Significant ownership interest
means an ownership interest of 5 percent or more in a for-profit entity that filed an immigrant visa petition to accord a prospective employee an immigrant status under section 203(b) of the Act.
Sponsor
means an individual who is either required to execute or has executed an affidavit of support under this part.
Sponsored immigrant
means any alien who was an intending immigrant, once that person has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence, so that the affidavit of support filed for that person under this part has entered into force.
Substitute sponsor
means an individual who meets the requirements of section 213A(f)(1)(A), (B), (C), and (E) of the Act and 8 CFR 213a.2(c)(1)(i), who is related to the principal intending immigrant in one of the ways described in section 213A(f)(5)(B) of the Act, and who is willing to sign the affidavit of support in place of the now-deceased person who filed ta relative or fiancé(e) petition that provides the basis for the intending immigrant's ability to seek permanent residence.
[62 FR 54352, Oct. 20, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 35749, June 21, 2006; 76 FR 53788, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 213a.2
Use of affidavit of support.
(a)
Applicability of section 213a affidavit of support.
(1)(i)(A) In any case specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an intending immigrant is inadmissible as an alien likely to become a public charge, unless the qualified sponsor specified in paragraph (b) of this section or a substitute sponsor and, if necessary, a joint sponsor, has executed on behalf of the intending immigrant an affidavit of support on the applicable form designated by USCIS in accordance with the requirements of section 213A of the Act and the form instructions. Each reference in this section to the affidavit of support or the form is deemed to be a reference to all such forms designated by USCIS for use by a sponsor for compliance with section 213A of the Act.
(B) If the intending immigrant claims that, under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A), (C), or (E) of this section, the intending immigrant is exempt from the requirement to file an affidavit of support, the intending immigrant must include with his or her application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status an exemption request on the form designated by USCIS for this purpose.
(ii) An affidavit of support is executed when a sponsor signs and submits the appropriate forms in accordance with the form instructions to
USCIS or the Department of State, as appropriate.
(iii) A separate affidavit of support is required for each principal beneficiary.
(iv) Each immigrant who will accompany the principal intending immigrant must be included on the affidavit. See paragraph (f) of this section for further information concerning immigrants who intend to accompany or follow the principal intending immigrant to the United States.
(v)(A) Except as provided for under paragraph (a)(1)(v)(B) of this section, the Department of State consular officer, immigration officer, or immigration judge will determine the sufficiency of the affidavit of support based on the sponsor's, substitute sponsor's, or joint sponsor's reasonably expected household income in the year in which the intending immigrant filed the application for an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status, and based on the evidence submitted with the affidavit of support and the Poverty Guidelines in effect when the intending immigrant filed the application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status.
(B) If more than one year passes between the filing of the affidavit of support or required affidavit of support attachment form and the hearing, interview, or examination of the intending immigrant concerning the intending immigrant's application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status, and the Department of State officer, immigration officer or immigration judge determines, in the exercise of discretion, that the particular facts of the case make the submission of additional evidence necessary to the proper adjudication of the case, then the Department of State officer, immigration officer or immigration judge may direct the intending immigrant to submit additional evidence. A Department of State officer or immigration officer shall make the request in writing, and provide the intending immigrant not less than 30 days to submit the additional evidence. An immigration judge may direct the intending immigrant to submit additional evidence and also set the deadline for submission of the initial evidence in any manner permitted under subpart C of 8 CFR part 1003 and any local rules of the Immigration Court. If additional evidence is required under this paragraph, an intending immigrant must submit additional evidence (including copies or transcripts of any income tax returns for the most recent tax year) concerning the income or employment of the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member in the year in which the Department of State officer, immigration officer, or immigration judge makes the request for additional evidence. In this case, the sufficiency of the affidavit of support and any required affidavit of support attachment will be determined based on the sponsor's, substitute sponsor's, or joint sponsor's reasonably expected household income in the year the Department of State officer, immigration officer or immigration judge makes the request for additional evidence, and based on the evidence submitted in response to the request for additional evidence and on the Poverty Guidelines in effect when the request for evidence was issued.
(2)(i) Except for cases specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies to any application for an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status filed on or after December 19, 1997, in which an intending immigrant seeks an immigrant visa, admission as an immigrant, or adjustment of status as:
(A) An immediate relative under section 201(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Act, including orphans and any alien admitted as a K nonimmigrant when the alien seeks adjustment of status;
(B) A family-based immigrant under section 203(a) of the Act; or
(C) An employment-based immigrant under section 203(b) of the Act, if a relative (as defined in 8 CFR 213a.1) of the intending immigrant is a citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence who either filed the employment-based immigrant petition or has a significant ownership interest in the entity that filed the immigrant visa petition on behalf of the intending immigrant. An affidavit of support under this section is not required, however, if the relative is a brother or sister of the intending immigrant, unless the brother or sister is a citizen.
(ii) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply if the intending immigrant:
(A) Filed a visa petition on his or her own behalf pursuant to section 204(a)(1)(A)(ii), (iii), or (iv) or section 204(a)(1)(B)(ii) or (iii) of the Act, or who seeks to accompany or follow-to-join an immigrant who filed a visa petition on his or his own behalf pursuant to section 204(a)(1)(A)(ii), (iii), or (iv) or section 204(a)(1)(B)(ii) or (iii) of the Act;
(B) Seeks admission as an immigrant on or after December 19, 1997, in a category specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section with an immigrant visa issued on the basis of an immigrant visa application filed with the Department of State officer before December 19, 1997;
(C) Establishes, on the basis of the alien's own Social Security Administration record or those of his or her spouse or parent(s), that he or she has already worked, or under section 213A(a)(3)(B) of the Act, can already be credited with, 40 qualifying quarters of coverage as defined under title II of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 401,
et seq;
(D) Is a child admitted under section 211(a) of the Act and 8 CFR 211.1(b)(1); or
(E) Is the child of a citizen, if the child is not likely to become a public charge (other than because of the provision of section 212(a)(4)(C) of the Act), and the child's lawful admission for permanent residence will result automatically in the child's acquisition of citizenship under section 320 of the Act, as amended. This exception applies to an alien orphan if the citizen parent(s) has (or have) legally adopted the alien orphan before the alien orphan's acquisition of permanent residence, and if both adoptive parents personally saw and observed the alien orphan before or during the foreign adoption proceeding. An affidavit of support under this part is still required if the citizen parent(s) will adopt the alien orphan in the United States only after the alien orphan's acquisition of permanent residence. If the citizen parent(s) adopted the alien orphan abroad, but at least one of the adoptive parents did not see and observe the alien orphan before or during the foreign adoption proceeding, then an affidavit of support under this part is still required, unless the citizen parent establishes that, under the law of the State of the alien orphan's intended residence in the United States, the foreign adoption decree is entitled to recognition without the need for a formal administrative or judicial proceeding in the State of proposed residence. In the case of a child who immigrates as a Convention adoptee, as defined in 8 CFR 204.301, this exception applies if the child was adopted by the petitioner in the Convention country. An affidavit of support under this part is still required in the case of a child who immigrates as a Convention adoptee if the petitioner will adopt the child in the United States only after the child's acquisition of permanent residence.
(b)
Affidavit of support sponsors.
The following individuals must execute an affidavit of support on behalf of the intending immigrant in order for the intending immigrant to be found admissible on public charge grounds:
(1)
For immediate relatives and family-based immigrants.
The person who filed a relative, orphan or fiancé(e) petition, the approval of which forms the basis of the intending immigrant's eligibility to apply for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status as an immediate relative or a family-based immigrant, must execute an affidavit of support on behalf of the intending immigrant. If the intending immigrant is the beneficiary of more than one approved immigrant visa petition, it is the person who filed the petition that is actually the basis for the intending immigrant's eligibility to apply for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status who must file an affidavit of support.
(2)
For employment-based immigrants.
A relative of an intending immigrant seeking an immigrant visa under section 203(b) of the Act must file a if the relative either filed the immigrant visa petition on behalf of the intending immigrant or owns a significant ownership interest in an entity that filed an immigrant visa petition on behalf of the intending immigrant, but only if the relative is a citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. If the intending immigrant is
the beneficiary of more than one relative's employment-based immigrant visa petition, it is the relative who filed the petition that is actually the basis for the intending immigrant's eligibility to apply for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status who must file an affidavit of support.
(c)
Sponsorship requirements.
(1)(i)
General.
A sponsor must be:
(A) At least 18 years of age;
(B) Domiciled in the United States or any territory or possession of the United States; and
(C)(
1
) A citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the case described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section; or
(
2
) A citizen or national or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence if the individual is a substitute sponsor or joint sponsor.
(ii)
Determination of domicile.
(A) If the sponsor is residing abroad, but only temporarily, the sponsor bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the sponsor's domicile (as that term is defined in 8 CFR 213a.1) remains in the United States,
provided,
that a permanent resident who is living abroad temporarily is considered to be domiciled in the United States if the permanent resident has applied for and obtained the preservation of residence benefit under section 316(b) or section 317 of the Act,
and provided further
, that a citizen who is living abroad temporarily is considered to be domiciled in the United States if the citizen's employment abroad meets the requirements of section 319(b)(1) of the Act.
(B) If the sponsor is not domiciled in the United States, the sponsor can still sign and submit an affidavit of support so long as the sponsor satisfies the Department of State officer, immigration officer, or immigration judge, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the sponsor will establish a domicile in the United States on or before the date of the principal intending immigrant's admission or adjustment of status. The intending immigrant will be inadmissible under section 212(a)(4) of the Act, and the immigration officer or immigration judge must deny the intending immigrant's application for admission or adjustment of status, if the sponsor has not, in fact, established a domicile in the United States on or before the date of the decision on the principal intending immigrant's application for admission or adjustment of status. In the case of a sponsor who comes to the United States intending to establish his or her principal residence in the United States at the same time as the principal intending immigrant's arrival and application for admission at a port-of-entry, the sponsor shall be deemed to have established a domicile in the United States for purposes of this paragraph, unless the sponsor is also a permanent resident alien and the sponsor's own application for admission is denied and the sponsor leaves the United States under a removal order or as a result of the sponsor's withdrawal of the application for admission.
(2)
Demonstration of ability to support intending immigrants.
In order for the intending immigrant to overcome the public charge ground of inadmissibility, the sponsor must demonstrate the means to maintain the intending immigrant at an annual income of at least 125 percent of the Federal poverty line. If the sponsor is on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States (other than active duty for training) and the intending immigrant is the sponsor's spouse or child, the sponsor's ability to maintain income must equal at least 100 percent of the Federal poverty line.
(i)
Proof of income.
(A) The sponsor must include with an affidavit of support either a photocopy or an Internal Revenue Service-issued transcript of his or her complete Federal income tax return for the most recent taxable year (counting from the date of the signing, rather than the filing, of an affidavit of support. However, the sponsor may, at his or her option, submit tax returns for the three most recent years if the sponsor believes that these additional tax returns may help in establishing the sponsor's ability to maintain his or her income at the applicable threshold set forth in the Poverty Guidelines. Along with each transcript or photocopy, the sponsor must also submit as initial evidence copies of all schedules filed with each return and (if the sponsor submits a photocopy, rather than
an IRS transcript of the tax return(s)) all Forms W-2 (if the sponsor relies on income from employment) and Forms 1099 (if the sponsor relies on income from sources documented on Forms 1099) in meeting the income threshold. The sponsor may also include as initial evidence: Letter(s) evidencing his or her current employment and income, paycheck stub(s) (showing earnings for the most recent six months, financial statements, or other evidence of the sponsor's anticipated household income for the year in which the intending immigrant files the application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status. By executing an affidavit of support, the sponsor certifies under penalty of perjury under United States law that the evidence of his or her current household income is true and correct and that each transcript or photocopy of each income tax return is a true and correct transcript or photocopy of the return that the sponsor filed with the Internal Revenue Service for that taxable year.
(B) If the sponsor had no legal duty to file a Federal income tax return for the most recent tax year, the sponsor must explain why he or she had no legal duty to a file a Federal income tax return for that year. If the sponsor claims he or she had no legal duty to file for any reason other than the level of the sponsor's income for that year, the initial evidence submitted with an affidavit of support must also include any evidence of the amount and source of the income that the sponsor claims was exempt from taxation and a copy of the provisions of any statute, treaty, or regulation that supports the claim that he or she had no duty to file an income tax return with respect to that income. If the sponsor had no legal obligation to file a Federal income tax return, he or she may submit other evidence of annual income. The fact that a sponsor had no duty to file a Federal income tax return does not relieve the sponsor of the duty to file an affidavit of support.
(C)(
1
) The sponsor's ability to meet the income requirement will be determined based on the sponsor's household income. In establishing the household income, the sponsor may rely entirely on his or her personal income, if it is sufficient to meet the income requirement. The sponsor may also rely on the income of the sponsor's spouse and of any other person included in determining the sponsor's household size, if the spouse or other person is at least 18 years old and has completed and signed an affidavit of support attachment. A person does not need to be a U.S. citizen, national, or alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in order to sign an affidavit of support attachment.
(
2
) Each individual who signs an affidavit of support attachment agrees, in consideration of the sponsor's signing of an affidavit of support, to provide to the sponsor as much financial assistance as may be necessary to enable the sponsor to maintain the intending immigrants at the annual income level required by section 213A(a)(1)(A) of the Act, to be jointly and severally liable for any reimbursement obligation that the sponsor may incur, and to submit to the personal jurisdiction of any court that has subject matter jurisdiction over a civil suit to enforce the contract or the affidavit of support. The sponsor, as a party to the contract, may bring suit to enforce the contract. The intending immigrants and any Federal, state, or local agency or private entity that provides a means-tested public benefit to an intending immigrant are third party beneficiaries of the contract between the sponsor and the other individual or individuals on whose income the sponsor relies and may bring an action to enforce the contract in the same manner as third party beneficiaries of other contracts.
(
3
) If there is no spouse or child immigrating with the intending immigrant, then there will be no need for the intending immigrant to sign a Form I-864A, even if the sponsor will rely on the continuing income of the intending immigrant to meet the income requirement. If, however, the sponsor seeks to rely on an intending immigrant's continuing income to establish the sponsor's ability to support the intending immigrant's spouse or children, then the intending immigrant whose income is to be relied on must sign the .
(
4
) If the sponsor relies on the income of any individual who has signed an affidavit of support attachment, the sponsor must also include with an affidavit of support and an affidavit of support attachment, with respect to the person who signed an affidavit of support attachment, the initial evidence required under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section. The household member's tax return(s) must be for the same tax year as the sponsor's tax return(s). An individual who signs an affidavit of support attachment certifies, under penalty of perjury, that the submitted transcript or photocopy of the tax return is a true and correct transcript or photocopy of the Federal income tax return filed with the Internal Revenue Service, and that the information concerning that person's employment and income is true and correct.
(
5
) If the person who signs the affidavit of support attachment is not an intending immigrant, and is any person other than the sponsor's spouse or a claimed dependent of the sponsor, the sponsor must also attach proof that the person is a relative (as defined in 8 CFR 213a.1) of the sponsor and that the affidavit of support attachment signer has the same principal residence as the sponsor. If an intending immigrant signs an affidavit of support attachment, the sponsor must also provide proof that the sponsored immigrant has the same principal residence as the sponsor, unless the sponsored immigrant is the sponsor's spouse.
(D)
Effect of failure to file income tax returns.
If a sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member did not file a Federal income tax return for the year for which a transcript or photocopy must be provided, the affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment will not be considered sufficient to satisfy the requirements of section 213A of the Act, even if the household income meets the requirements of section 213A of the Act, unless the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member proves, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he or she had no duty to file. If the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor or household member cannot prove that he or she had no duty to file, then the affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment will not be considered sufficient to satisfy the requirements of section 213A of the Act until the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member proves that he or she has satisfied the obligation to file the tax return and provides a transcript or copy of the return.
(ii)
Determining the sufficiency of an affidavit of support.
The sufficiency of an affidavit of support shall be determined in accordance with this paragraph.
(A)
Income.
The sponsor must first calculate the total income attributable to the sponsor under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section for the year in which the intending immigrant filed the application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status.
(B)
Number of persons to be supported.
The sponsor must then determine his or her household size as defined in 8 CFR 213a.1.
(C)
Sufficiency of income.
Except as provided in this paragraph, or in paragraph (a)(1)(v)(B) of this section, the sponsor's affidavit of support shall be considered sufficient to satisfy the requirements of section 213A of the Act and this section if the reasonably expected household income for the year in which the intending immigrant filed the application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status, calculated under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, would equal at least 125 percent of the Federal poverty line for the sponsor's household size as defined in 8 CFR 213a.1, under the Poverty Guidelines in effect when the intending immigrant filed the application for an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status, except that the sponsor's income need only equal at least 100 percent of the Federal poverty line for the sponsor's household size, if the sponsor is on active duty (other than for training) in the Armed Forces of the United States and the intending immigrant is the sponsor's spouse or child. The sponsor's household income for the year in which the intending immigrant filed the application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status shall be given the greatest evidentiary weight; any tax return and other information relating to the sponsor's financial history
will serve as evidence tending to show whether the sponsor is likely to be able to maintain his or her income in the future. If the projected household income for the year in which the intending immigrant filed the application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status meets the applicable income threshold, the affidavit of support may be held to be insufficient on the basis of the household income but only if, on the basis of specific facts, including a material change in employment or income history of the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor or household member, the number of aliens included in affidavit of support that the sponsor has signed but that have not yet entered into force in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, or other relevant facts, it is reasonable to infer that the sponsor will not be able to maintain his or her household income at a level sufficient to meet his or her support obligations.
(iii)
Inability to meet income requirement.
(A) If the sponsor is unable to meet the minimum income requirement in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, the intending immigrant is inadmissible under section 212(a)(4) of the Act unless:
(
1
) The sponsor, the intending immigrant or both, can meet the significant assets provision of paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section; or
(
2
) A joint sponsor executes a separate affidavit of support.
(B)
Significant assets.
The sponsor may submit evidence of the sponsor's ownership of significant assets, such as savings accounts, stocks, bonds, certificates of deposit, real estate, or other assets. An intending immigrant may submit evidence of the intending immigrant's assets as a part of the affidavit of support, even if the intending immigrant is not required to sign an affidavit of support attachment. The assets of any person who has signed an affidavit of support attachment may also be considered in determining whether the assets are sufficient to meet this requirement. To qualify as “significant assets” the combined cash value of all the assets (the total value of the assets less any offsetting liabilities) must exceed:
(
1
) If the intending immigrant is the spouse or child of a United States citizen (and the child has reached his or her 18th birthday), three times the difference between the sponsor's household income and the Federal poverty line for the sponsor's household size (including all immigrants sponsored in any affidavit of support in force or submitted under this section);
(
2
) If the intending immigrant is an alien orphan who will be adopted in the United States after the alien orphan acquires permanent residence (or in whose case the parents will need to seek a formal recognition of a foreign adoption under the law of the State of the intending immigrant's proposed residence because at least one of the parents did not see the child before or during the adoption), and who will, as a result of the adoption or formal recognition of the foreign adoption, acquire citizenship under section 320 of the Act, the difference between the sponsor's household income and the Federal poverty line for the sponsor's household size (including all immigrants sponsored in any affidavit of support in force or submitted under this section);
(
3
) In all other cases, five times the difference between the sponsor's household income and the Federal poverty line for the sponsor's household size (including all immigrants sponsored in any affidavit of support in force or submitted under this section).
(C)
Joint sponsor.
A joint sponsor must execute a separate affidavit of support on behalf of the intending immigrant(s) and be willing to accept joint and several liabilities with the sponsor or substitute sponsor. A joint sponsor must meet all the eligibility requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that the joint sponsor is not required to file a visa petition on behalf of the intending immigrant. The joint sponsor must demonstrate his or her ability to support the intending immigrant in the manner specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. A joint sponsor's household income must meet or exceed the income requirement in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section unless the joint sponsor can demonstrate significant assets as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of
this section. The joint sponsor's household income must equal at least 125 percent of the Poverty Guidelines for the joint sponsor's household size, unless the joint sponsor is on active duty in the Armed Forces and the intending immigrant is the joint sponsor's spouse or child, in which case the joint sponsor's household income is sufficient if it equals at least 100 percent of the Poverty Guidelines for the joint sponsor's household size. An intending immigrant may not have more than one joint sponsor, but, if the joint sponsor's household income is not sufficient to meet the income requirement with respect to the principal intending immigrant, any spouse and all the children who, under section 203(d) of the Act, seek to accompany the principal intending immigrant, then the joint sponsor may specify on the affidavit that it is submitted only on behalf of the principal intending immigrant and those accompanying family members specifically listed on the affidavit. The remaining accompanying family members will then be inadmissible under section 212(a)(4) of the Act unless a second joint sponsor submits an affidavit(s) on behalf of all the remaining family members who seek to accompany the principal intending immigrant and who are not included in the first joint sponsor's affidavit. There may not be more than two joint sponsors for the family group consisting of the principal intending immigrant and the accompanying spouse and children.
(D)
Substitute sponsor.
In a family-sponsored case, if the visa petitioner dies after approval of the visa petition, but the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services determines, under 8 CFR 205.1(a)(3)(i)(C), that for humanitarian reasons it would not be appropriate to revoke approval of the visa petition, then a substitute sponsor, as defined in 8 CFR 213a.1, may sign an affidavit of support. The substitute sponsor must meet all the requirements of this section that would have applied to the visa petitioner, had the visa petitioner survived and been the sponsor. The substitute sponsor's household income must equal at least 125% of the Poverty Guidelines for the substitute sponsor's household size, unless the intending immigrant is the substitute sponsor's spouse or child and the substitute sponsor is on active duty in the Armed Forces (other than active duty for training), in which case the substitute sponsor's household income is sufficient if it equals at least 100% of the Poverty Guidelines for the substitute sponsor's household size. If the substitute sponsor's household income is not sufficient to meet the requirements of section 213A(a)(f)(1)(E) of the Act and paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the alien will be inadmissible unless a joint sponsor signs an affidavit of support.
(iv)
Remaining inadmissibility on public charge grounds.
Notwithstanding the filing of a sufficient affidavit of support under section 213A of the Act and this section, an alien may be found to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(4) of the Act if the alien's case includes evidence of specific facts that, when considered in light of section 212(a)(4)(B) of the Act, support a reasonable inference that the alien is likely at any time to become a public charge.
(v)
Verification of employment, income, and assets.
The Federal Government may pursue verification of any information provided on or with an affidavit of support, including information on employment, income, or assets, with the employer, financial or other institutions, the Internal Revenue Service, or the Social Security Administration. To facilitate this verification process, the sponsor, joint sponsor, substitute sponsor, or household member must sign and submit any necessary waiver form when directed to do so by the immigration officer, immigration judge, or Department of State officer who has jurisdiction to adjudicate the case to which the affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment relates. A sponsor's, substitute sponsor's, joint sponsor's, or household member's failure or refusal to sign any waiver needed to verify the information when directed to do so constitutes a withdrawal of the affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment, so that, in adjudicating the intending immigrant's application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status, the affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment will be deemed not to have been filed.
(vi)
Effect of fraud or material concealment or misrepresentation.
An affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment is insufficient to satisfy the requirements of section 213A of the Act and this part, and the affidavit of support shall be found insufficient to establish that the intending immigrant is not likely to become a public charge, if the Department of State officer, immigration officer or immigration judge finds that an affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment is forged, counterfeited, or otherwise falsely executed, or if the affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment conceals or misrepresents facts concerning household size, household income, employment history, or any other material fact. Any person who knowingly participated in the forgery, counterfeiting, or false production of an affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment, or in any concealment or misrepresentation of any material fact, may be subject to a civil penalty under section 274C of the Act, to criminal prosecution, or to both, to the extent permitted by law. If the person is an alien, the person may also be subject to removal from the United States.
(d)
Legal effect of affidavit of support.
Execution of an affidavit of support under this section creates a contract between the sponsor and the U.S. Government for the benefit of the sponsored immigrant, and of any Federal, State, or local governmental agency or private entity that administers any means-tested public benefits program. The sponsored immigrant, or any Federal, State, or local governmental agency or private entity that provides any means-tested public benefit to the sponsored immigrant after the sponsored immigrant acquires permanent resident status, may seek enforcement of the sponsor's obligations through an appropriate civil action.
(e)
Commencement and termination of support obligation.
(1) With respect to any intending immigrant, the support obligation and change of address obligation imposed on a sponsor, substitute sponsor, or joint sponsor under an affidavit of support, and any household member's support obligation under an affidavit of support attachment, all begin when the immigration officer or the immigration judge grants the intending immigrant's application for admission as an immigrant or for adjustment of status on the basis of an application for admission or adjustment that included the affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment. Any person completing and submitting an affidavit of support as a joint sponsor or an affidavit of support attachment as a household member is not bound to any obligations under section 213A of the Act if, notwithstanding his or her signing of an affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment, the Department of State officer (in deciding an application for an immigrant visa) or the immigration officer or immigration judge (in deciding an application for admission or adjustment of status) includes in the decision a specific finding that the sponsor or substitute sponsor's own household income is sufficient to meet the income requirements under section 213A of the Act.
(2)(i) The support obligation and the change of address reporting requirement imposed on a sponsor, substitute sponsor and joint sponsor under an affidavit of support, and any household member's support obligation under an affidavit of support attachment, all terminate by operation of law when the sponsored immigrant:
(A) Becomes a citizen of the United States;
(B) Has worked, or can be credited with, 40 qualifying quarters of coverage under title II of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 401,
et seq., provided
that the sponsored immigrant is not credited with any quarter beginning after December 31, 1996, during which the sponsored immigrant receives or received any Federal means-tested public benefit;
(C) Ceases to hold the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence and departs the United States (if the sponsored immigrant has not abandoned permanent resident status, executing the form designated by USCIS for recording such action this provision will apply only if the sponsored immigrant is found in a removal proceeding to have abandoned that status while abroad);
(D) Obtains in a removal proceeding a new grant of adjustment of status as relief from removal (in this case, if the sponsored immigrant is still subject to the affidavit of support requirement under this part, then any individual(s) who signed an affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment in relation to the new adjustment application will be subject to the obligations of this part, rather than those who signed an affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment in relation to an earlier grant of admission as an immigrant or of adjustment of status); or
(E) Dies.
(ii) The support obligation under an affidavit of support also terminates if the sponsor, substitute sponsor or joint sponsor dies. A household member's obligation under an affidavit of support attachment terminates when the household member dies. The death of one person who had a support obligation under an affidavit of support or an affidavit of support attachment does not terminate the support obligation of any other sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member with respect to the same sponsored immigrant.
(3) The termination of the sponsor's, substitute sponsor's, or joint sponsor's obligations under an affidavit of support or of a household member's obligations under an affidavit of support attachment does not relieve the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member (or their respective estates) of any reimbursement obligation under section 213A(b) of the Act and this section that accrued before the support obligation terminated.
(f)
Withdrawal of affidavit of support and any required attachments.
(1) In an immigrant visa case, once the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, household member, or intending immigrant has presented a signed affidavit of support and any required attachments to a Department of State officer, the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member may disavow his or her agreement to act as sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member if he or she does so in writing and submits the document to the Department of State officer before the actual issuance of an immigrant visa to the intending immigrant. Once the intending immigrant has obtained an immigrant visa, a sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member cannot disavow his or her agreement to act as a sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member unless the person or entity who filed the visa petition withdraws the visa petition in writing, as specified in 8 CFR 205.1(a)(3)(i)(A) or 8 CFR 205.1(a)(3)(iii)(C), and also notifies the Department of State officer who issued the visa of the withdrawal of the petition.
(2) In an adjustment of status case, once the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, household member, or intending immigrant has presented a signed affidavit of support and any required attachments to an immigration officer or immigration judge, the sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member may disavow his or her agreement to act as sponsor, substitute sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member only if he or she does so in writing and submits the document to the immigration officer or immigration judge before the decision on the adjustment application.
(g)
Aliens who accompany or follow-to-join a principal intending immigrant.
(1) To avoid inadmissibility under section 212(a)(4) of the Act, an alien who applies for an immigrant visa, admission, or adjustment of status as an alien who is accompanying, as defined in 22 CFR 40.1, a principal intending immigrant must submit clear and true photocopies of any relevant affidavit(s) and attachments filed on behalf of the principal intending immigrant.
(2)(i) To avoid inadmissibility under section 212(a)(4) of the Act, an alien who applies for an immigrant visa, admission, or adjustment of status as an alien who is following-to-join a principal intending immigrant must submit a new affidavit(s) of support, together with all documents or other evidence necessary to prove that the new affidavits comply with the requirements of section 213A of the Act and 8 CFR part 213a.
(ii) When paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section requires the filing of a new affidavit for an alien who seeks to follow-
to-join a principal sponsored immigrant, the same sponsor who filed the visa petition and affidavit of support for the principal sponsored immigrant must file the new affidavit on behalf of the alien seeking to follow-to-join. If that person has died, then the alien seeking to follow-to-join is inadmissible unless a substitute sponsor, as defined by 8 CFR 213a.1, signs a new affidavit that meets the requirements of this section. Persons other than the person or persons who signed the original joint affidavits on behalf of the principal sponsored immigrant may sign a new joint affidavit on behalf of an alien who seeks to follow-to-join a principal sponsored immigrant.
(iii) If a joint sponsor is needed in the case of an alien who seeks to follow-to-join a principal sponsored immigrant, and the principal sponsored immigrant also required a joint sponsor when the principal sponsored immigrant immigrated, that same person may, but is not required to be, the joint sponsor for the alien who seeks to follow-to-join the principal sponsored immigrant.
[62 FR 54352, Oct. 20, 1997; 62 FR 60122, Nov. 6, 1997; 62 FR 64048, Dec. 3, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 35750, June 21, 2006; 72 FR 56867, Oct. 4, 2007; 76 FR 53788, Aug. 29, 2011; 76 FR 73477, Nov. 29, 2011]
§ 213a.3
Change of address.
(a)
Submission of address change
—(1)
Filing requirements.
If the address of a sponsor (including a substitute sponsor or joint sponsor) changes while the sponsor's support obligation is in effect, the sponsor shall file a change of address notice within 30 days, in a manner as prescribed by USCIS on its address change form instructions.
(2)
Proof of mailing.
USCIS will accept a photocopy of the change of address form together with proof of the form's delivery to USCIS as evidence that the sponsor has complied with this requirement.
(3)
Electronic notices.
USCIS will provide the sponsor with a receipt notice for an address change.
(4)
Alien sponsors.
If the sponsor is an alien, the sponsor must still comply with the requirements of 8 CFR 265.1 to notify USCIS of his or her change of address.
(b)
Civil penalty.
If the sponsor fails to give notice in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, DHS may impose on the sponsor a civil penalty in an amount within the penalty range established in section 213A(d)(2)(A) of the Act. Except, if the sponsor, knowing that the sponsored immigrant has received any means-tested public benefit, fails to give notice in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, DHS may impose on the sponsor a civil penalty in an amount within the penalty range established in section 213A(d)(2)(B) of the Act. The procedure for imposing a civil penalty is established at 8 CFR part 280.
[76 FR 53789, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 213a.4
Actions for reimbursement, public notice, and congressional reports.
(a)
Requests for reimbursement; commencement of civil action
—(1)
By agencies.
(i) If an agency that provides a means-tested public benefit to a sponsored immigrant wants to seek reimbursement from a sponsor, household member, or joint sponsor, the program official must arrange for service of a written request for reimbursement upon the sponsor, household member, or joint sponsor, by personal service, as defined by 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2), except that the person making personal service need not be a Federal Government officer or employee.
(ii) The request for reimbursement must specify the date the sponsor, household member, or joint sponsor's support obligation commenced (this is the date the sponsored immigrant became a permanent resident), the sponsored immigrant's name, alien registration number, address, and date of birth, as well as the types of means-tested public benefit(s) that the sponsored immigrant received, the dates the sponsored immigrant received the means-tested public benefit(s), and the total amount of the means-tested public benefit(s) received.
(iii) It is not necessary to make a separate request for each type of means-tested public benefit, nor for each separate payment. The agency may instead aggregate in a single request all benefit payments the agency has made as of the date of the request.
A state or local government may make a single reimbursement request on behalf of all of the state or local government agencies that have provided means-tested public benefits.
(iv) So that the sponsor, household member, or joint sponsor may verify the accuracy of the request, the request for reimbursement must include an itemized statement supporting the claim for reimbursement. The request for reimbursement must also include a notification to the sponsor, household member, or joint sponsor that the sponsor, household member, or joint sponsor must, within 45 days of the date of service, respond to the request for reimbursement either by paying the reimbursement or by arranging to commence payments pursuant to a payment schedule that is agreeable to the program official.
(v) Prior to filing a lawsuit against a sponsor, household member, or joint sponsor to enforce the sponsor, household member, or joint sponsor's support obligation under section 213A(b)(2) of the Act, a Federal, state, or local governmental agency or a private entity must wait 45 days from the date it serves a written request for reimbursement in accordance with this section.
(2)
By the sponsored immigrant.
Section 213A(b) of the Act does not require a sponsored immigrant to request the sponsor or joint sponsor to comply with the support obligation, before bringing an action to compel compliance.
(3)
Role of USCIS and DHS.
Upon the receipt of a duly issued subpoena, USCIS may provide a certified copy of an affidavit of support that has been filed on behalf of a specific alien for use as evidence in a civil action to enforce an affidavit of support, and may also disclose the last known address and social security number of the sponsor, substitute sponsor, or joint sponsor. Requesting information through the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlement (SAVE) Program is sufficient, and a subpoena is not required, to obtain the sponsored immigrant's current immigration or citizenship status or the name, social security number and last known address of a sponsor, substitute sponsor, or joint sponsor.
(b)
Designation of means-tested public benefits.
Federal, State, and local government agencies should issue public notice of determinations regarding which benefits are considered “means-tested public benefits” prior to December 19, 1997, the date the new affidavit of support goes into effect, or as soon as possible thereafter. Additional notices should be issued whenever an agency revises its determination of which benefits are considered “means-tested public benefits.” A sponsor, joint sponsor, or household member is not liable to reimburse any agency for any benefit with respect to which a public notice of the determination that the benefit is a means-tested public benefit was not published until after the date the benefit was first provided to the immigrant.
(c)
Congressional reports.
(1) For purposes of section 213A(i)(3) of the Act, USCIS will consider a sponsor or joint sponsor to be in compliance with the financial obligations of section 213A of the Act unless a party that has obtained a final judgment enforcing the sponsor or joint sponsor's obligations under section 213A(a)(1)(A) or 213A(b) of the Act has provided a copy of the final judgment to the USCIS by mailing a certified copy to the address listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The copy should be accompanied by a cover letter that includes the reference “Civil Judgments for Congressional Reports under section 213A(i)(3) of the Act.” Failure to file a certified copy of the final civil judgment in accordance with this section has no effect on the plaintiff's ability to collect on the judgment pursuant to law.
(2) If a Federal, state, or local agency or private entity that administers any means-tested public benefit makes a determination under section 421(e) of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 in the case of any sponsored immigrant, the program official shall send written notice of the determination, including the name of the sponsored immigrant and of the sponsor, to the address listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The written notice should include the reference “Determinations
under 421(e) of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996.”
(3) The address referred to in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section is: Office of Program and Regulation Development, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., Washington, DC, 20529.
[62 FR 54352, Oct. 20, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 35755, June 21, 2006; 76 FR 53790, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 213a.5
Relationship of this part to other affidavits of support.
Nothing in this part precludes the continued use of other affidavits of support provided by USCIS in a case other than a case described in § 213a.2(a)(2). The obligations of section 213A of the Act do not bind a person who executes such other USCIS affidavits of support. Persons sponsoring an Amerasian alien described in section 204(f)(2) of the Act remain subject to the provisions of section 204(f)(4)(B) of the Act and 8 CFR 204.4(i), as appropriate.
[76 FR 53790, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 214

# PART 214—NONIMMIGRANT CLASSES

# Subpart A—Classes A through S
Sec.
214.1
Requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
214.2
Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
214.3
Certification and recertification of schools for enrollment of F and M nonimmigrants.
214.4
Denial of certification, denial of recertification, or withdrawal of SEVP certification.
214.5
Libyan and third country nationals acting on behalf of Libyan entities.
214.6
Citizens of Canada or Mexico seeking temporary entry under USMCA to engage in business activities at a professional level.
214.7
Habitual residence in the territories and possessions of the United States and consequences thereof.
214.8-214.10
[Reserved]
214.11
Former regulations for noncitizen victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons.
214.12
[Reserved]
214.13
SEVIS for certain F, J, and M nonimmigrants.
214.14
Alien victims of certain qualifying criminal activity.
214.15
Certain spouses and children of lawful permanent residents.
Subpart B [Reserved]
Subpart C—Noncitizen Victims of Severe Forms of Trafficking in Persons
214.200
Scope of this subpart.
214.201
Definitions.
214.202
Eligibility for T-1 nonimmigrant status.
214.203
Period of admission.
214.204
Application.
214.205
Bona fide determination.
214.206
Victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons.
214.207
Physical presence.
214.208
Compliance with any reasonable request for assistance in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of an act of trafficking.
214.209
Extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm.
214.210
Annual numerical limit.
214.211
Application for eligible family members.
214.212
Extension of T nonimmigrant status.
214.213
Revocation of approved T nonimmigrant status.
214.214
Removal proceedings.
214.215
USCIS employee referral.
214.216
Restrictions on use and disclosure of information relating to applicants for T nonimmigrant classification.

# Authority:
6 U.S.C. 202, 236; 8 U.S.C. 1101, 1102, 1103, 1182, 1184, 1186a, 1187, 1221, 1281, 1282, 1301-1305, 1357, and 1372; sec. 643, Pub. L. 104-208, 110 Stat. 3009-708; Pub. L. 106-386, 114 Stat. 1477-1480; section 141 of the Compacts of Free Association with the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and with the Government of Palau, 48 U.S.C. 1901 note and 1931 note, respectively; 48 U.S.C. 1806; 8 CFR part 2; Pub. L. 115-218, 132 Stat. 1547 (48 U.S.C. 1806).

# Subpart A—Classes A through S
§ 214.1
Requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
(a)
General
—(1)
Nonimmigrant classes.
For the purpose of administering the nonimmigrant provisions of the Act, the following administrative subclassifications of nonimmigrant classifications as defined in section 101(a)(15) of the Act are established:
(i) Section 101(a)(15)(B) is divided into (B)(i) for visitors for business and (B)(ii) for visitors for pleasure;
(ii) Section 101(a)(15)(C) is divided into (C)(i) for aliens who are not diplomats and are in transit through the United States; (C)(ii) for aliens in transit to and from the United Nations Headquarters District; and (C)(iii) for alien diplomats in transit through the United States;
(iii) Section 101(a)(15)(H) is divided to create an (H)(iv) subclassification for the spouse and children of a nonimmigrant classified under section 101(a)(15) (H) (i), (ii), or (iii);
(iv) Section 101(a)(15)(J) is divided into (J)(i) for principal aliens and (J)(ii) for such alien's spouse and children;
(v) Section 101(a)(15)(K) is divided into (K)(i) for the fianceé(e), (K)(ii) for the spouse, and (K)(iii) for the children of either;
(vi) Section 101(a)(15)(L) is divided into (L)(i) for principal aliens and (L)(ii) for such alien's spouse and children;
(vii) Section 101(a)(15)(Q)(ii) is divided to create a (Q)(iii) for subclassification for the spouse and children of a nonimmigrant classified under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(ii) of the Act;
(viii) Section 101(a)(15)(T)(ii) is divided into (T)(ii), (T)(iii), (T)(iv), and (T)(v) for the spouse, child, parent, and unmarried sibling under 18 years of age, respectively, of a principal nonimmigrant classified under section 101(a)(15)(T)(i); and T(vi) for the adult or minor child of a derivative nonimmigrant classified under section 101(a)(15)(T)(ii); and
(ix) Section 101(a)(15)(U)(ii) is divided into (U)(ii), (U)(iii), (U)(iv), and (U)(v) for the spouse, child, parent, and siblings, respectively, of a nonimmigrant classified under section 101(a)(15)(U)(i); and
(2)
Classification designations.
For the purpose of this chapter the following nonimmigrant designations are established. The designation in the second column may be used to refer to the appropriate nonimmigrant classification.
Section
Designation
101(a)(15)(A)(i)
A-1.
101(a)(15)(A)(ii)
A-2.
101(a)(15)(A)(iii)
A-3.
101(a)(15)(B)(i)
B-1.
101(a)(15)(B)(ii)
B-2.
101(a)(15)(C)(i)
C-1.
101(a)(15)(C)(ii)
C-2.
101(a)(15)(C)(iii)
C-3.
101(a)(15)(D)(i)
D-1.
101(a)(15)(D)(ii)
D-2.
101(a)(15)(E)(i)
E-1.
101(a)(15)(E)(ii)
E-2.
101(a)(15)(F)(i)
F-1.
101(a)(15)(F)(ii)
F-2.
101(a)(15)(G)(i)
G-1.
101(a)(15)(G)(ii)
G-2.
101(a)(15)(G)(iii)
G-3.
101(a)(15)(G)(iv)
G-4.
101(a)(15)(g)(v)
G-5.
101(a)(15)(H)(i)(B)
H-1B.
101(a)(15)(H)(i)(C)
H-1C.
101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(A)
H-2A.
101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(B)
H-2B.
101(a)(15)(H)(iii)
H-3.
101(a)(15)(H)(iv)
H-4.
101(a)(15)(I)
I.
101(a)(15)(J)(i)
J-1.
101(a)(15)(J)(ii)
J-2.
101(a)(15)(K)(i)
K-1.
101(a)(15)(K)(ii)
K-3.
101(a)(15)(K)(iii)
K-2; K-4.
101(a)(15)(L)(i)
L-1.
101(a)(15)(L)(ii)
L-2.
101(a)(15)(M)(i)
M-1.
101(a)(15)(M)(ii)
M-2.
101(a)(15)(N)(i)
N-8.
101(a)(15)(N)(ii)
N-9.
101(a)(15)(O)(i)
O-1.
101(a)(15)(O)(ii)
O-2.
101(a)(15)(O)(iii)
O-3.
101(a)(15)(P)(i)
P-1.
101(a)(15)(P)(ii)
P-2.
101(a)(15)(P)(iii)
P-3.
101(a)(15)(P)(iv)
P-4.
101(a)(15)(Q)(i)
Q-1.
101(a)(15)(Q)(ii)
Q-2.
101(a)(15)(Q)(iii)
Q-3.
101(a)(15)(R)(i)
R-1.
101(a)(15)(R)(ii)
R-2.
101(a)(15)(S)(i)
S-5.
101(a)(15)(S)(ii)
S-6.
101(a)(15)(S) qualified family members
S-7.
101(a)(15)(T)(i)
T-1
101(a)(15)(T)(ii)
T-2
101(a)(15)(T)(iii)
T-3
101(a)(15)(T)(iv)
T-4
101(a)(15)(T)(v)
T-5
101(a)(15)(T)(vi)
T-6
101(a)(15)(U)(i)
U-1
101(a)(15)(U)(ii)
U-2, U-3, U-4, U-5
101(a)(15)(V)
V-1, V-2, or V-3
USMCA, Principal
TN.
USMCA, Dependent
TD.
Visa Waiver, Business
WB.
Visa Waiver, Tourist
WT.

# Note 1:
The classification designation K-2 is for the child of a K-1. The classification designation K-4 is for the child of a K-3.

# Note 2:
The classification designation V-1 is for the spouse of a lawful permanent resident; the classification designation V-2 is for the principal beneficiary of an I-130 who is the child of an LPR; the classification V-3 is for the derivative child of a V-1 or V-2 alien.
(3)
General requirements.
(i) Every nonimmigrant alien who applies for admission to, or an extension of stay in, the United States, must establish that he or she is admissible to the United States, or that any ground of inadmissibility has been waived under section 212(d)(3) of the Act. Upon application for admission, the alien must present a valid passport and valid visa unless either or both documents have been waived. A nonimmigrant alien's admission to the United States is conditioned on compliance with any inspection requirement in § 235.1(d) or of this chapter, as well as compliance with part 215, subpart B, of this chapter, if applicable. The passport of an alien applying for admission must be valid for a minimum of six months from the expiration date of the contemplated period of stay, unless otherwise provided in this chapter, and the alien must agree to abide by the terms and conditions of his or her admission. An alien applying for extension of stay must present a passport only if requested to do so by the Department of Homeland Security. The passport of an alien applying for extension of stay must be valid at the time of application for extension, unless otherwise provided in this chapter, and the alien must agree to maintain the validity of his or her passport and to abide by all the terms and conditions of his extension.
(ii) At the time of admission or extension of stay, every nonimmigrant alien must also agree to depart the United States at the expiration of his or her authorized period of admission or extension of stay, or upon abandonment of his or her authorized nonimmigrant status, and to comply with the departure procedures at section 215.8 of this chapter if such procedures apply to the particular alien. The nonimmigrant alien's failure to comply with those departure requirements, including any requirement that the alien provide biometric identifiers, may constitute a failure of the alien to maintain the terms of his or her nonimmigrant status.
(iii) At the time a nonimmigrant alien applies for admission or extension of stay, he or she must post a bond on Form I-352 in the sum of not less than $500, to ensure the maintenance of his or her nonimmigrant status and departure from the United States, if required to do so by the Commissioner of CBP, the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, an immigration judge, or the Board of Immigration Appeals.
(b)
Readmission of nonimmigrants under section 101(a)(15) (F), (J), (M), or (Q)(ii) to complete unexpired periods of previous admission or extension of stay
—(1)
Section 101(a)(15)(F).
The inspecting immigration officer shall readmit for duration of status as defined in § 214.2(f)(5)(i), any nonimmigrant alien whose nonimmigrant visa is considered automatically revalidated pursuant to 22 CFR 41.112(d) and who is applying for readmission under section 101(a)(15)(F) of the Act, if the alien:
(i) Is admissible;
(ii) Is applying for readmission after an absence from the United States not exceeding thirty days solely in contiguous territory or adjacent islands;
(iii) Is in possession of a valid passport unless exempt from the requirement for presentation of a passport; and
(iv) Presents, or is the accompanying spouse or child of an alien who presents, an Arrival-Departure Record, Form I-94 (see § 1.4 of this chapter), issued to the alien in connection with the previous admission or stay, and either:
(A) A properly endorsed Form I-20 or successor form if there has been no substantive change in the information on the student's most recent Form I-20 or successor form since the form was initially issued; or
(B) A new Form I-20 or successor form if there has been any substantive change in the information on the student's most recent Form I-20 or successor form since the form was initially issued.
(2)
Section 101(a)(15)(J).
The inspecting immigration officer shall readmit for the unexpired period of stay authorized prior to the alien's departure, any nonimmigrant alien whose nonimmigrant visa is considered automatically revalidated pursuant to 22 CFR 41.112(d) and who is applying for readmission under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act, if the alien:
(i) Is admissible;
(ii) Is applying for readmission after an absence from the United States not exceeding thirty days solely in contiguous territory or adjacent islands;
(iii) Is in possession of a valid passport unless exempt from the requirement for the presentation of a passport; and
(iv) Presents, or is the accompanying spouse or child of an alien who presents, Form I-94 issued to the alien in connection with the previous admission or stay or the last Form DS-2019 issued to the alien. Form I-94 or Form DS-2019 must show the unexpired period of the alien's stay properly endorsed.
(3)
Section 101(a)(15)(M).
The inspecting immigration officer shall readmit for the unexpired period of stay authorized prior to the alien's departure, any nonimmigrant alien whose nonimmigrant visa is considered automatically revalidated pursuant to 22 CFR 41.112(d) and who is applying for readmission under section 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act, if the alien:
(i) Is admissible;
(ii) Is applying for readmission after an absence not exceeding thirty days solely in contiguous territory;
(iii) Is in possession of a valid passport unless exempt from the requirement for presentation of a passport; and
(iv) Presents, or is the accompanying spouse or child of an alien who presents, Form I-94 issued to the alien in connection with the previous admission or stay, and the alien's properly endorsed Form I-20 or successor form.
(4)
Section 101(a)(15)(Q)(ii).
The inspecting immigration officer shall readmit for the unexpired period of stay authorized prior to the alien's departure, if the alien:
(i) Is admissible;
(ii) Is applying for readmission after an absence from the United States not exceeding 30 days solely in contiguous territory or adjacent islands;
(iii) Is in possession of a valid passport;
(iv) Presents, or is the accompanying spouse or child of an alien who presents, an Arrival-Departure Record, Form I-94, issued to the alien in connection with the previous admission or stay. The principal alien must also present a Certification Letter issued by the Department of State's Program Administrator.
(c)
Extensions of stay
—(1)
Extension of stay for certain employment-based nonimmigrant workers.
A petitioner seeking the services of an E-1, E-2, E-3, H-1B, H-1B1, H-2A, H-2B, H-3, L-1, O-1, O-2, P-1, P-2, P-3, Q-1, R-1, or TN nonimmigrant beyond the period previously granted, must apply for an extension of stay on the form designated by USCIS, with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2, with the initial evidence specified in § 214.2, and in accordance with the form instructions. Dependents holding derivative status may be included in the petition if it is for only one worker and the form version specifically provides for their inclusion. In all other cases dependents of the worker should file on Form I-539.
(2)
Filing on Form I-539.
Any other nonimmigrant alien, except an alien in F or J status who has been granted duration of status, who seeks to extend his or her stay beyond the currently authorized period of admission, must apply for an extension of stay on Form I-539 with the fee required in 8 CFR 106.2 together with any initial evidence specified in the applicable provisions of § 214.2, and on the application form. More than one person may be included in an application where the co-applicants are all members of a single family group and either all hold the same nonimmigrant status or one holds a nonimmigrant status and the other co-applicants are his or her spouse and/or children who hold derivative nonimmigrant status based on his or her status. Extensions granted to members of a family group must be for the same period of time. The shortest period granted to any member of the family shall be granted to all members of the family. In order to be eligible for an extension of stay, nonimmigrant aliens in K-3/K-4 status must do so in accordance with § 214.2(k)(10).
(3)
Ineligible for extension of stay.
A nonimmigrant in any of the following classes is ineligible for an extension of stay:
(i) B-1 or B-2 where admission was pursuant to the Visa Waiver Pilot Program;
(ii) C-1, C-2, C-3;
(iii) D-1, D-2;
(iv) K-1, K-2;
(v) Any nonimmigrant admitted for duration of status, other than as provided in § 214.2(f)(7);
(vi) Any nonimmigrant who is classified pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act beyond a total of 3 years; or
(vii) Any nonimmigrant who is classified according to section 101(a)(15)(Q)(ii) of the Act beyond a total of 3 years.
(viii) Any nonimmigrant admitted pursuant to the Guam-CNMI Visa Waiver Program, or its sub-program, the CNMI Economic Vitality
Security Travel Authorization Program (EVS-TAP), as provided in section 212(l) of the Act.
(4)
Timely filing and maintenance of status.
An extension of stay may not be approved for an applicant who failed to maintain the previously accorded status or where such status expired before the application or petition was filed, except that failure to file before the period of previously authorized status expired may be excused in the discretion of the Service and without separate application, with any extension granted from the date the previously authorized stay expired, where it is demonstrated at the time of filing that:
(i) The delay was due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner, and the Service finds the delay commensurate with the circumstances;
(ii) The alien has not otherwise violated his or her nonimmigrant status;
(iii) The alien remains a bona fide nonimmigrant; and
(iv) The alien is not the subject of deportation proceedings under section 242 of the Act (prior to April 1, 1997) or removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act.
(5)
Decision on application for extension or change of status.
Where an applicant or petitioner demonstrates eligibility for a requested extension, it may be granted at the discretion of USCIS. The denial of an application for extension of stay may not be appealed.
(d)
Termination of status.
Within the period of initial admission or extension of stay, the nonimmigrant status of an alien shall be terminated by the revocation of a waiver authorized on his or her behalf under section 212(d) (3) or (4) of the Act; by the introduction of a private bill to confer permanent resident status on such alien; or, pursuant to notification in the
Federal Register,
on the basis of national security, diplomatic, or public safety reasons.
(e)
Employment.
A nonimmigrant in the United States in a class defined in section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Act as a temporary visitor for pleasure, or section 101(a)(15)(C) of the Act as an alien in transit through this country, may not engage in any employment. Any other nonimmigrant in the United States may not engage in any employment unless he has been accorded a nonimmigrant classification which authorizes employment or he has been granted permission to engage in employment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. A nonimmigrant who is permitted to engage in employment may engage only in such employment as has been authorized. Any unauthorized employment by a nonimmigrant constitutes a failure to maintain status within the meaning of section 241(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(f)
False information.
A condition of a nonimmigrant's admission and continued stay in the United States is the full and truthful disclosure of all information requested by DHS. A nonimmigrant's willful failure to provide full and truthful information requested by DHS (regardless of whether or not the information requested was material) constitutes a failure to maintain nonimmigrant status under section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(g)
Criminal activity.
A condition of a nonimmigrant's admission and continued stay in the United States is obedience to all laws of United States jurisdictions which prohibit the commission of crimes of violence and for which a sentence of more than one year imprisonment may be imposed. A nonimmigrant's conviction in a jurisdiction in the United States for a crime of violence for which a sentence of more than one year imprisonment may be imposed (regardless of whether such sentence is in fact imposed) constitutes a failure to maintain status under section 241(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(h)
Education privacy and F, J, and M nonimmigrants.
As authorized by section 641(c)(2) of Division C of Pub. L. 104-208, 8 U.S.C. 1372, and § 2.1 of this chapter, DHS has determined that, with respect to F and M nonimmigrant students and J nonimmigrant exchange visitors, waiving the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. 1232g, is necessary for the proper implementation of 8 U.S.C. 1372. An educational agency or institution may not refuse to report information concerning an F or M nonimmigrant student or a J nonimmigrant exchange visitor that the educational agency or institution is required to report under 8 U.S.C. 1372 and § 214.3(g) (or any corresponding Department of State regulation concerning J nonimmigrants) on the basis of FERPA and any regulation implementing FERPA. The waiver of FERPA under this paragraph authorizes and requires an educational agency or institution to report information concerning an F, J or M nonimmigrant that would ordinarily be protected by FERPA, but only to the extent that 8 U.S.C. 1372 and § 214.3(g) (or any corresponding Department of State regulation concerning J nonimmigrants) requires the educational agency or institution to report information.
(i)
Employment in a health care occupation.
(1) Except as provided in 8 CFR 212.15(n), any alien described in 8 CFR 212.15(a) who is coming to the United States to perform labor in a health care occupation described in 8 CFR 212.15(c) must obtain a certificate from a credentialing organization described in 8 CFR 212.15(e). The certificate or certified statement must be presented to the Department of Homeland Security in accordance with 8 CFR 212.15(d). In the alternative, an eligible alien seeking admission as a nurse may obtain a certified statement as provided in 8 CFR 212.15(h).
(2) A TN nonimmigrant may establish that he or she is eligible for a waiver described at 8 CFR 212.15(n) by providing evidence that his or her initial admission as a TN (or TC) nonimmigrant health care worker occurred before September 23, 2003, and he or she was licensed and employed in the United States as a health care worker before September 23, 2003. Evidence may include, but is not limited to, copies of TN or TC approval notices, copies of Form I-94 Arrival/Departure Records, employment verification letters and/or pay-stubs or other employment records, and state health care worker licenses.
(j)
Extension of stay or change of status for health care worker.
In the case of any alien admitted temporarily as a nonimmigrant under section 212(d)(3) of the Act and 8 CFR 212.15(n) for the primary purpose of the providing labor in a health care occupation described in 8 CFR 212.15(c), the petitioning employer may file an application or petition to extend the approval period for the alien's classification for the nonimmigrant status. If the alien is in the United States and is eligible for an extension of stay or change of status, the application or petition also serves as an application to extend the period of the alien's authorized stay or to change the alien's status. Although the application or petition may be approved, as it relates to the employer's request to classify the alien, the application for an extension of stay or change of status shall be denied if:
(1) The petitioner or applicant fails to submit the certification required by 8 CFR 212.15(a) with the petition or application to extend the alien's stay or change the alien's status; or
(2) The petition or application to extend the alien's stay or change the alien's status does include the certification required by 8 CFR 212.15(a), but the alien obtained the certification more than 1 year after the date of the alien's admission under section 212(d)(3) of the Act and 8 CFR 212.15(n). While DHS may admit, extend the period of authorized stay, or change the status of a nonimmigrant health care worker for a period of 1 year if the alien does not have certification on or before July 26, 2004 (or on or before July 26, 2005, in the case of a citizen of Canada or Mexico, who, before September 23, 2003, was employed as a TN or TC nonimmigrant health care worker and held a valid license from a U.S. jurisdiction), the alien will not be eligible for a subsequent admission, change of status, or extension of stay as a health care worker if the alien has
not obtained the requisite certification 1 year after the initial date of admission, change of status, or extension of stay as a health care worker.
(k)
Denial of petitions under section 214(c) of the Act based on a finding by the Department of Labor.
Upon debarment by the Department of Labor pursuant to 20 CFR part 655, USCIS may deny any petition filed by that petitioner for nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(H) (except for status under sections 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b1)), (L), (O), and (P)(i) of the Act) for a period of at least 1 year but not more than 5 years. The length of the period shall be based on the severity of the violation or violations. The decision to deny petitions, the time period for the bar to petitions, and the reasons for the time period will be explained in a written notice to the petitioner.
(l)
Period of stay.
(1) An alien admissible in E-1, E-2, E-3, H-1B, L-1, or TN classification and his or her dependents may be admitted to the United States or otherwise provided such status for the validity period of the petition, or for a validity period otherwise authorized for the E-1, E-2, E-3, and TN classifications, plus an additional period of up to 10 days before the validity period begins and 10 days after the validity period ends. Unless authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12, the alien may not work except during the validity period.
(2) An alien admitted or otherwise provided status in E-1, E-2, E-3, H-1B, H-1B1, L-1, O-1 or TN classification and his or her dependents shall not be considered to have failed to maintain nonimmigrant status solely on the basis of a cessation of the employment on which the alien's classification was based, for up to 60 consecutive days or until the end of the authorized validity period, whichever is shorter, once during each authorized validity period. DHS may eliminate or shorten this 60-day period as a matter of discretion. Unless otherwise authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12, the alien may not work during such a period.
(3) An alien in any authorized period described in paragraph (l) of this section may apply for and be granted an extension of stay under paragraph (c)(4) of this section or change of status under 8 CFR 248.1, if otherwise eligible.
[26 FR 12067, Dec. 16, 1961]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 214.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 214.1, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 103195, Dec. 18, 2024, § 214.1 was amended by:
a. Revising paragraphs (c)(1) and (4);
b. Redesignating paragraph (c)(5) as paragraph (c)(7);
c. Adding a new paragraph (c)(5) and paragraph (c)(6); and
d. Revising newly redesignated paragraph (c)(7).
The amendments are effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 214.1
Requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
(c) * * *
(1)
Extension or amendment of stay for certain employment-based nonimmigrant workers.
An applicant or petitioner seeking the services of an E-1, E-2, E-3, H-1B, H-1B1, H-2A, H-2B, H-3, L-1, O-1, O-2, P-1, P-2, P-3, P-1S, P-2S, P-3S, Q-1, R-1, or TN nonimmigrant beyond the period previously granted, or seeking to amend the terms and conditions of the nonimmigrant's stay without a request for additional time, must file for an extension of stay or amendment of stay, on Form I-129, with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2, with the initial evidence specified in § 214.2, and in accordance with the form instructions. Dependents holding derivative status may be included in the petition if it is for only one worker and the form version specifically provides for their inclusion. In all other cases, dependents of the worker should file extensions of stay using Form I-539.
(4)
Timely filing and maintenance of status.
(i) An extension or amendment of stay may not be approved for an applicant or beneficiary who failed to maintain the previously accorded status or where such status expired before the application or petition was filed, except that USCIS may excuse the late filing in its discretion where it is demonstrated at the time of filing that:
(A) The delay was due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner, and USCIS finds the delay commensurate with the circumstances;
(B) The applicant or beneficiary has not otherwise violated their nonimmigrant status;
(C) The applicant or beneficiary remains a bona fide nonimmigrant; and
(D) The applicant or beneficiary is not the subject of deportation proceedings under section 242 of the Act (prior to April 1, 1997) or removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act.
(ii) If USCIS excuses the late filing of an extension of stay or amendment of stay request, it will do so without requiring the filing of a separate application or petition and will grant the extension of stay from the date the previously authorized stay expired, or the amendment of stay from the date the petition was filed.
(5)
Deference to prior USCIS determinations of eligibility.
When adjudicating a request filed on Form I-129 involving the same parties and the same underlying facts, USCIS gives deference to its prior determination of the petitioner's, applicant's, or beneficiary's eligibility. However, USCIS need not give deference to a prior approval if: there was a material error involved with a prior approval; there has been a material change in circumstances or eligibility requirements; or there is new, material information that adversely impacts the petitioner's, applicant's, or beneficiary's eligibility.
(6)
Evidence of maintenance of status.
When requesting an extension or amendment of stay on Form I-129, an applicant or petitioner must submit supporting evidence to establish that the applicant or beneficiary maintained the previously accorded nonimmigrant status before the extension or amendment request was filed. Evidence of such maintenance of status may include, but is not limited to: copies of paystubs, W-2 forms, quarterly wage reports, tax returns, contracts, and work orders.
(7)
Decision on extension or amendment of stay request.
Where an applicant or petitioner demonstrates eligibility for a requested extension or amendment of stay, USCIS may grant the extension or amendment in its discretion. The denial of an extension or amendment of stay request may not be appealed.
§ 214.2
Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
Table 1 to § 214.2—Section Contents
(a) Foreign government officials
(b) Visitors
(c) Transits
(d) Crewmen
(e) Treaty traders and investors
(f) Students in colleges, universities, seminaries, conservatories, academic high schools, elementary schools, other academic institutions, and in language training programs
(g) Representatives to international organizations
(h) Temporary employees
(i) Representatives of information media
(j) Exchange aliens
(k) Spouses, Fiancées, and Fiancés of United States Citizens
(l) Intracompany transferees
(m) Students in established vocational or other recognized nonacademic institutions, other than in language training programs
(n) Certain parents and children of section 101(a)(27)(I) special immigrants
(o) Aliens of extraordinary ability or achievement
(p) Artists, athletes, and entertainers
(q) Cultural visitors
(r) Religious workers
(s) NATO nonimmigrant aliens
(t) Alien witnesses and informants
(u) [Reserved]
(v) Certain spouses and children of LPRs
(w) CNMI-Only Transitional Worker (CW-1)
The general requirements in § 214.1 are modified for the following nonimmigrant classes:
(a)
Foreign government officials
—(1)
General.
The determination by a consular officer prior to admission and the recognition by the Secretary of State subsequent to admission is evidence of the proper classification of a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(A) of the Act. An alien who has a nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(A)(i) or (ii) of the Act is to be admitted for the duration of the period for which the alien continues to be recognized by the Secretary of State as being entitled to that status. An alien defined in section (101)(a)(15)(A)(iii) of the Act is to be admitted for an initial period of not more than three years, and may be granted extensions of temporary stay in increments of not more than two years. In addition, the application for extension of temporary stay must be accompanied by a statement
signed by the employing official stating that he/she intends to continue to employ the applicant and describing the type of work the applicant will perform.
(2)
Definition of A-1 or A-2 dependent.
For purposes of employment in the United States, the term
dependent
of an A-1 or A-2 principal alien, as used in § 214.2(a), means any of the following immediate members of the family habitually residing in the same household as the principal alien who is an officer or employee assigned to a diplomatic or consular office in the United States:
(i) Spouse;
(ii) Unmarried children under the age of 21;
(iii) Unmarried sons or daughters under the age of 23 who are in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions;
(iv) Unmarried sons or daughters under the age of 25 who are in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions if a formal bilateral employment agreement permitting their employment in the United States was signed prior to November 21, 1988, and such bilateral employment agreement does not specify 23 as the maximum age for employment of such sons and daughters. The Office of Protocol of the Department of State shall maintain a listing of foreign states with which the United States has such bilateral employment agreements;
(v) Unmarried sons or daughters who are physically or mentally disabled to the extent that they cannot adequately care for themselves or cannot establish, maintain or re-establish their own households. The Department of State or the Service may require certification(s) as it deems sufficient to document such mental or physical disability; or
(vi) An immediate family member of an A-1 or A-2 principal alien described in 22 CFR 41.21(a)(3)(i) to (iv) with A-1 or A-2 nonimmigrant status, who falls within a category of aliens recognized by the Department of State as qualifying dependents.
(3)
Applicability of a formal bilateral agreement or an informal de facto arrangement for A-1 or A-2 dependents.
The applicability of a formal bilateral agreement shall be based on the foreign state which employs the principal alien and not on the nationality of the principal alien or dependent. The applicability of an informal de facto arrangement shall be based on the foreign state which employs the principal alien, but under a de facto arrangement the principal alien also must be a national of the foreign state which employs him/her in the United States.
(4)
Income tax, Social Security liability; non-applicability of certain immunities.
Dependents who are granted employment authorization under this section are responsible for payment of all federal, state and local income, employment and related taxes and Social Security contributions on any remuneration received. In addition, immunity from civil or administrative jurisdiction in accordance with Article 37 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations or other international agreements does not apply to these dependents with respect to matters arising out of their employment.
(5)
Dependent employment pursuant to formal bilateral employment agreements and informal de facto reciprocal arrangements.
(i) The Office of Protocol shall maintain a listing of foreign states which have entered into formal bilateral employment agreements. Dependents of an A-1 or A-2 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may accept or continue in unrestricted employment based on such formal bilateral agreements upon favorable recommendation by the Department of State and issuance of employment authorization documentation by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. The application procedures are set forth in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(ii) For purposes of this section, an informal de facto reciprocal arrangement exists when the Department of State determines that a foreign state allows appropriate employment on the local economy for dependents of certain United States officials assigned to duty in that foreign state. The Office of Protocol shall maintain a listing of countries with which such reciprocity exists. Dependents of an A-1 or A-2 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may be authorized
to accept or continue in employment based upon informal de facto arrangements upon favorable recommendation by the Department of State and issuance of employment authorization by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. Additionally, the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(6) of this section must be complied with, and the following conditions must be met:
(A) Both the principal alien and the dependent desiring employment are maintaining A-1 or A-2 status as appropriate;
(B) The principal's assignment in the United States is expected to last more than six months;
(C) Employment of a similar nature for dependents of United States Government officials assigned to official duty in the foreign state employing the principal alien is not prohibited by that foreign state's government;
(D) The proposed employment is not in an occupation listed in the Department of Labor Schedule B (20 CFR part 656), or otherwise determined by the Department of Labor to be one for which there is an oversupply of qualified U.S. workers in the area of proposed employment. This Schedule B restriction does not apply to a dependent son or daughter who is a full-time student if the employment is part-time, consisting of not more than 20 hours per week, and/or if it is temporary employment of not more than 12 weeks during school holiday periods; and
(E) The proposed employment is not contrary to the interest of the United States. Employment contrary to the interest of the United States includes, but is not limited to, the employment of A-1 or A-2 dependents: who have criminal records; who have violated United States immigration laws or regulations, or visa laws or regulations; who have worked illegally in the United States; and/or who cannot establish that they have paid taxes and social security on income from current or previous United States employment.
(6)
Application procedures.
The following procedures are applicable to dependent employment applications under bilateral agreements and de facto arrangements:
(i) The dependent must submit a completed Form I-566 to the Department of State through the office, mission, or organization which employs his/her principal alien. A dependent applying under paragraph (a)(2)(iii) or (iv) of this section must submit a certified statement from the post-secondary educational institution confirming that he/she is pursuing studies on a full-time basis. A dependent applying under paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section must submit medical certification regarding his/her condition. The certification should identify the dependent and the certifying physician and give the physician's phone number; identify the condition, describe the symptoms and provide a prognosis; and certify that the dependent is unable to maintain a home of his or her own. Additionally, a dependent applying under the terms of a de facto arrangement must attach a statement from the prospective employer which includes the dependent's name; a description of the position offered and the duties to be performed; the salary offered; and verification that the dependent possesses the qualifications for the position.
(ii) The Department of State reviews and verifies the information provided, makes its determination, and endorses the Form I-566.
(iii) If the Department of State's endorsement is favorable, the dependent may apply to USCIS for employment authorization. When applying to USCIS for employment authorization, the dependent must present his or her Form I-566 with a favorable endorsement from the Department of State and any additional documentation as may be required by the Secretary.
(7)
Period of time for which employment may be authorized.
If approved, an application to accept or continue employment under this section shall be granted in increments of not more than three years each.
(8)
No appeal.
There shall be no appeal from a denial of permission to accept or continue employment under this section.
(9)
Dependents or family members of principal aliens classified A-3.
A dependent or family member of a principal
alien classified A-3 may not be employed in the United States under this section.
(10)
Unauthorized employment.
An alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(A) of the Act who is not a principal alien and who engages in employment outside the scope of, or in a manner contrary to this section, may be considered in violation of section 241(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act. An alien who is classified under section 101(a)(15)(A) of the Act who is a principal alien and who engages in employment outside the scope of his/her official position may be considered in violation of section 241(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(b)
Visitors
—(1)
General.
Any B-1 visitor for business or B-2 visitor for pleasure may be admitted for not more than one year and may be granted extensions of temporary stay in increments of not more than six months each, except that alien members of a religious denomination coming temporarily and solely to do missionary work in behalf of a religious denomination may be granted extensions of not more than one year each, provided that such work does not involve the selling of articles or the solicitation or acceptance of donations. Those B-1 and B-2 visitors admitted pursuant to the waiver provided at § 212.1(e) of this chapter may be admitted to and stay on Guam for period not to exceed fifteen days and are not eligible for extensions of stay.
(2)
Minimum six month admissions.
Any B-2 visitor who is found otherwise admissible and is issued a Form I-94 (see § 1.4), will be admitted for a minimum period of six months, regardless of whether less time is requested, provided, that any required passport is valid as specified in section 212(a)(26) of the Act. Exceptions to the minimum six month admission may be made only in individual cases upon the specific approval of the district director for good cause.
(3)
Visa Waiver Pilot Program.
Special requirements for admission and maintenance of status for visitors admitted to the United States under the Visa Waiver Pilot Program are set forth in section 217 of the Act and part 217 of this chapter.
(4)
Admission of aliens pursuant to the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada (USMCA).
A citizen of Canada or Mexico seeking temporary entry for purposes set forth in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, who otherwise meets the requirements under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Act, including but not limited to requirements regarding the source of remuneration, shall be admitted upon presentation of proof of such citizenship in the case of Canadian applicants, and valid, unexpired entry documents such as a passport and visa, or a passport and BCC in the case of Mexican applicants, a description of the purpose for which the alien is seeking admission, and evidence demonstrating that he or she is engaged in one of the occupations or professions set forth in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(i)
Occupations and professions set forth in Section B of Appendix 1 of Chapter 16 of the USMCA
—(A)
Research and design.
Technical, scientific and statistical researchers conducting independent research or research for an enterprise located in the territory of another Party.
(B)
Growth, manufacture, and production.
(
1
) Harvester owner supervising a harvesting crew admitted under applicable law. (Applies only to harvesting of agricultural crops: Grain, fiber, fruit and vegetables.)
(
2
) Purchasing and production management personnel conducting commercial transactions for an enterprise located in the territory of another Party.
(C)
Marketing.
(
1
) Market researchers and analysts conducting independent research or analysis, or research or analysis for an enterprise located in the territory of another Party.
(
2
) Trade fair and promotional personnel attending a trade convention.
(D)
Sales.
(
1
) Sales representatives and agents taking orders or negotiating contracts for goods or services for an enterprise located in the territory of another Party but not delivering goods or supplying services.
(
2
) Buyers purchasing for an enterprise located in the territory of another Party.
(E)
Distribution.
(
1
) Transportation operators transporting goods or passengers to the United States from the territory of another Party or loading and transporting goods or passengers from the United States, with no unloading in the United States, to the territory of another Party. (These operators may make deliveries in the United States if all goods or passengers to be delivered were loaded in the territory of another Party. Furthermore, they may load from locations in the United States if all goods or passengers to be loaded will be delivered in the territory of another Party. Purely domestic service or solicitation, in competition with the United States operators, is not permitted.)
(
2
) Customs brokers performing brokerage duties associated with the export of goods from the United States to or through Canada.
(F)
After-sales services.
Installers, repair and maintenance personnel, and supervisors, possessing specialized knowledge essential to the seller's contractual obligation, performing services or training workers to perform services, pursuant to a warranty or other service contract incidental to the sale of commercial or industrial equipment or machinery, including computer software, purchased from an enterprise located outside the United States, during the life of the warranty or service agreement. (For the purposes of this provision, the commercial or industrial equipment or machinery, including computer software, must have been manufactured outside the United States.)
(G)
General service.
Professionals engaging in a business activity at a professional level in a profession set out in Appendix 2 to Annex 16-A of Chapter 16 of the USMCA, but receiving no salary or other remuneration from a United States source (other than an expense allowance or other reimbursement for expenses incidental to the temporary stay) and otherwise satisfying the requirements of Section A to Annex 16-A of the USMCA.
(H)
Commercial transactions.
(
1
) Management and supervisory personnel engaging in commercial transactions for an enterprise located in the territory of another Party.
(
2
) Financial services personnel (insurers, bankers or investment brokers) engaging in commercial transactions for an enterprise located in the territory of another Party.
(I)
Public relations and advertising.
Public relations and advertising personnel consulting with business associates, or attending or participating in conventions.
(J)
Tourism.
Tourism personnel (tour and travel agents, tour guides or tour operators) attending or participating in conventions or conducting a tour that has begun in the territory of another Party. (The tour may begin in the United States; but must terminate in foreign territory, and a significant portion of the tour must be conducted in foreign territory. In such a case, an operator may enter the United States with an empty conveyance and a tour guide may enter on his or her own and join the conveyance.)
(K)
Tour bus operation.
Tour bus operators entering the United States:
(
1
) With a group of passengers on a bus tour that has begun in, and will return to, the territory of another Party.
(
2
) To meet a group of passengers on a bus tour that will end, and the predominant portion of which will take place, in the territory of another Party.
(
3
) With a group of passengers on a bus tour to be unloaded in the United States and returning with no passengers or reloading with the group for transportation to the territory of another Party.
(L)
Translation.
Translators or interpreters performing services as employees of an enterprise located in the territory of another Party.
(ii)
Occupations and professions not listed in Section B of Appendix 1 of Chapter 16 of the USMCA.
Nothing in paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall preclude a business person engaged in an occupation or profession other than those listed in Section B of Appendix 1 of Chapter 16 of the USMCA from temporary entry under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Act, if such person otherwise meets the requirements for admission as prescribed by the Attorney General.
(5)
Construction workers not admissible.
Aliens seeking to enter the country to perform building or construction work,
whether on-site or in-plant, are not eligible for classification or admission as B-1 nonimmigrants under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Act. However, alien nonimmigrants otherwise qualified as B-1 nonimmigrants may be issued visas and may enter for the purpose of supervision or training of others engaged in building or construction work, but not for the purpose of actually performing any such building or construction work themselves.
(6) [Reserved]
(7)
Enrollment in a course of study prohibited.
An alien who is admitted as, or changes status to, a B-1 or B-2 nonimmigrant on or after April 12, 2002, or who files a request to extend the period of authorized stay in B-1 or B-2 nonimmigrant status on or after such date, violates the conditions of his or her B-1 or B-2 status if the alien enrolls in a course of study. Such an alien who desires to enroll in a course of study must either obtain an F-1 or M-1 nonimmigrant visa from a consular officer abroad and seek readmission to the United States, or apply for and obtain a change of status under section 248 of the Act and 8 CFR part 248. The alien may not enroll in the course of study until the Service has admitted the alien as an F-1 or M-1 nonimmigrant or has approved the alien's application under part 248 of this chapter and changed the alien's status to that of an F-1 or M-1 nonimmigrant.
(c)
Transits.
(1) [Reserved]
(2)
United Nations Headquarters District.
An alien of the class defined in section 101(a)(15)(C) of the Act, whose visa is limited to transit to and from the United Nations Headquarters District, if otherwise admissible, shall be admitted on the additional conditions that he proceed directly to the immediate vicinity of the United Nations Headquarters District, and remain there continuously, departing therefrom only if required in connection with his departure from the United States, and that he have a document establishing his ability to enter some country other than the United States following his sojourn in the United Nations Headquarters District. The immediate vicinity of the United Nations Headquarters District is that area lying within a twenty-five mile radius of Columbus Circle, New York, NY.
(3)
Others.
The period of admission of an alien admitted under section 101(a)(15)(C) of the Act shall not exceed 29 days.
(d)
Crewmen.
(1) The provisions of parts 251, 252, 253, and 258 of this chapter shall govern the landing of crewmen as nonimmigrants of the class defined in section 101(a)(15)(D) of the Act. An alien in this status may be employed only in a crewman capacity on the vessel or aircraft of arrival, or on a vessel or aircraft of the same transportation company, and may not be employed in connection with domestic flights or movements of a vessel or aircraft. However, nonimmigrant crewmen may perform crewmember duties through stopovers on an international flight for any United States carrier where such flight uses a single aircraft and has an origination or destination point outside the United States.
(2)
Denial of crewman status in the case of certain labor disputes (D nonimmigrants).
(i) An alien shall be denied D crewman status as described in section 101(a)(15)(D) of the Act if:
(A) The alien intends to land for the purpose of performing service on a vessel of the United States (as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(46)) or an aircraft of an air carrier (as defined in section 101(3) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958); and
(B) A labor dispute consisting of a strike or lockout exists in the bargaining unit of the employer in which the alien intends to perform such service; and
(C) The alien is not already an employee of the company (as described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section).
(ii)
Refusal to land.
Any alien (except a qualified current employee as described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section) who the examining immigration officer determines has arrived in the United States for the purpose of performing service on board a vessel or an aircraft of the United States when a strike or lockout is under way in the bargaining unit of the employer, shall be refused a conditional landing permit under section 252 of the Act.
(iii)
Ineligibility for parole.
An alien described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this
section may not be paroled into the United States under section 212(d)(5) of the Act for the purpose of performing crewmember duties unless the Attorney General determines that the parole of such alien is necessary to protect the national security of the United States. This paragraph does not prohibit the granting of parole for other purposes, such as medical emergencies.
(iv)
Qualified current employees.
(A) Paragraphs (d)(2)(i), (d)(2)(ii), and (d)(2)(iii) of this section do not apply to an alien who is already an employee of the owner or operator of the vessel or air carrier and who at the time of inspection presents true copies of employer work records which satisfy the examining immigration officer that the alien:
(
1
) Has been an employee of such employer for a period of not less than one year preceding the date that a strike or lawful lockout commenced;
(
2
) Has served as a qualified crewman for such employer at least once in three different months during the 12-month period preceding the date that the strike or lockout commenced; and
(
3
) Shall continue to provide the same crewman services that he or she previously provided to the employer.
(B) An alien crewman who qualifies as a current employee under this paragraph remains subject to the restrictions on his or her employment in the United States contained in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(v)
Strike or lockout determination.
These provisions will take effect if the Attorney General, through the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service or his or her designee, after consultation with the National Mediation Board, determines that a strike, lockout, or labor dispute involving a work stoppage is in progress in the bargaining unit of the employer for whom the alien intends to perform such service.
(e)
Treaty traders and investors
—(1)
Treaty trader.
An alien, if otherwise admissible, may be classified as a nonimmigrant treaty trader (E-1) under the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(E)(i) of the Act if the alien:
(i) Will be in the United States solely to carry on trade of a substantial nature, which is international in scope, either on the alien's behalf or as an employee of a foreign person or organization engaged in trade principally between the United States and the treaty country of which the alien is a national, taking into consideration any conditions in the country of which the alien is a national which may affect the alien's ability to carry on such substantial trade; and
(ii) Intends to depart the United States upon the expiration or termination of treaty trader (E-1) status.
(2)
Treaty investor.
An alien, if otherwise admissible, may be classified as a nonimmigrant treaty investor (E-2) under the provision of section 101(a)(15)(E)(ii) of the Act if the alien:
(i) Has invested or is actively in the process of investing a substantial amount of capital in a bona fide enterprise in the United States, as distinct from a relatively small amount of capital in a marginal enterprise solely for the purpose of earning a living;
(ii) Is seeking entry solely to develop and direct the enterprise; and
(iii) Intends to depart the United States upon the expiration or termination of treaty investor (E-2) status.
(3)
Employee of treaty trader or treaty investor.
An alien employee of a treaty trader, if otherwise admissible, may be classified as E-1, and an alien employee of a treaty investor, if otherwise admissible, may be classified as E-2 if the employee is in or is coming to the United States to engage in duties of an executive or supervisory character, or, if employed in a lesser capacity, the employee has special qualifications that make the alien's services essential to the efficient operation of the enterprise. The employee must have the same nationality as the principal alien employer. In addition, the employee must intend to depart the United States upon the expiration or termination of E-1 or E-2 status. The principal alien employer must be:
(i) A person in the United States having the nationality of the treaty country and maintaining nonimmigrant treaty trader or treaty investor status or, if not in the United States, would be classifiable as a treaty trader or treaty investor; or
(ii) An enterprise or organization at least 50 percent owned by persons in
the United States having the nationality of the treaty country and maintaining nonimmigrant treaty trader or treaty investor status or who, if not in the United States, would be classifiable as treaty traders or treaty investors.
(4)
Spouse and children of treaty trader or treaty investor.
The spouse and child of a treaty trader or treaty investor accompanying or following to join the principal alien, if otherwise admissible, may receive the same classification as the principal alien. The nationality of a spouse or child of a treaty trader or treaty investor is not material to the classification of the spouse or child under the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(E) of the Act.
(5)
Nonimmigrant intent.
An alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(E) of the Act shall maintain an intention to depart the United States upon the expiration or termination of E-1 or E-2 status. However, an application for initial admission, change of status, or extension of stay in E classification may not be denied solely on the basis of an approved request for permanent labor certification or a filed or approved immigrant visa preference petition.
(6)
Treaty country.
A treaty country is, for purposes of this section, a foreign state with which a qualifying Treaty of Friendship, Commerce, or Navigation or its equivalent exists with the United States. A treaty country includes a foreign state that is accorded treaty visa privileges under section 101(a)(15)(E) of the Act by specific legislation.
(7)
Treaty country nationality.
The nationality of an individual treaty trader or treaty investor is determined by the authorities of the foreign state of which the alien is a national. In the case of an enterprise or organization, ownership must be traced as best as is practicable to the individuals who are ultimately its owners.
(8)
Terms and conditions of E treaty status
—(i)
Limitations on employment.
The Service determines the terms and conditions of E treaty status at the time of admission or approval of a request to change nonimmigrant status to E classification. A treaty trader, treaty investor, or treaty employee may engage only in employment which is consistent with the terms and conditions of his or her status and the activity forming the basis for the E treaty status.
(ii)
Subsidiary employment.
Treaty employees may perform work for the parent treaty organization or enterprise, or any subsidiary of the parent organization or enterprise. Performing work for subsidiaries of a common parent enterprise or organization will not be deemed to constitute a substantive change in the terms and conditions of the underlying E treaty employment if, at the time the E treaty status was determined, the applicant presented evidence establishing:
(A) The enterprise or organization, and any subsidiaries thereof, where the work will be performed; the requisite parent-subsidiary relationship; and that the subsidiary independently qualifies as a treaty organization or enterprise under this paragraph;
(B) In the case of an employee of a treaty trader or treaty investor, the work to be performed requires executive, supervisory, or essential skills; and
(C) The work is consistent with the terms and conditions of the activity forming the basis of the classification.
(iii)
Substantive changes.
Approval of USCIS must be obtained where there will be a substantive change in the terms or conditions of E status. The treaty alien must file a new application in accordance with the instructions on the form prescribed by USCIS requesting extension of stay in the United States, plus evidence of continued eligibility for E classification in the new capacity. Or the alien may obtain a visa reflecting the new terms and conditions and subsequently apply for admission at a port-of-entry. USCIS will deem there to have been a substantive change necessitating the filing of a new application where there has been a fundamental change in the employing entity's basic characteristics, such as a merger, acquisition, or sale of the division where the alien is employed.
(iv)
Non-substantive changes.
Neither prior approval nor a new application is required if there is no substantive, or fundamental, change in the terms or conditions of the alien's employment that would affect the alien's eligibility
for E classification. Further, prior approval is not required if corporate changes occur which do not affect the previously approved employment relationship or are otherwise non-substantive. To facilitate admission, the alien may:
(A) Present a letter from the treaty-qualifying company through which the alien attained E classification explaining the nature of the change;
(B) Request a new approval notice reflecting the non-substantive change by filing an application with a description of the change; or
(C) Apply directly to Department of State for a new E visa reflecting the change. An alien who does not elect one of the three options contained in paragraphs (e)(8)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section, is not precluded from demonstrating to the satisfaction of the immigration officer at the port-of-entry in some other manner, his or her admissibility under section 101(a)(15)(E) of the Act.
(v)
Advice.
To request advice from USCIS as to whether a change is substantive, an alien may file an application with a complete description of the change. In cases involving multiple employees, an alien may request that USCIS determine if a merger or other corporate restructuring requires the filing of separate applications by filing a single application and attaching a list of the related receipt numbers for the employees involved and an explanation of the change or changes.
(vi)
Approval.
If an application to change the terms and conditions of E status or employment is approved, the Service shall notify the applicant on Form I-797. An extension of stay in nonimmigrant E classification may be granted for the validity of the approved application. The alien is not authorized to begin the new employment until the application is approved. Employment is authorized only for the period of time the alien remains in the United States. If the alien subsequently departs from the United States, readmission in E classification may be authorized where the alien presents his or her unexpired E visa together with the Form I-797, Approval Notice, indicating Service approval of a change of employer or of a change in the substantive terms or conditions of treaty status or employment in E classification, or, in accordance with 22 CFR 41.112(d), where the alien is applying for readmission after an absence not exceeding 30 days solely in contiguous territory.
(vii) An unauthorized change of employment to a new employer will constitute a failure to maintain status within the meaning of section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act. In all cases where the treaty employee will be providing services to a subsidiary under this paragraph, the subsidiary is required to comply with the terms of 8 CFR part 274a.
(9)
Trade—definitions.
For purposes of this paragraph:
Items of trade
include but are not limited to goods, services, international banking, insurance, monies, transportation, communications, data processing, advertising, accounting, design and engineering, management consulting, tourism, technology and its transfer, and some news-gathering activities. For purposes of this paragraph, goods are tangible commodities or merchandise having extrinsic value. Further, as used in this paragraph, services are legitimate economic activities which provide other than tangible goods.
Trade
is the existing international exchange of items of trade for consideration between the United States and the treaty country. Existing trade includes successfully negotiated contracts binding upon the parties which call for the immediate exchange of items of trade. Domestic trade or the development of domestic markets without international exchange does not constitute trade for purposes of section 101(a)(15)(E) of the Act. This exchange must be traceable and identifiable. Title to the trade item must pass from one treaty party to the other.
(10)
Substantial trade.
Substantial trade is an amount of trade sufficient to ensure a continuous flow of international trade items between the United States and the treaty country. This continuous flow contemplates numerous transactions over time. Treaty trader status may not be established or maintained on the basis of a single transaction, regardless of how protracted or monetarily valuable the
transaction. Although the monetary value of the trade item being exchanged is a relevant consideration, greater weight will be given to more numerous exchanges of larger value. There is no minimum requirement with respect to the monetary value or volume of each individual transaction. In the case of smaller businesses, an income derived from the value of numerous transactions which is sufficient to support the treaty trader and his or her family constitutes a favorable factor in assessing the existence of substantial trade.
(11)
Principal trade.
Principal trade between the United States and the treaty country exists when over 50 percent of the volume of international trade of the treaty trader is conducted between the United States and the treaty country of the treaty trader's nationality.
(12)
Investment.
An investment is the treaty investor's placing of capital, including funds and other assets (which have not been obtained, directly or indirectly, through criminal activity), at risk in the commercial sense with the objective of generating a profit. The treaty investor must be in possession of and have control over the capital invested or being invested. The capital must be subject to partial or total loss if investment fortunes reverse. Such investment capital must be the investor's unsecured personal business capital or capital secured by personal assets. Capital in the process of being invested or that has been invested must be irrevocably committed to the enterprise. The alien has the burden of establishing such irrevocable commitment. The alien may use any legal mechanism available, such as the placement of invested funds in escrow pending admission in, or approval of, E classification, that would not only irrevocably commit funds to the enterprise, but might also extend personal liability protection to the treaty investor in the event the application for E classification is denied.
(13)
Bona fide enterprise.
The enterprise must be a real, active, and operating commercial or entrepreneurial undertaking which produces services or goods for profit. The enterprise must meet applicable legal requirements for doing business in the particular jurisdiction in the United States.
(14)
Substantial amount of capital.
A substantial amount of capital constitutes an amount which is:
(i) Substantial in relationship to the total cost of either purchasing an established enterprise or creating the type of enterprise under consideration;
(ii) Sufficient to ensure the treaty investor's financial commitment to the successful operation of the enterprise; and
(iii) Of a magnitude to support the likelihood that the treaty investor will successfully develop and direct the enterprise. Generally, the lower the cost of the enterprise, the higher, proportionately, the investment must be to be considered a substantial amount of capital.
(15)
Marginal enterprise.
For purposes of this section, an enterprise may not be marginal. A marginal enterprise is an enterprise that does not have the present or future capacity to generate more than enough income to provide a minimal living for the treaty investor and his or her family. An enterprise that does not have the capacity to generate such income, but that has a present or future capacity to make a significant economic contribution is not a marginal enterprise. The projected future income-generating capacity should generally be realizable within 5 years from the date the alien commences the normal business activity of the enterprise.
(16)
Solely to develop and direct.
An alien seeking classification as a treaty investor (or, in the case of an employee of a treaty investor, the owner of the treaty enterprise) must demonstrate that he or she does or will develop and direct the investment enterprise. Such an applicant must establish that he or she controls the enterprise by demonstrating ownership of at least 50 percent of the enterprise, by possessing operational control through a managerial position or other corporate device, or by other means.
(17)
Executive and supervisory character.
The applicant's position must be principally and primarily, as opposed to incidentally or collaterally, executive or supervisory in nature. Executive and supervisory duties are those
which provide the employee ultimate control and responsibility for the enterprise's overall operation or a major component thereof. In determining whether the applicant has established possession of the requisite control and responsibility, a Service officer shall consider, where applicable:
(i) That an executive position is one which provides the employee with great authority to determine the policy of, and the direction for, the enterprise;
(ii) That a position primarily of supervisory character provides the employee supervisory responsibility for a significant proportion of an enterprise's operations and does not generally involve the direct supervision of low-level employees, and;
(iii) Whether the applicant possesses executive and supervisory skills and experience; a salary and position title commensurate with executive or supervisory employment; recognition or indicia of the position as one of authority and responsibility in the overall organizational structure; responsibility for making discretionary decisions, setting policies, directing and managing business operations, supervising other professional and supervisory personnel; and that, if the position requires some routine work usually performed by a staff employee, such functions may only be of an incidental nature.
(18)
Special qualifications.
Special qualifications are those skills and/or aptitudes that an employee in a lesser capacity brings to a position or role that are essential to the successful or efficient operation of the treaty enterprise. In determining whether the skills possessed by the alien are essential to the operation of the employing treaty enterprise, a Service officer must consider, where applicable:
(i) The degree of proven expertise of the alien in the area of operations involved; whether others possess the applicant's specific skill or aptitude; the length of the applicant's experience and/or training with the treaty enterprise; the period of training or other experience necessary to perform effectively the projected duties; the relationship of the skill or knowledge to the enterprise's specific processes or applications, and the salary the special qualifications can command; that knowledge of a foreign language and culture does not, by itself, meet the special qualifications requirement, and;
(ii) Whether the skills and qualifications are readily available in the United States. In all cases, in determining whether the applicant possesses special qualifications which are essential to the treaty enterprise, a Service officer must take into account all the particular facts presented. A skill that is essential at one point in time may become commonplace at a later date. Skills that are needed to start up an enterprise may no longer be essential after initial operations are complete and running smoothly. Some skills are essential only in the short-term for the training of locally hired employees. Under certain circumstances, an applicant may be able to establish his or her essentiality to the treaty enterprise for a longer period of time, such as, in connection with activities in the areas of product improvement, quality control, or the provision of a service not yet generally available in the United States. Where the treaty enterprise's need for the applicant's special qualifications, and therefore, the applicant's essentiality, is time-limited, Service officers may request that the applicant provide evidence of the period for which skills will be needed and a reasonable projected date for completion of start-up or replacement of the essential skilled workers.
(19)
Period of admission.
Periods of admission are as follows:
(i) A treaty trader or treaty investor may be admitted for an initial period of not more than 2 years.
(ii) The spouse and minor children accompanying or following to join a treaty trader or treaty investor shall be admitted for the period during which the principal alien is in valid treaty trader or investor status. The temporary departure from the United States of the principal trader or investor shall not affect the derivative status of the dependent spouse and minor unmarried children, provided the familial relationship continues to exist and the principal remains eligible for
admission as an E nonimmigrant to perform the activity.
(iii) Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, an alien shall not be admitted in E classification for a period of time extending more than 6 months beyond the expiration date of the alien's passport.
(20)
Extensions of stay.
Requests for extensions of stay may be granted in increments of not more than 2 years. A treaty trader or treaty investor in valid E status may apply for an extension of stay by filing an application for extension of stay on the form prescribed by USCIS, with required accompanying documents, in accordance with § 214.1 and the instructions on that form.
(i) For purposes of eligibility for an extension of stay, the alien must prove that he or she:
(A) Has at all times maintained the terms and conditions of his or her E nonimmigrant classification;
(B) Was physically present in the United States at the time of filing the application for extension of stay; and
(C) Has not abandoned his or her extension request.
(ii) With limited exceptions, it is presumed that employees of treaty enterprises with special qualifications who are responsible for start-up operations should be able to complete their objectives within 2 years. Absent special circumstances, therefore, such employees will not be eligible to obtain an extension of stay.
(iii) Subject to paragraph (e)(5) of this section and the presumption noted in paragraph (e)(22)(ii) of this section, there is no specified number of extensions of stay that a treaty trader or treaty investor may be granted.
(21)
Change of nonimmigrant status.
(i) An alien in another valid nonimmigrant status may apply for change of status to E classification by filing an application for change of status on the form prescribed by USCIS, with required accompanying documents establishing eligibility for a change of status and E classification, in accordance with 8 CFR part 248 and the instructions on the form prescribed by USCIS.
(ii) The spouse or minor children of an applicant seeking a change of status to that of treaty trader or treaty investor alien shall file concurrent applications for change of status to derivative treaty classification on the appropriate Service form. Applications for derivative treaty status shall:
(A) Be approved only if the principal treaty alien is granted treaty alien status and continues to maintain that status;
(B) Be approved for the period of admission authorized in paragraph (e)(20) of this section.
(22)
Denial of treaty trader or treaty investor status to citizens of Canada or Mexico in the case of certain labor disputes.
(i) A citizen of Canada or Mexico may be denied E treaty trader or treaty investor status as described in section 101(a)(15)(E) of the Act and Section B of Annex 16-A of Chapter 16 of the USMCA if:
(A) The Secretary of Labor certifies to or otherwise informs the Commissioner that a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers in the alien's occupational classification is in progress at the place where the alien is or intends to be employed; and
(B) Temporary entry of that alien may affect adversely either:
(
1
) The settlement of any labor dispute that is in progress at the place or intended place of employment, or
(
2
) The employment of any person who is involved in such dispute.
(ii) If the alien has already commenced employment in the United States and is participating in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, whether or not such strike or other labor dispute has been certified by the Secretary of Labor, or whether the Service has been otherwise informed that such a strike or labor dispute is in progress, the alien shall not be deemed to be failing to maintain his or her status solely on account of past, present, or future participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, but is subject to the following terms and conditions:
(A) The alien shall remain subject to all applicable provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and regulations promulgated in the same manner as all other E nonimmigrants; and
(B) The status and authorized period of stay of such an alien is not modified or extended in any way by virtue of his or her participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers.
(iii) Although participation by an E nonimmigrant alien in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers will not constitute a ground for deportation, any alien who violates his or her status or who remains in the United States after his or her authorized period of stay has expired will be subject to deportation.
(iv) If there is a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers in progress, but such strike or other labor dispute is not certified under paragraph (e)(22)(i) of this section, or the Service has not otherwise been informed by the Secretary that such a strike or labor dispute is in progress, the Commissioner shall not deny entry to an applicant for E status.
(23)
Special procedures for classifying foreign investors in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) as E-2 nonimmigrant treaty investors under title VII of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-229), 48 U.S.C. 1806.
(i)
E-2 CNMI Investor eligibility.
During the period ending on January 18, 2013, an alien may, upon application to the Secretary of Homeland Security, be classified as a CNMI-only nonimmigrant treaty investor (E-2 CNMI Investor) under section 101(a)(15)(E)(ii) of the Act if the alien:
(A) Was lawfully admitted to the CNMI in long-term investor status under the immigration laws of the CNMI before the transition program effective date and had that status on the transition program effective date;
(B) Has continuously maintained residence in the CNMI;
(C) Is otherwise admissible to the United States; and
(D) Maintains the investment or investments that formed the basis for such long-term investment status.
(ii)
Definitions.
For purposes of paragraph (e)(23) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(A)
Approved investment or residence
means an investment or residence approved by the CNMI government.
(B)
Approval letter
means a letter issued by the CNMI government certifying the acceptance of an approved investment subject to the minimum investment criteria and standards provided in 4 N. Mar. I. Code section 5941
et seq.
(long-term business certificate), 4 N. Mar. I. Code section 5951
et seq.
(foreign investor certificate), and 4 N. Mar. I. Code section 50101
et seq.
(foreign retiree investment certificate).
(C)
Certificate
means a certificate or certification issued by the CNMI government to an applicant whose application has been approved by the CNMI government.
(D)
Continuously maintained residence in the CNMI
means that the alien has maintained his or her residence within the CNMI since being lawfully admitted as a long-term investor and has been physically present therein for periods totaling at least half of that time. Absence from the CNMI for any continuous period of more than six months but less than one year after such lawful admission shall break the continuity of such residence, unless the subject alien establishes to the satisfaction of DHS that he or she did not in fact abandon residence in the CNMI during such period. Absence from the CNMI for any period of one year or more during the period for which continuous residence is required shall break the continuity of such residence.
(E)
Public organization
means a CNMI public corporation or an agency of the CNMI government.
(F) Transition period means the period beginning on the transition program effective date and ending on December 31, 2029.
(iii)
Long-term investor status.
Long-term investor status under the immigration laws of the CNMI includes only the following investor classifications under CNMI immigration laws as in effect on or before November 27, 2009:
(A)
Long-term business investor.
An alien who has an approved investment of at least $50,000 in the CNMI, as evidenced by a Long-Term Business Certificate.
(B)
Foreign investor.
An alien in the CNMI who has invested either a minimum of $100,000 in an aggregate approved investment in excess of $2,000,000, or a minimum of $250,000 in a
single approved investment, as evidenced by a Foreign Investment Certificate.
(C)
Retiree investor.
An alien in the CNMI who:
(
1
) Is over the age of 55 years and has invested a minimum of $100,000 in an approved residence on Saipan or $75,000 in an approved residence on Tinian or Rota, as evidenced by a Foreign Retiree Investment Certification; or
(
2
) Is over the age of 55 years and has invested a minimum of $150,000 in an approved residence to live in the CNMI, as evidenced by a Foreign Retiree Investment Certificate.
(iv)
Maintaining investments.
An alien in long-term investor status under the immigration laws of the CNMI is maintaining his or her investments if that alien investor is in compliance with the terms upon which the investor certificate was issued.
(v)
Filing procedures.
An alien seeking classification under E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status must file an application for E-2 CNMI investor nonimmigrant status, along with accompanying evidence, with USCIS in accordance with the form instructions before January 18, 2013. An application filed after the filing date deadline will be rejected.
(vi)
Appropriate documents.
Documentary evidence establishing eligibility for E-2 CNMI nonimmigrant investor status is required.
(A) Required evidence of admission includes a valid unexpired foreign passport and a properly endorsed CNMI admission document (
e.g.,
entry permit or certificate) reflecting lawful admission to the CNMI in long-term business investor, foreign investor, or retiree foreign investor status.
(B) Required evidence of long-term investor status includes:
(
1
) An unexpired Long-Term Business Certificate, in the case of an alien in long-term business investor status.
(
2
) An unexpired Foreign Investment Certificate, in the case of an alien in foreign investor status.
(
3
) A Foreign Retiree Investment Certification or a Foreign Retiree Investment Certificate, in the case of an alien in retiree investor status.
(C) Required evidence that the long-term investor is maintaining his or her investment includes all of the following, as applicable:
(
1
) An approval letter issued by the CNMI government.
(
2
) Evidence that capital has been invested, including bank statements showing amounts deposited in CNMI business accounts, invoices, receipts or contracts for assets purchased, stock purchase transaction records, loan or other borrowing agreements, land leases, financial statements, business gross tax receipts, or any other agreements supporting the application.
(
3
) Evidence that the applicant has invested at least the minimum amount required, including evidence of assets which have been purchased for use in the enterprise, evidence of property transferred from abroad for use in the enterprise, evidence of monies transferred or committed to be transferred to the new or existing enterprise in exchange for shares of stock, any loan or mortgage, promissory note, security agreement, or other evidence of borrowing which is secured by assets of the applicant.
(
4
) A comprehensive business plan for new enterprises.
(
5
) Articles of incorporation, by-laws, partnership agreements, joint venture agreements, corporate minutes and annual reports, affidavits, declarations, or certifications of paid-in capital.
(
6
) Current business licenses.
(
7
) Foreign business registration records, recent tax returns of any kind, evidence of other sources of capital.
(
8
) A listing of all resident and nonresident employees.
(
9
) A listing of all holders of business certificates for the business establishment.
(
10
) A listing of all corporations in which the applicant has a controlling interest.
(
11
) In the case of a holder of a certificate of foreign investment, copies of annual reports of investment activities in the CNMI containing sufficient information to determine whether the certificate holder is under continuing compliance with the standards of issuance, accompanied by annual financial audit reports performed by an independent certified public accountant.
(
12
) In the case of an applicant who is a retiree investor, evidence that he or she has an interest in property in the CNMI (
e.g.,
lease agreement), evidence of the value of the property interest (
e.g.,
an appraisal regarding the value of the property), and, as applicable, evidence of the value of the improvements on the property (
e.g.,
receipts or invoices of the costs of construction, the amount paid for a preexisting structure, or an appraisal of improvements).
(vii)
Physical presence in the CNMI.
Physical presence in the CNMI at the time of filing or during the pendency of the application is not required, but an application may not be filed by, or E-2 CNMI Investor status granted to, any alien present in U.S. territory other than in the CNMI. If an alien with CNMI long-term investor status departs the CNMI on or after the transition program effective date but before being granted E-2 CNMI Investor status, he or she may not be re-admitted to the CNMI without a visa or appropriate inadmissibility waiver under the U.S. immigration laws. If USCIS grants E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant classification to an alien who is not physically present in the CNMI at the time of the grant, such alien must obtain an E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant visa at a consular office abroad in order to seek admission to the CNMI in E-2 CNMI Investor status.
(viii)
Information for background checks.
USCIS may require an applicant for E-2 CNMI Investor status, including but not limited to any applicant for derivative status as a spouse or child, to submit biometrics as required under 8 CFR 103.16.
(ix)
Denial.
A grant of E-2 CNMI Investor status is a discretionary determination, and the application may be denied for failure of the applicant to demonstrate eligibility or for other good cause. Denial of the application may be appealed to the USCIS Administrative Appeals Office or any successor body.
(x)
Spouse and children of an E-2 CNMI Investor
—(A)
Classification.
The spouse and children of an E-2 CNMI Investor accompanying or following-to-join the principal alien, if otherwise admissible, may receive the same classification as the principal alien. The nationality of a spouse or child of an E-2 CNMI investor is not material to the classification of the spouse or child.
(B)
Employment authorization.
The spouse of an E-2 CNMI Investor lawfully admitted in the CNMI in E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status, other than the spouse of an E-2 CNMI investor who obtained such status based upon a Foreign Retiree Investment Certificate, is eligible to apply for employment authorization under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(12) while in E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status. Employment authorization acquired under this paragraph is limited to employment in the CNMI only.
(xi)
Terms and conditions of E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status
—(A)
Nonimmigrant status.
E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status and any derivative status are only applicable in the CNMI. Entry, employment, and residence in the rest of the United States (including Guam) require the appropriate visa or visa waiver eligibility. An E-2 CNMI Investor who enters, attempts to enter or attempts to travel to any other part of the United States without the appropriate visa or visa waiver eligibility, or who violates conditions of nonimmigrant stay applicable to any such authorized status in any other part of the United States, will be deemed to have violated the terms and conditions of his or her E-2 CNMI Investor status. An E-2 CNMI Investor who departs the CNMI will require an E-2 CNMI investor visa for readmission to the CNMI as an E-2 CNMI Investor.
(B)
Employment authorization.
An alien with E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status is only employment authorized in the CNMI for the enterprise that is the basis for his or her CNMI Foreign Investment Certificate or Long-Term Business Certificate, to the extent that such Certificate authorized such activity. An alien with E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status based upon a Foreign Retiree Investor Certificate is not employment authorized.
(C)
Changes in E-2 CNMI investor nonimmigrant status.
If there are any substantive changes to an alien's compliance with the terms and conditions of qualification for E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status, the alien must file a new application for E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status, in accordance with the appropriate form instructions to request an extension of stay in the United States. Prior approval is not required if corporate changes occur that do not affect a previously approved employment relationship, or are otherwise non-substantive.
(D)
Unauthorized change of employment.
An unauthorized change of employment to a new employer will constitute a failure to maintain status within the meaning of section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(E)
Periods of admission.
(
1
) An E-2 CNMI Investor may be admitted for an initial period of not more than two years.
(
2
) The spouse and children accompanying or following-to-join an E-2 CNMI Investor may be admitted for the period during which the principal alien is in valid E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status. The temporary departure from the United States of the principal E-2 CNMI Investor shall not affect the derivative status of the dependent spouse and children, provided the familial relationship continues to exist and the principal alien remains eligible for admission as an E-2 CNMI Investor.
(xii)
Extensions of stay.
Requests for extensions of E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status may be granted in increments of not more than two years, until the end of the transition period. To request an extension of stay, an E-2 CNMI Investor must file with USCIS an application for extension of stay, with required accompanying documents, in accordance with the appropriate form instructions. To qualify for an extension of E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status, each alien must demonstrate:
(A) Continuous maintenance of the terms and conditions of E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status;
(B) Physical presence in the CNMI at the time of filing the application for extension of stay; and
(C) That he or she did not leave during the pendency of the application.
(xiii)
Change of status.
An alien lawfully admitted to the United States in another valid nonimmigrant status who is continuing to maintain that status may apply to change nonimmigrant status to E-2 CNMI Investor in accordance with paragraph (e)(21) of this section, if otherwise eligible, including but not limited to having been in CNMI long-term investor status on the transition date and within the period provided by paragraph (e)(23)(v) of this section.
(xiv)
Expiration of the transition period.
Upon expiration of the transition period, the E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status will automatically terminate.
(xv) [Reserved]
(xvi)
Waiver of inadmissibility for applicants present in the CNMI.
An applicant for E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status, who is otherwise eligible for such status and otherwise admissible to the United States, and who has provided all appropriate documents as described in paragraph (e)(23)(vi) of this section, may be granted a waiver of inadmissibility under section 212(d)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act, including the grounds of inadmissibility described in sections 212(a)(6)(A)(i) (to the extent such grounds arise solely because of the alien's presence in the CNMI on November 28, 2009) and 212(a)(7)(B)(i)(II) of the Act, for the purpose of granting the E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status. Such waiver may be granted without additional form or fee required. In the case of an application by a spouse or child as described in paragraph (e)(23)(x) of this section who is present in the CNMI, the appropriate documents required for such waiver are a valid unexpired passport and evidence that the spouse or child is lawfully present in the CNMI under section 1806(e) of title 48, U.S. Code (which may include evidence of a grant of parole by USCIS or by the Department of Homeland Security pursuant to a grant of advance parole by USCIS in furtherance of section 1806(e) of title 48, U.S. Code).
(f)
Students in colleges, universities, seminaries, conservatories, academic high
schools, elementary schools, other academic institutions, and in language training programs.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
f
)—Paragraph Contents
(1) Admission of student
(2) Form I-20 or successor form
(3) Admission of the spouse and minor children of an F-1 student
(4) Temporary absence
(5) Duration of status
(6) Full course of study
(7) Extension of stay
(8) School transfer
(9) Employment
(10) Practical training
(11) OPT application and approval process
(12) Reporting while on optional practical training
(13) Temporary absence from the United States of F-1 student granted employment authorization
(14) Effect of strike or other labor dispute
(15) Spouse and children of F-1 student
(16) Reinstatement to student status
(17) Current name and address
(18) Special rules for certain border commuter students
(19) Remittance of the fee
(1)
Admission of student
—(i)
Eligibility for admission.
A nonimmigrant student may be admitted into the United States in nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(F) of the Act, if:
(A) The student presents a Form I-20 or successor form issued in the student's name by a school certified by the Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP) for attendance by F-1 foreign students;
(B) The student has documentary evidence of financial support in the amount indicated on the Form I-20 or successor form;
(C) For students seeking initial admission only, the student intends to attend the school specified in the student's visa (or, where the student is exempt from the requirement for a visa, the school indicated on the Form I-20 or successor form); and
(D) In the case of a student who intends to study at a public secondary school, the student has demonstrated that he or she has reimbursed the local educational agency that administers the school for the full, unsubsidized per capita cost of providing education at the school for the period of the student's attendance.
(ii)
Form I-20 or successor form requirements at the port-of-entry.
When an F-1 student applies for admission with a complete Form I-20 or successor form, the inspecting officer will:
(A) Transcribe the student's admission number from Form I-94 onto the student's Form I-20 or successor form (for students seeking initial admission only);
(B) Endorse the Form I-20 or successor form; and
(C) Return the Form I-20 or successor form to the student.
(iii)
Use of the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS).
Schools must issue a Form I-20 or successor form in SEVIS to any current student requiring a reportable action (
e.g.,
extension of stay, practical training, and requests for employment authorization), or to any alien who must obtain a new nonimmigrant student visa.
(2)
Student maintenance of Form I-20 or successor form.
An F-1 student is expected to retain for safekeeping the initial Form I-20 or successor form bearing the admission number and any subsequent Form I-20 issued to them. Should the student lose their current Form I-20 or successor form, a replacement copy bearing the same information as the lost copy, including any endorsement for employment and notations, should be issued by the designated school official (DSO) as defined in § 214.3(l)(1).
(3)
Admission of the spouse and minor children of an F-1 student.
The spouse and minor children accompanying an F-1 student are eligible for admission in F-2 status if the student is admitted in F-1 status. The spouse and minor children following-to-join an F-1 student are eligible for admission to the United States in F-2 status if they are able to demonstrate that the F-1 student has been admitted and is, or will be within 30 days, enrolled in a full course of study, or engaged in approved practical training following completion of studies. In either case, at the time they seek admission, the eligible spouse and minor children of an F-1
student must individually present a Form I-20 or successor form in the name of each F-2 dependent issued by a school certified by SEVP for attendance by F-1 students. A new Form I-20 or successor form is required for a dependent where there has been any substantive change in the F-1 student's current information.
(4)
Temporary absence.
An F-1 student returning to the United States from a temporary absence of five months or less may be readmitted for attendance at an SEVP-certified educational institution, if the student presents:
(i) A current Form I-20 or successor form properly endorsed by the DSO for reentry if there has been no substantive change to the most recent Form I-20 or successor form information; or
(ii) An updated Form I-20 or successor form if there has been a substantive change in the information on the student's most recent Form I-20 or successor form, such as in the case of a student who has changed the major area of study, who intends to transfer to another SEVP-certified institution, or who has advanced to a higher level of study.
(5)
Duration of status
—(i)
General.
Duration of status is defined as the time during which an F-1 student is pursuing a full course of study at an educational institution certified by SEVP for attendance by foreign students, or engaging in authorized practical training following completion of studies, except that an F-1 student who is admitted to attend a public high school is restricted to an aggregate of 12 months of study at any public high school(s). An F-1 student may be admitted for a period up to 30 days before the indicated report date or program start date listed on the Form I-20 or successor form. The student is considered to be maintaining status if the student is making normal progress toward completing a course of study.
(ii)
Change in educational levels.
An F-1 student who continues from one educational level to another is considered to be maintaining status, provided that the transition to the new educational level is accomplished according to transfer procedures outlined in paragraph (f)(8) of this section.
(iii)
Annual vacation.
An F-1 student at an academic institution is considered to be in status during the annual (or summer) vacation if the student is eligible and intends to register for the next term. A student attending a school on a quarter or trimester calendar who takes only one vacation a year during any one of the quarters or trimesters instead of during the summer is considered to be in status during that vacation, if the student has completed the equivalent of an academic year prior to taking the vacation.
(iv)
Preparation for departure.
An F-1 student who has completed a course of study and any authorized practical training following completion of studies will be allowed an additional 60-day period to prepare for departure from the United States or to transfer in accordance with paragraph (f)(8) of this section. An F-1 student authorized by the DSO to withdraw from classes will be allowed a 15-day period for departure from the United States. However, an F-1 student who fails to maintain a full course of study without the approval of the DSO or otherwise fails to maintain status is not eligible for an additional period for departure.
(v)
Emergent circumstances as determined by the Secretary.
Where the Secretary has suspended the applicability of any or all of the requirements for on-campus or off-campus employment authorization for specified students pursuant to paragraphs (f)(9)(i) or (ii) of this section by notice in the
Federal Register,
an affected student who needs to reduce their full course of study as a result of accepting employment authorized by such notice in the
Federal Register
will be considered to be in status during the authorized employment, subject to any other conditions specified in the notice, provided that, for the duration of the authorized employment, the student is registered for the number of semester or quarter hours of instruction per academic term specified in the notice, which in no event shall be less than six semester or quarter hours of instruction per academic term if the student is at the undergraduate level or less than three semester or quarter hours of instruction per academic term if the student is at the graduate level, and is continuing to
make progress toward completing the course of study.
(vi)
Extension of duration of status and grant of employment authorization.
(A) The duration of status, and any employment authorization granted under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(3)(i)(B) or (C), of an F-1 student who is the beneficiary of an H-1B petition subject to section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(1)(A)) and request for change of status shall be automatically extended until October 1 of the fiscal year for which such H-1B status is being requested where such petition:
(
1
) Has been timely filed; and
(
2
) Requests an H-1B employment start date of October 1 of the following fiscal year.
(B) The automatic extension of an F-1 student's duration of status and employment authorization under paragraph (f)(5)(vi)(A) of this section shall automatically terminate upon the rejection, denial, revocation, or withdrawal of the H-1B petition filed on such F-1 student's behalf or upon the denial or withdrawal of the request for change of nonimmigrant status, even if the H-1B petition filed on the F-1 student's behalf is approved for consular processing.
(C) In order to obtain the automatic extension of stay and employment authorization under paragraph (f)(5)(vi)(A) of this section, the F-1 student, consistent with 8 CFR part 248, must not have violated the terms or conditions of his or her nonimmigrant status.
(D) An automatic extension of an F-1 student's duration of status under paragraph (f)(5)(vi)(A) of this section also applies to the duration of status of any F-2 dependent aliens.
(6)
Full course of study
—(i)
General.
Successful completion of the full course of study must lead to the attainment of a specific educational or professional objective. A course of study at an institution not certified for attendance by foreign students as provided in § 214.3(a)(3) does not satisfy the requirement of this paragraph (f)(6)(i). A “full course of study” as required by section 101(a)(15)(F)(i) of the Act means:
(A) Postgraduate study or postdoctoral study at a college or university, or undergraduate or postgraduate study at a conservatory or religious seminary, certified by a DSO as a full course of study;
(B) Undergraduate study at a college or university, certified by a school official to consist of at least 12 semester or quarter hours of instruction per academic term in those institutions using standard semester, trimester, or quarter hour systems, where all undergraduate students who are enrolled for a minimum of 12 semester or quarter hours are charged full-time tuition or are considered full-time for other administrative purposes, or its equivalent (as determined by SEVP in the school certification process), except when the student needs a lesser course load to complete the course of study during the current term;
(C) Study in a postsecondary language, liberal arts, fine arts, or other non-vocational program at a school which confers upon its graduates recognized associate or other degrees or has established that its credits have been and are accepted unconditionally by at least three other institutions of higher learning which are either:
(
1
) A school (or school system) owned and operated as a public educational institution by the United States or a State or political subdivision thereof; or
(
2
) A school accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body; and which has been certified by a designated school official to consist of at least 12 clock hours of instruction a week, or its equivalent as determined by SEVP in the school certification process;
(D) Study in any other language, liberal arts, fine arts, or other nonvocational training program, certified by a designated school official to consist of at least eighteen clock hours of attendance a week if the dominant part of the course of study consists of classroom instruction, or to consist of at least twenty-two clock hours a week if the dominant part of the course of study consists of laboratory work; or
(E) Study in a curriculum at a certified private elementary or middle school or public or private academic high school which is certified by a designated school official to consist of
class attendance for not less than the minimum number of hours a week prescribed by the school for normal progress toward graduation.
(F) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, an alien who has been granted employment authorization pursuant to the terms of a document issued by the Secretary under paragraphs (f)(9)(i) or (ii) of this section and published in the
Federal Register
shall be deemed to be engaged in a “full course of study” if he or she remains registered for no less than the number of semester or quarter hours of instruction per academic term specified by the Secretary in the notice for the validity period of such employment authorization.
(G) For F-1 students enrolled in classes for credit or classroom hours, no more than the equivalent of one class or three credits per session, term, semester, trimester, or quarter may be counted toward the full course of study requirement if the class is taken on-line or through distance education and does not require the student's physical attendance for classes, examination or other purposes integral to completion of the class. An on-line or distance education course is a course that is offered principally through the use of television, audio, or computer transmission including open broadcast, closed circuit, cable, microwave, or satellite, audio conferencing, or computer conferencing. If the F-1 student's course of study is in a language study program, no on-line or distance education classes may be considered to count toward a student's full course of study requirement.
(H) On-campus employment pursuant to the terms of a scholarship, fellowship, or assistantship is deemed to be part of the academic program of a student otherwise taking a full course of study.
(ii)
Institution of higher learning.
For purposes of this paragraph, a college or university is an institution of higher learning which awards recognized associate, bachelor's, master's, doctorate, or professional degrees. Schools which devote themselves exclusively or primarily to vocational, business, or language instruction are not included in the category of colleges or universities. Vocational or business schools which are classifiable as M-1 schools are provided for by regulations under 8 CFR 214.2(m).
(iii)
Reduced course load.
The designated school official may allow an F-1 student to engage in less than a full course of study as provided in this paragraph (f)(6)(iii). Except as otherwise noted, a reduced course load must consist of at least six semester or quarter hours, or half the clock hours required for a full course of study. A student who drops below a full course of study without the prior approval of the DSO will be considered out of status. On-campus employment pursuant to the terms of a scholarship, fellowship, or assistantship is deemed to be part of the academic program of a student otherwise taking a full course of study.
(A)
Academic difficulties.
The DSO may authorize a reduced course load on account of a student's initial difficulty with the English language or reading requirements, unfamiliarity with U.S. teaching methods, or improper course level placement. The student must resume a full course of study at the next available term, session, or semester, excluding a summer session, in order to maintain student status. A student previously authorized to drop below a full course of study due to academic difficulties is not eligible for a second authorization by the DSO due to academic difficulties while pursuing a course of study at that program level. A student authorized to drop below a full course of study for academic difficulties while pursuing a course of study at a particular program level may still be authorized for a reduced course load due to an illness medical condition as provided for in paragraph (B) of this section.
(B)
Medical conditions.
The DSO may authorize a reduced course load (or, if necessary, no course load) due to a student's temporary illness or medical condition for a period of time not to exceed an aggregate of 12 months while the student is pursuing a course of study at a particular program level. In order to authorize a reduced course load based upon a medical condition, the student must provide medical documentation from a licensed medical doctor, a licensed doctor of osteopathy, a
licensed psychologist, or a licensed clinical psychologist to the DSO to substantiate the illness or medical condition. The student must provide current medical documentation and the DSO must reauthorize the drop below full course of study each new term, session, or semester. A student previously authorized to drop below a full course of study due to illness or medical condition for an aggregate of 12 months may not be authorized by a DSO to reduce their course load on subsequent occasions while pursuing a course of study at the same program level. A student may be authorized to reduce course load for a reason of illness or medical condition on more than one occasion while pursuing a course of study, so long as the aggregate period of that authorization does not exceed 12 months.
(C)
Completion of course of study.
The DSO may authorize a reduced course load in the student's final term, semester, or session if fewer courses are needed to complete the course of study. If the student is not required to take any additional courses to satisfy the requirements for completion, but continues to be enrolled for administrative purposes, the student is considered to have completed the course of study and must take action to maintain status. Such action may include application for change of status or departure from the U.S.
(D) [Reserved]
(E)
Reporting requirements.
In order for a student to be authorized to drop below a full course of study, the DSO must update SEVIS prior to the student reducing their course load. The DSO must update SEVIS with the date, reason for authorization, and the start date of the next term or session. The DSO must also notify SEVIS within 21 days of the student's commencement of a full course of study. If an extension of the program end date is required due to the student dropping below a full course of study, the DSO must update SEVIS by completing a new Form I-20 or successor form with the new program end date in accordance with paragraph (f)(7) of this section.
(iv)
Concurrent enrollment.
An F-1 student may be enrolled in two different SEVP-certified schools at one time as long as the combined enrollment amounts to a full course of study. In cases where a student is concurrently enrolled, the school from which the student will earn their degree or certification should issue the Form I-20 or successor form, and conduct subsequent certifications and updates to the Form I-20 or successor form. The DSO from this school is also responsible for all of the reporting requirements to SEVP. In instances where a student is enrolled in programs with different full course of study requirements (
e.g.,
clock hours vs. credit hours), the DSO is permitted to determine what constitutes a full course of study.
(7)
Extension of stay
—(i)
General.
An F-1 student who is admitted for duration of status is not required to apply for extension of stay as long as the student is maintaining status and making normal progress toward completion of their educational objective. An F-1 student who is currently maintaining status and making normal progress toward completing their educational objective, but who is unable to complete their course of study by the program end date on the Form I-20 or successor form, must apply prior to the program end date for a program extension pursuant to paragraph (f)(7)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Report date and program completion date on Form I-20 or successor form.
When determining the report date on the Form I-20 or successor form, the DSO may choose a reasonable date to accommodate a student's need to be in attendance for required activities at the school prior to the actual start of classes. Such required activities may include, but are not limited to, research projects and orientation sessions. However, for purposes of employment, the DSO may not indicate a report date more than 30 days prior to the start of classes. When determining the program completion date on Form I-20 or successor form, the DSO should make a reasonable estimate based upon the time an average student would need to complete a similar program in the same discipline.
(iii)
Program extension for students in lawful status.
An F-1 student who is unable to meet the program completion date on the Form I-20 or successor
form may be granted an extension by the DSO if the DSO certifies that the student has continually maintained status and that the delays are caused by compelling academic or medical reasons, such as changes of major or research topics, unexpected research problems, or documented illnesses. Delays caused by academic probation or suspension are not acceptable reasons for program extensions. A DSO may not grant an extension if the student did not apply for an extension until after the program end date noted on the Form I-20 or successor form. An F-1 student who is unable to complete the educational program within the time listed on Form I-20 or successor form and who is ineligible for program extension pursuant to this paragraph (f)(7) is considered out of status. If eligible, the student may apply for reinstatement under the provisions of paragraph (f)(16) of this section.
(iv)
SEVIS update.
A DSO may grant a program extension only by updating SEVIS and issuing a new Form I-20 or successor form reflecting the current program end date. A DSO may grant an extension any time prior to the program end date listed on the student's Form I-20 or successor form.
(8)
School transfer
—(i)
General.
A student who is maintaining status may transfer to another SEVP-certified school by following the notification procedure prescribed in paragraph (f)(8)(ii) of this section. However, an F-1 student is not permitted to remain in the United States when transferring between schools or programs unless the student will begin classes at the transfer school or program within five months of transferring out of the current school or within 5 months of the program completion date on their current Form I-20 or successor form, whichever is earlier. In the case of an F-1 student authorized to engage in post-completion optional practical training (OPT), the student must be able resume classes within 5 months of transferring out of the school that recommended OPT or the date the OPT authorization ends, whichever is earlier. An F-1 student who was not pursuing a full course of study at the school he or she was last authorized to attend is ineligible for school transfer and must apply for reinstatement under the provisions of paragraph (f)(16) of this section, or, in the alternative, may depart the country and return as an initial entry in a new F-1 nonimmigrant status.
(ii)
Transfer procedure.
To transfer schools, the student must first notify their current school (the “transfer-out” school) of the intent to transfer and indicate the school to which the student intends to transfer (the “transfer-in” school). Upon notification by the student, the transfer-out school must update SEVIS to show the student is transferring out, indicate the transfer-in school, and input the transfer release date. The release date will be the current semester or session completion date, or the date of expected transfer if earlier than the established academic cycle. The transfer-out school will retain control over the student's record in SEVIS until the student completes the current term or reaches the release date. At the request of the student, the DSO of the transfer-out school may cancel the transfer request at any time prior to the release date. As of the release date specified by the transfer-out DSO, the transfer-in school will be granted full access to the student's SEVIS record and then becomes responsible for that student. The transfer-out school conveys authority and responsibility over that student to the transfer-in school and relinquishes its SEVIS access to that student's record. As such, a transfer request may not be cancelled by the transfer-out DSO after the release date has been reached. After the release date, the transfer-in DSO must complete the transfer of the student's record in SEVIS and may issue a Form I-20 or successor form. The student is then required to contact the DSO at the transfer-in school within 15 days of the program start date listed on the Form I-20 or successor form. Upon notification that the student is enrolled in classes, the transfer-in DSO must update SEVIS to reflect the student's registration and current address, thereby acknowledging that the student has completed the transfer process. The transfer is completed when the transfer-in school notifies SEVIS that the student has enrolled in classes in accordance
with the 30 days required by § 214.3(g)(2)(iii).
(iii) [Reserved]
(9)
Employment
—(i)
On-campus employment.
On-campus employment must either be performed on the school's premises, (including on-location commercial firms which provide services for students on campus, such as the school bookstore or cafeteria), or at an off-campus location that is educationally affiliated with the school. Employment with on-site commercial firms, such as a construction company building a school building, which do not provide direct student services is not deemed on-campus employment for the purposes of this paragraph (f)(9)(i). In the case of off-campus locations, the educational affiliation must be associated with the school's established curriculum or related to contractually funded research projects at the post-graduate level. In any event, the employment must be an integral part of the student's educational program. Employment authorized under this paragraph (f)(9)(i) must not exceed 20 hours a week while school is in session, unless the Secretary suspends the applicability of this limitation due to emergent circumstances, as determined by the Secretary, by means of notice in the
Federal Register
,
the student demonstrates to the DSO that the employment is necessary to avoid severe economic hardship resulting from the emergent circumstances, and the DSO notates the Form I-20 or successor form in accordance with the
Federal Register
document. An F-1 student may, however, work on campus full-time when school is not in session or during the annual vacation. A student who has been issued a Form I-20 or successor form to begin a new program in accordance with the provision of § 214.3(k) and who intends to enroll for the next regular academic year, term, or session at the institution that issued the Form I-20 or successor form may continue on-campus employment incident to status. Otherwise, an F-1 student may not engage in on-campus employment after completing a course of study, except employment for practical training as authorized under paragraph (f)(10) of this section. An F-1 student may engage in any on-campus employment authorized under this paragraph (f)(9)(i) which will not displace United States residents. In the case of a transfer in SEVIS, the student may only engage in on-campus employment at the school having jurisdiction over the student's SEVIS record. Upon initial entry to begin a new course of study, an F-1 student may not begin on-campus employment more than 30 days prior to the actual start of classes.
(ii)
Off-campus work authorization
—(A)
General.
An F-1 student may be authorized to work off-campus on a part-time basis in accordance with paragraph (f)(9)(ii)(C) of this section after having been in F-1 status for one full academic year provided that the student is in good academic standing as determined by the DSO. Part-time off-campus employment authorized under this section is limited to no more than 20 hours a week when school is in session. A student who is granted off-campus employment authorization may work full-time during holidays or school vacation. The employment authorization is automatically terminated whenever the student fails to maintain status. In emergent circumstances as determined by the Secretary, the Secretary may suspend the applicability of any or all of the requirements of paragraph (f)(9)(ii) of this section by notice in the
Federal Register
.
(B) [Reserved]
(C)
Severe economic hardship.
If other employment opportunities are not available or are otherwise insufficient, an eligible F-1 student may request off-campus employment work authorization based upon severe economic hardship caused by unforeseen circumstances beyond the student's control. These circumstances may include loss of financial aid or on-campus employment without fault on the part of the student, substantial fluctuations in the value of currency or exchange rate, inordinate increases in tuition and/or living costs, unexpected changes in the financial condition of the student's source of support, medical bills, or other substantial and unexpected expenses.
(D)
Procedure for off-campus employment authorization due to severe economic
hardship.
The student must request a recommendation from the DSO for off-campus employment. The DSO must complete such certification in SEVIS. The DSO may recommend the student for work off-campus for one-year intervals by certifying that:
(
1
) The student has been in F-1 status for one full academic year;
(
2
) The student is in good standing as a student and is carrying a full course of study as defined in paragraph (f)(6) of this section;
(
3
) The student has demonstrated that acceptance of employment will not interfere with the student's carrying a full course of study; and
(
4
) The student has demonstrated that the employment is necessary to avoid severe economic hardship due to unforeseen circumstances beyond the student's control pursuant to paragraph (f)(9)(ii)(C) of this section and has demonstrated that employment under paragraph (f)(9)(i) of this section is unavailable or otherwise insufficient to meet the needs that have arisen as a result of the unforeseen circumstances.
(E) [Reserved]
(F)
Severe economic hardship application
—(
1
) The applicant should submit the economic hardship application for employment authorization on Form I-765 or successor form, with the fee required by 8 CFR 106.2, and any other supporting materials such as affidavits which further detail the unforeseen circumstances that require the student to seek employment authorization and the unavailability or insufficiency of employment under paragraph (f)(9)(i) of this section to USCIS. Students should submit the Form I-20 or successor form with the employment page demonstrating the DSO's comments and certification. USCIS will adjudicate the application for work authorization based upon severe economic hardship on the basis of Form I-20 and Form I-765 or successor forms, and any additional supporting materials. If employment is authorized, the adjudicating officer will issue an employment authorization document (EAD). USCIS will notify the student of the decision, and, if the application is denied, of the reason or reasons for the denial. No appeal will lie from a decision to deny a request for employment authorization under this section. The employment authorization may be granted in one-year intervals up to the expected date of completion of the student's current course of study. A student has permission to engage in off-campus employment only if the student receives the EAD endorsed to that effect. Off-campus employment authorization may be renewed by USCIS only if the student is maintaining status and good academic standing. The employment authorization is automatically terminated whenever the student fails to maintain status.
(
2
) [Reserved]
(iii)
Internship with an international organization.
A bona fide F-1 student who has been offered employment by a recognized international organization within the meaning of the International Organization Immunities Act (59 Stat. 669) must apply for employment authorization with USCIS. A student seeking employment authorization under this provision is required to present a written certification from the international organization that the proposed employment is within the scope of the organization's sponsorship, Form I-20 or successor form with employment page completed by DSO certifying eligibility for employment, and a completed Form I-765 or successor form, with the fee required by 8 CFR 106.2(a)(32).
(10)
Practical training.
Practical training may be authorized to an F-1 student who has been lawfully enrolled on a full-time basis, in an approved SEVP-certified college, university, conservatory, or seminary for one full academic year. This paragraph (f)(10) also includes students who, during their course of study, were enrolled in a study abroad program, if the student had spent at least one full academic term enrolled in a full course of study in the United States prior to studying abroad. A student may be authorized 12 months of practical training, and becomes eligible for another 12 months of practical training when they change to a higher educational level. Students in English language training programs are ineligible for practical training. An
eligible student may request employment authorization for practical training in a position that is directly related to their major area of study. There are two types of practical training available:
(i)
Curricular practical training.
An F-1 student may be authorized by the DSO to participate in a curricular practical training program that is an integral part of an established curriculum. Curricular practical training is defined to be alternative work/study, internship, cooperative education or any other type of required internship or practicum that is offered by sponsoring employers through cooperative agreements with the school. Students who have received one year or more of full time curricular practical training are ineligible for post-completion academic training. Exceptions to the one academic year requirement are provided for students enrolled in graduate studies that require immediate participation in curricular practical training. A request for authorization for curricular practical training must be made to the DSO. A student may begin curricular practical training only after receiving their Form I-20 or successor form with the DSO endorsement. To grant authorization for a student to engage in curricular practical training, a DSO will update the student's record in SEVIS as being authorized for curricular practical training that is directly related to the student's major area of study. The DSO will indicate whether the training is full-time or part-time, the employer and location, and the employment start and end date. The DSO must sign, date, and return the Form I-20 or successor form to the student prior to the student's commencement of employment indicating that curricular practical training has been approved.
(ii)
Optional practical training
—(A)
General.
Consistent with the application and approval process in paragraph (f)(11) of this section, a student may apply to USCIS for authorization for temporary employment for optional practical training directly related to the student's major area of study. The student may not begin optional practical training until the date indicated on his or her employment authorization document, Form I-766. A student may be granted authorization to engage in temporary employment for optional practical training:
(
1
) During the student's annual vacation and at other times when school is not in session, if the student is currently enrolled, and is eligible for registration and intends to register for the next term or session;
(
2
) While school is in session, provided that practical training does not exceed 20 hours a week while school is in session; or
(
3
) After completion of the course of study, or, for a student in a bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree program, after completion of all course requirements for the degree (excluding thesis or equivalent). Continued enrollment, for the school's administrative purposes, after all requirements for the degree have been met does not preclude eligibility for optional practical training. A student must complete all practical training within a 14-month period following the completion of study, except that a 24-month extension pursuant to paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) of this section does not need to be completed within such 14-month period.
(B)
Termination of practical training.
Authorization to engage in optional practical training employment is automatically terminated when the student transfers to another school or begins study at another educational level.
(C)
24-month extension of post-completion OPT for a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM) degree.
Consistent with paragraph (f)(11)(i)(C) of this section, a qualified student may apply for an extension of OPT while in a valid period of post-completion OPT authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(3)(i)(B). An extension will be for 24 months for the first qualifying degree for which the student has completed all course requirements (excluding thesis or equivalent), including any qualifying degree as part of a dual degree program, subject to the requirement in paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
3
) of this section that previously obtained degrees must have been conferred. If a student completes all such course requirements for another qualifying degree at a higher degree level than the
first, the student may apply for a second 24-month extension of OPT while in a valid period of post-completion OPT authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(3)(i)(B). In no event may a student be authorized for more than two lifetime STEM OPT extensions. A student who was granted a 17-month OPT extension under the rule issued at 73 FR 18944, whether or not such student requests an additional 7-month period of STEM OPT under 8 CFR 214.16, is considered to have been authorized for one STEM OPT extension, and may be eligible for only one more STEM OPT extension. Any subsequent application for an additional 24-month OPT extension under this paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) must be based on a degree at a higher degree level than the degree that was the basis for the student's first OPT extension. In order to qualify for an extension of post-completion OPT based upon a STEM degree, all of the following requirements must be met.
(
1
)
Accreditation.
The degree that is the basis for the 24-month OPT extension is from a U.S. educational institution accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Department of Education at the time of application.
(
2
)
DHS-approved degree.
The degree that is the basis for the 24-month OPT extension is a bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree in a field determined by the Secretary, or his or her designee, to qualify within a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics field.
(
i
) The term “science, technology, engineering or mathematics field” means a field included in the Department of Education's Classification of Instructional Programs taxonomy within the two-digit series or successor series containing engineering, biological sciences, mathematics, and physical sciences, or a related field. In general, related fields will include fields involving research, innovation, or development of new technologies using engineering, mathematics, computer science, or natural sciences (including physical, biological, and agricultural sciences).
(
ii
) The Secretary, or his or her designee, will maintain the STEM Designated Degree Program List, which will be a complete list of qualifying degree program categories, published on the Student and Exchange Visitor Program Web site at
http://www.ice.gov/sevis
. Changes that are made to the Designated Degree Program List may also be published in a notice in the
Federal Register.
All program categories included on the list must be consistent with the definition set forth in paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
2
)(
i
) of this section.
(
iii
) At the time the DSO recommends a 24-month OPT extension under this paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) in SEVIS, the degree that is the basis for the application for the OPT extension must be contained within a category on the STEM Designated Degree Program List.
(
3
)
Previously obtained STEM degree(s).
The degree that is the basis for the 24-month OPT extension under this paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) may be, but is not required to be, the degree that is the basis for the post-completion OPT period authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(3)(i)(B). If an application for a 24-month OPT extension under this paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) is based upon a degree obtained previous to the degree that provided the basis for the period of post-completion OPT authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(3)(i)(B), that previously obtained degree must have been conferred from a U.S. educational institution that is accredited and SEVP-certified at the time the student's DSO recommends the student for the 24-month OPT extension and must be in a degree program category included on the current STEM Designated Degree Program List at the time of the DSO recommendation. That previously obtained degree must have been conferred within the 10 years preceding the date the DSO recommends the student for the 24-month OPT extension.
(
4
)
Eligible practical training opportunity.
The STEM practical training opportunity that is the basis for the 24-month OPT extension under this paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) must be directly related to the degree that qualifies the student for such extension, which may be the previously obtained degree described in paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
3
) of this section.
(
5
)
Employer qualification.
The student's employer is enrolled in E-Verify, as evidenced by either a valid E-Verify Company Identification number or, if the employer is using an employer agent to create its E-Verify cases, a valid E-Verify Client Company Identification number, and the employer remains a participant in good standing with E-Verify, as determined by USCIS. An employer must also have an employer identification number (EIN) used for tax purposes.
(
6
)
Employer reporting.
A student may not be authorized for employment with an employer pursuant to paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
2
) of this section unless the employer agrees, by signing the Training Plan for STEM OPT Students, Form I-983 or successor form, to report the termination or departure of an OPT student to the DSO at the student's school, if the termination or departure is prior to the end of the authorized period of OPT. Such reporting must be made within five business days of the termination or departure. An employer shall consider a student to have departed when the employer knows the student has left the practical training opportunity, or if the student has not reported for his or her practical training for a period of five consecutive business days without the consent of the employer, whichever occurs earlier.
(
7
)
Training Plan for STEM OPT Students, Form I-983 or successor form.
(
i
) A student must fully complete an individualized Form I-983 or successor form and obtain requisite signatures from an appropriate individual in the employer's organization on the form, consistent with form instructions, before the DSO may recommend a 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
2
) of this section in SEVIS. A student must submit the Form I-983 or successor form, which includes a certification of adherence to the training plan completed by an appropriate individual in the employer's organization who has signatory authority for the employer, to the student's DSO, prior to the new DSO recommendation. A student must present his or her signed and completed Form I-983 or successor form to a DSO at the educational institution of his or her most recent enrollment. A student, while in F-1 student status, may also be required to submit the Form I-983 or successor form to ICE and/or USCIS upon request or in accordance with form instructions.
(
ii
) The training plan described in the Form I-983 or successor form must identify goals for the STEM practical training opportunity, including specific knowledge, skills, or techniques that will be imparted to the student, and explain how those goals will be achieved through the work-based learning opportunity with the employer; describe a performance evaluation process; and describe methods of oversight and supervision. Employers may rely on their otherwise existing training programs or policies to satisfy the requirements relating to performance evaluation and oversight and supervision, as applicable.
(
iii
) The training plan described in the Form I-983 or successor form must explain how the training is directly related to the student's qualifying STEM degree.
(
iv
) If a student initiates a new practical training opportunity with a new employer during his or her 24-month OPT extension, the student must submit, within 10 days of beginning the new practical training opportunity, a new Form I-983 or successor form to the student's DSO, and subsequently obtain a new DSO recommendation.
(
8
)
Duties, hours, and compensation for training.
The terms and conditions of a STEM practical training opportunity during the period of the 24-month OPT extension, including duties, hours, and compensation, must be commensurate with terms and conditions applicable to the employer's similarly situated U.S. workers in the area of employment. A student may not engage in practical training for less than 20 hours per week, excluding time off taken consistent with leave-related policies applicable to the employer's similarly situated U.S. workers in the area of employment. If the employer does not employ and has not recently employed more than two similarly situated U.S. workers in the area of employment, the employer nevertheless remains obligated to attest that the terms and conditions of a STEM practical training
opportunity are commensurate with the terms and conditions of employment for other similarly situated U.S. workers in the area of employment. “Similarly situated U.S. workers” includes U.S. workers performing similar duties subject to similar supervision and with similar educational backgrounds, industry expertise, employment experience, levels of responsibility, and skill sets as the student. The duties, hours, and compensation of such students are “commensurate” with those offered to U.S. workers employed by the employer in the same area of employment when the employer can show that the duties, hours, and compensation are consistent with the range of such terms and conditions the employer has offered or would offer to similarly situated U.S. employees. The student must disclose his or her compensation, including any adjustments, as agreed to with the employer, on the Form I-983 or successor form.
(
9
)
Evaluation requirements and Training Plan modifications.
(
i
) A student may not be authorized for employment with an employer pursuant to paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
2
) of this section unless the student submits a self-evaluation of the student's progress toward the training goals described in the Form I-983 or successor form. All required evaluations must be completed prior to the conclusion of a STEM practical training opportunity, and the student and an appropriate individual in the employer's organization must sign each evaluation to attest to its accuracy. All STEM practical training opportunities require an initial evaluation within 12 months of the approved starting date on the employment authorization document granted pursuant to the student's 24-month OPT extension application, and a concluding evaluation. The student is responsible for ensuring the DSO receives his or her 12-month evaluation and final evaluation no later than 10 days following the conclusion of the reporting period or conclusion of his or her practical training opportunity, respectively.
(
ii
) If any material change to or deviation from the training plan described in the Form I-983 or successor form occurs, the student and employer must sign a modified Form I-983 or successor form reflecting the material change(s) or deviation(s). Material changes and deviations relating to training may include, but are not limited to, any change of Employer Identification Number resulting from a corporate restructuring, any reduction in compensation from the amount previously submitted on the Form I-983 or successor form that is not tied to a reduction in hours worked, any significant decrease in hours per week that a student engages in a STEM training opportunity, and any decrease in hours worked below the minimum hours for the 24-month extension as described in paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
8
) of this section. Material changes and deviations also include any change or deviation that renders an employer attestation inaccurate, or renders inaccurate the information in the Form I-983 or successor form on the nature, purpose, oversight, or assessment of the student's practical training opportunity. The student and employer must ensure that the modified Form I-983 or successor form is submitted to the student's DSO at the earliest available opportunity.
(
iii
) The educational institution whose DSO is responsible for duties associated with the student's latest OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
2
) of this section is responsible for ensuring the Student and Exchange Visitor Program has access to each individualized Form I-983 or successor form and associated student evaluations (electronic or hard copy), including through SEVIS if technologically available, beginning within 30 days after the document is submitted to the DSO and continuing for a period of three years following the completion of each STEM practical training opportunity.
(
10
)
Additional STEM opportunity obligations.
A student may only participate in a STEM practical training opportunity in which the employer attests, including by signing the Form I-983 or successor form, that:
(
i
) The employer has sufficient resources and personnel available and is prepared to provide appropriate training in connection with the specified opportunity at the location(s) specified in the Form I-983 or successor form;
(
ii
) The student on a STEM OPT extension will not replace a full- or part-time, temporary or permanent U.S. worker; and
(
iii
) The student's opportunity assists the student in reaching his or her training goals.
(
11
)
Site visits.
DHS, at its discretion, may conduct a site visit of any employer. The purpose of the site visit is for DHS to ensure that each employer possesses and maintains the ability and resources to provide structured and guided work-based learning experiences consistent with any Form I-983 or successor form completed and signed by the employer. DHS will provide notice to the employer 48 hours in advance of any site visit, except notice may not be provided if the visit is triggered by a complaint or other evidence of noncompliance with the regulations in this paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C).
(D)
Duration of status while on post-completion OPT.
For a student with approved post-completion OPT, the duration of status is defined as the period beginning on the date that the student's application for OPT was properly filed and pending approval, including the authorized period of post-completion OPT, and ending 60 days after the OPT employment authorization expires.
(E)
Periods of unemployment during post-completion OPT.
During post-completion OPT, F-1 status is dependent upon employment. Students may not accrue an aggregate of more than 90 days of unemployment during any post-completion OPT period described in 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(3)(i)(B). Students granted a 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
2
) of this section may not accrue an aggregate of more than 150 days of unemployment during a total OPT period, including any post-completion OPT period described in 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(3)(i)(B) and any subsequent 24-month extension period.
(11)
OPT application and approval process
—(i)
Student responsibilities.
A student must initiate the OPT application process by requesting a recommendation for OPT from his or her DSO. Upon making the recommendation, the DSO will provide the student a signed Form I-20 indicating that recommendation.
(A)
Applications for employment authorization.
The student must properly file an Application for Employment Authorization, Form I-765 or successor form, with USCIS, accompanied by the required fee, and the supporting documents, as described in the form's instructions.
(B)
Applications and filing deadlines for pre-completion OPT and post-completion OPT
—(
1
)
Pre-completion OPT.
For pre-completion OPT, the student may properly file his or her Form I-765 or successor form up to 90 days before being enrolled for one full academic year, provided that the period of employment will not start prior to the completion of the full academic year.
(
2
)
Post-completion OPT.
For post-completion OPT, not including a 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
2
) of this section, the student may properly file his or her Form I-765 or successor form up to 90 days prior to his or her program end date and no later than 60 days after his or her program end date. The student must also file his or her Form I-765 or successor form with USCIS within 30 days of the date the DSO enters the recommendation for OPT into his or her SEVIS record.
(C)
Applications and filing deadlines for 24-month OPT extension.
A student meeting the eligibility requirements for a 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) of this section may request an extension of employment authorization by filing Form I-765 or successor form, with the required fee and supporting documents, up to 90 days prior to the expiration date of the student's current OPT employment authorization. The student seeking such 24-month OPT extension must properly file his or her Form I-765 or successor form with USCIS within 60 days of the date the DSO enters the recommendation for the OPT extension into his or her SEVIS record. If a student timely and properly files an application for such 24-month OPT extension and timely and properly requests a DSO recommendation, including by submitting the fully executed Form I-983 or successor form to his or her DSO, but
the Employment Authorization Document, Form I-766 or successor form, currently in the student's possession expires prior to the decision on the student's application for the OPT extension, the student's Form I-766 or successor form is extended automatically pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(6)(iv).
(D)
Start of OPT employment.
A student may not begin OPT employment prior to the approved start date on his or her Employment Authorization Document, Form I-766 or successor form, except as described in paragraph (f)(11)(i)(C) of this section. A student may not request a start date that is more than 60 days after the student's program end date. Employment authorization will begin on the date requested or the date the employment authorization is adjudicated, whichever is later.
(ii)
Additional DSO responsibilities.
A student must have a recommendation from his or her DSO in order to apply for OPT. When a DSO recommends a student for OPT, the school assumes the added responsibility for maintaining the SEVIS record of that student for the entire period of authorized OPT, consistent with paragraph (f)(12) of this section.
(A) Prior to making a recommendation, the DSO at the educational institution of the student's most recent enrollment must ensure that the student is eligible for the given type and period of OPT and that the student is aware of the student's responsibilities for maintaining status while on OPT. Prior to recommending a 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) of this section, the DSO at the educational institution of the student's most recent enrollment must certify that the student's degree being used to qualify that student for the 24-month OPT extension, as shown in SEVIS or official transcripts, is a bachelor's, master's, or doctorate degree with a degree code that is contained within a category on the current STEM Designated Degree Program List at the time the recommendation is made. A DSO may recommend a student for a 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) of this section only if the Form I-983 or successor form described in paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(7) of this section has been properly completed and executed by the student and prospective employer. A DSO may not recommend a student for an OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) of this section if the practical training would be conducted by an employer who has failed to meet the requirements under paragraphs (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
5
) through (
9
) of this section or has failed to provide the required assurances of paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
10
) of this section.
(B) The DSO must update the student's SEVIS record with the DSO's recommendation for OPT before the student can apply to USCIS for employment authorization. The DSO will indicate in SEVIS whether the OPT employment is to be full-time or part-time, or for a student seeking a recommendation for a 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) of this section whether the OPT employment meets the minimum hours requirements described in paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C)(
8
) of this section, and note in SEVIS the OPT start and end dates.
(C) The DSO must provide the student with a signed, dated Form I-20 or successor form indicating that OPT has been recommended.
(iii)
Decision on application for OPT employment authorization.
USCIS will adjudicate a student's Form I-765 or successor form on the basis of the DSO's recommendation and other eligibility considerations.
(A) If granted, the employment authorization period for post-completion OPT begins on the requested date of commencement or the date the Form I-765 or successor form is approved, whichever is later, and ends at the conclusion of the remaining time period of post-completion OPT eligibility. The employment authorization period for a 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) of this section begins on the day after the expiration of the initial post-completion OPT employment authorization and ends 24 months thereafter, regardless of the date the actual extension is approved.
(B) USCIS will notify the applicant of the decision on the Form I-765 or successor form in writing, and, if the application is denied, of the reason or reasons for the denial.
(C) The applicant may not appeal the decision.
(12)
Reporting while on optional practical training
—(i)
General.
An F-1 student who is granted employment authorization by USCIS to engage in optional practical training is required to report any change of name or address, or interruption of such employment to the DSO for the duration of the optional practical training. A DSO who recommends a student for OPT is responsible for updating the student's record to reflect these reported changes for the duration of the time that training is authorized.
(ii)
Additional reporting obligations for students with an approved 24-month OPT extension.
Students with an approved 24-month OPT extension under paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(C) of this section have additional reporting obligations. Compliance with these reporting requirements is required to maintain F-1 status. The reporting obligations are:
(A) Within 10 days of the change, the student must report to the student's DSO a change of legal name, residential or mailing address, employer name, employer address, and/or loss of employment.
(B) The student must complete a validation report, confirming that the information required by paragraph (f)(12)(ii)(A) of this section has not changed, every six months. The requirement for validation reporting starts on the date the 24-month OPT extension begins and ends when the student's F-1 status expires or the 24-month OPT extension concludes, whichever is first. The validation report is due to the student's DSO within 10 business days of each reporting date.
(13)
Temporary absence from the United States of F-1 student granted employment authorization.
(i) A student returning from a temporary trip abroad with an unexpired off-campus employment authorization on their Form I-20 or successor form may resume employment only if the student is readmitted to attend the same school that granted the employment authorization.
(ii) An F-1 student who has an unexpired EAD issued for post-completion practical training and who is otherwise admissible may return to the United States to resume employment after a period of temporary absence. The EAD must be used in combination with a Form I-20 or successor form endorsed for reentry by the DSO within the last six months.
(14)
Effect of strike or other labor dispute.
Any employment authorization, whether or not part of an academic program, is automatically suspended upon certification by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's designee to the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary's designee, that a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers is in progress in the occupation at the place of employment. As used in this paragraph, “place of employment” means the facility or facilities where a labor dispute exists. The employer is prohibited from transferring F-1 students working at other facilities to the facility where the work stoppage is occurring.
(15)
Spouse and children of F-1 student.
The F-2 spouse and minor children of an F-1 student will each be issued an individual Form I-20 or successor form in accordance with the provisions of § 214.3(k).
(i)
Employment.
The F-2 spouse and children of an F-1 student may not accept employment.
(ii)
Study
—(A)
F-2 post-secondary/vocational study
—(
1
)
Authorized study at SEVP-certified schools.
An F-2 spouse or F-2 child may enroll in less than a full course of study, as defined in paragraphs (f)(6)(i)(A) through (D) and (m)(9)(i) through (iv), in any course of study described in paragraphs (f)(6)(i)(A) through (D) or (m)(9)(i) through (iv) of this section at an SEVP-certified school. Notwithstanding paragraphs (f)(6)(i)(B) and (m)(9)(i) of this section, study at an undergraduate college or university or at a community college or junior college is not a full course of study solely because the F-2 nonimmigrant is engaging in a lesser course load to complete a course of study during the current term. An F-2 spouse or F-2 child enrolled in less than a full course of
study is not eligible to engage in employment pursuant to paragraphs (f)(9) and (10) of this section or pursuant to paragraph (m)(14) of this section.
(
2
)
Full course of study.
Subject to paragraphs (f)(15)(ii)(B) and (f)(18) of this section, an F-2 spouse and child may engage in a full course of study only by applying for and obtaining a change of status to F-1, M-1 or J-1 nonimmigrant status, as appropriate, before beginning a full course of study. An F-2 spouse and child may engage in study that is avocational or recreational in nature, up to and including on a full-time basis.
(B)
F-2 elementary or secondary study.
An F-2 child may engage in full-time study, including any full course of study, in any elementary or secondary school (kindergarten through twelfth grade).
(C) An F-2 spouse and child violates his or her nonimmigrant status by enrolling in any study except as provided in paragraph (f)(15)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(16)
Reinstatement to student status
—(i)
General.
USCIS may consider reinstating a student who makes a request for reinstatement on Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status, accompanied by a properly completed Form I-20 or successor form indicating the DSO's recommendation for reinstatement. USCIS may consider granting the request if the student:
(A) Has not been out of status for more than 5 months at the time of filing the request for reinstatement (or demonstrates that the failure to file within the 5 month period was the result of exceptional circumstances and that the student filed the request for reinstatement as promptly as possible under these exceptional circumstances);
(B) Does not have a record of repeated or willful violations of DHS regulations;
(C) Is currently pursuing, or intending to pursue, a full course of study in the immediate future at the school which issued the Form I-20 or successor form;
(D) Has not engaged in unauthorized employment;
(E) Is not deportable on any ground other than section 237(a)(1)(B) or (C)(i) of the Act; and
(F) Establishes to the satisfaction of USCIS, by a detailed showing, either that:
(
1
) The violation of status resulted from circumstances beyond the student's control. Such circumstances might include serious injury or illness, closure of the institution, a natural disaster, or inadvertence, oversight, or neglect on the part of the DSO, but do not include instances where a pattern of repeated violations or where a willful failure on the part of the student resulted in the need for reinstatement; or
(
2
) The violation relates to a reduction in the student's course load that would have been within a DSO's power to authorize, and that failure to approve reinstatement would result in extreme hardship to the student.
(ii)
Decision.
The adjudicating officer will update SEVIS to reflect USCIS' decision. If USCIS does not reinstate the student, the student may not appeal the decision.
(17)
Current name and address.
A student must inform DHS and the DSO of any legal changes to the student's name or of any change of address, within 10 days of the change, in a manner prescribed by the school. A student can satisfy the requirement in 8 CFR 265.1 of notifying DHS by providing a notice of a change of address within 10 days to the DSO, and the DSO in turn must enter the information in SEVIS within 21 days of notification by the student. Except in the case of a student who cannot receive mail where the student resides, the address provided by the student must be the actual physical location where the student resides rather than a mailing address. In cases where a student provides a mailing address, the school must maintain a record of, and must provide upon request from DHS, the actual physical location where the student resides.
(18)
Special rules for certain border commuter students
—(i)
Applicability.
For purposes of the special rules in this paragraph (f)(18), the term “border commuter student” means a national of Canada or Mexico who is admitted to
the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student to enroll in a full course of study, albeit on a part-time basis, in a certified school located within 75 miles of a United States land border. A border commuter student must maintain actual residence and place of abode in the student's country of nationality, and seek admission to the United States at a land border port-of-entry. These special rules do not apply to a national of Canada or Mexico who is:
(A) Residing in the United States while attending a certified school as an F-1 student, or
(B) Enrolled in a full course of study as defined in paragraph (f)(6) of this section.
(ii)
Full course of study.
The border commuter student must be enrolled in a full course of study at the school that leads to the attainment of a specific educational or professional objective, albeit on a part-time basis. A designated school official at the school may authorize an eligible border commuter student to enroll in a course load below that otherwise required for a full course of study under paragraph (f)(6) of this section, provided that the reduced course load is consistent with the border commuter student's certified course of study.
(iii)
Period of admission.
An F-1 nonimmigrant student who is admitted as a border commuter student under this paragraph (f)(18) will be admitted until a date certain. The DSO is required to specify a completion date on the Form I-20 that reflects the actual semester or term dates for the commuter student's current term of study. A new Form I-20 will be required for each new semester or term that the border commuter student attends at the school. The provisions of paragraphs (f)(5) and (f)(7) of this section, relating to duration of status and extension of stay, are not applicable to a border commuter student.
(iv)
Employment.
A border commuter student may not be authorized to accept any employment in connection with his or her F-1 student status, except for curricular practical training as provided in paragraph (f)(10)(i) of this section or post-completion optional practical training as provided in paragraph (f)(10)(ii)(A)(
3
) of this section.
(19)
Remittance of the fee.
An alien who applies for F-1 or F-3 nonimmigrant status in order to enroll in a program of study at an SEVP-certified educational institution is required to pay the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) fee to DHS, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.13, except as otherwise provided in that section.
(g)
Representatives to international organizations
—(1)
General.
The determination by a consular officer prior to admission and the recognition by the Secretary of State subsequent to admission is evidence of the proper classification of a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(G) of the Act. An alien who has a nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(G) (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of the Act is to be admitted for the duration of the period for which the alien continues to be recognized by the Secretary of State as being entitled to that status. An alien defined in section (101)(a)(15)(G)(v) of the Act is to be admitted for an initial period of not more than three years, and may be granted extensions of temporary stay in increments of not more than two years. In addition, the application for extension of temporary stay must be accompanied by a statement signed by the employing official stating that he or she intends to continue to employ the applicant and describing the type of work the applicant will perform.
(2)
Definition of G-1, G-3, or G-4 dependent.
For purposes of employment in the United States, the term
dependent
of a G-1, G-3, or G-4 principal alien, as used in § 214.2(g), means any of the following immediate members of the family habitually residing in the same household as the principal alien who is an officer or employee assigned to a mission, to an international organization, or is employed by an international organization in the United States:
(i) Spouse;
(ii) Unmarried children under the age of 21;
(iii) Unmarried sons or daughters under the age of 23 who are in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions;
(iv) Unmarried sons or daughters under the age of 25 who are in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions if a formal bilateral employment agreement permitting their employment in the United States was signed prior to November 21, 1988, and such bilateral employment agreement does not specify 23 as the maximum age for employment of such sons and daughters. The Office of Protocol of the Department of State shall maintain a listing of foreign states which the United States has such bilateral employment agreements. The provisions of this paragraph apply only to G-1 and G-3 dependents under certain bilateral agreements and are not applicable to G-4 dependents;
(v) Unmarried sons or daughters who are physically or mentally disabled to the extent that they cannot adequately care for themselves or cannot establish, maintain, or re-establish their own households. The Department of State or the Service may require certification(s) as it deems sufficient to document such mental or physical disability; or
(vi) An immediate family member of a G-1, G-3, or G-4 principal alien described in 22 CFR 41.21(a)(3)(i) to (iv) with G-1, G-3, or G-4 nonimmigrant status who falls within a category of aliens designated by the Department of State as qualifying dependents.
(3)
Applicability of a formal bilateral agreement or an informal de facto arrangement for G-1 and G-3 dependents.
The applicability of a formal bilateral agreement shall be based on the foreign state which employs the principal alien and not on the nationality of the principal alien or dependent. The applicability of an informal de facto arrangement shall be based on the foreign state which employs the principal alien, but under a de facto arrangement the principal alien also must be a national of the foreign state which employs him or her in the United States.
(4)
Income tax, Social Security liability; non-applicability of certain immunities.
Dependents who are granted employment authorization under this section are responsible for payment of all federal, state and local income, employment and related taxes and Social Security contributions on any remuneration received. In addition, immunity from civil or administrative jurisdiction in accordance with Article 37 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations or other international agreements does not apply to these dependents with respect to matters arising out of their employment.
(5)
G-1 and G-3 dependent employment pursuant to formal bilateral employment agreements and informal de facto reciprocal arrangements, and G-4 dependent employment.
(i) The Office of Protocol shall maintain a listing of foreign states which have entered into formal bilateral employment agreements. Dependents of a G-1 or G-3 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may accept or continue in unrestricted employment based on such formal bilateral agreements, if the applicable agreement includes persons in G-1 or G-3 visa status, upon favorable recommendation by the Department of State and issuance of employment authorization documentation by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. The application procedures are set forth in paragraph (g)(6) of this section.
(ii) For purposes of this section, an informal de facto reciprocal arrangement exists when the Department of State determines that a foreign state allows appropriate employment on the local economy for dependents of certain United States officials assigned to duty in that foreign state. The Office of Protocol shall maintain a listing of countries with which such reciprocity exists. Dependents of a G-1 or G-3 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may be authorized to accept or continue in employment based upon informal de facto arrangements, and dependents of a G-4 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may be authorized to accept or continue in employment upon favorable recommendation by the Department of State and issuance of employment authorization by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. Additionally, the procedures set forth in paragraph (g)(6) of this section must be complied with, and the following conditions must be met:
(A) Both the principal alien and the dependent desiring employment are maintaining G-1, G-3, or G-4 status as appropriate;
(B) The principal's assignment in the United States is expected to last more than six months;
(C) Employment of a similar nature for dependents of United States Government officials assigned to official duty in the foreign state employing the principal alien is not prohibited by that foreign government. The provisions of this paragraph apply only to G-1 and G-3 dependents;
(D) The proposed employment is not in an occupation listed in the Department of Labor Schedule B (20 CFR part 656), or otherwise determined by the Department of Labor to be one for which there is an oversupply of qualified U.S. workers in the area of proposed employment. This Schedule B restriction does not apply to a dependent son or daughter who is a full-time student if the employment is part-time, consisting of not more than 20 hours per week, and/or if it is temporary employment of not more than 12 weeks during school holiday periods; and
(E) The proposed employment is not contrary to the interest of the United States. Employment contrary to the interest of the United States includes, but is not limited to, the employment of G-1, G-3, or G-4 dependents: who have criminal records; who have violated United States immigration laws or regulations, or visa laws or regulations; who have worked illegally in the United States; and/or who cannot establish that they have paid taxes and social security on income from current or previous United States employment. Additionally, the Department of State may determine a G-4 dependent's employment is contrary to the interest of the United States when the principal alien's country of nationality has one or more components of an international organization or international organizations within its borders and does not allow the employment of dependents of United States citizens employed by such component(s) or organization(s).
(6)
Application procedures.
The following procedures are applicable to G-1 and G-3 dependent employment applications under bilateral agreements and de facto arrangements, as well as to G-4 dependent employment applications:
(i) The dependent must submit a completed Form I-566 to the Department of State through the office, mission, or organization which employs his or her principal alien. If the principal is assigned to or employed by the United Nations, the Form I-566 must be submitted to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. All other applications must be submitted to the Office of Protocol of the Department of State. A dependent applying under paragraph (g)(2) (iii) or (iv) of this section must submit a certified statement from the post-secondary educational institution confirming that he or she is pursuing studies on a full-time basis. A dependent applying under paragraph (g)(2)(v) of this section must submit medical certification regarding his or her condition. The certification should identify the dependent and the certifying physician and give the physician's phone number; identify the condition, describe the symptoms and provide a prognosis; certify that the dependent is unable to establish, re-establish, and maintain a home or his or her own. Additionally, a G-1 or G-3 dependent applying under the terms of a de facto arrangement or a G-4 dependent must attach a statement from the prospective employer which includes the dependent's name; a description of the position offered and the duties to be performed; the salary offered; and verification that the dependent possesses the qualifications for the position.
(ii) The Department of State reviews and verifies the information provided, makes its determination, and endorses the Form I-566.
(iii) If the Department of State's endorsement is favorable, the dependent may apply to USCIS for employment authorization. When applying to USCIS for employment authorization, the dependent must present his or her Form I-566 with a favorable endorsement from the Department of State and any additional documentation as may be required by the Secretary.
(7)
Period of time for which employment may be authorized.
If approved, an application to accept or continue employment under this section shall be granted in increments of not more than three years each.
(8)
No appeal.
There shall be no appeal from a denial of permission to accept or continue employment under this section.
(9)
Dependents or family members of principal aliens classified G-2 or G-5.
A dependent or family member of a principal alien classified G-2 or G-5 may not be employed in the United States under this section.
(10)
Unauthorized employment.
An alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(G) of the Act who is not a principal alien and who engages in employment outside the scope of, or in a manner contrary to this section, may be considered in violation of section 241(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act. An alien who is classified under section 101(a)(15)(G) of the Act who is a principal alien and who engages in employment outside the scope of his/her official position may be considered in violation of section 241(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(11)
Special provision.
As of February 16, 1990 no new employment authorization will be granted and no pre-existing employment authorization will be extended for a G-1 dependent absent an appropriate bilateral agreement or de facto arrangement. However, a G-1 dependent who has been granted employment authorization by the Department of State prior to the effective date of this section and who meets the definition of dependent under § 214.2(g)(2) (i), (ii), (iii) or (v) of this part but is not covered by the terms of a bilateral agreement or de facto arrangement may be allowed to continue in employment until whichever of the following occurs first:
(i) The employment authorization by the Department of State expires; or
(ii) He or she no longer qualifies as a dependent as that term is defined in this section; or
(iii) March 19, 1990.
(h)
Temporary employees.
Table 3 to Paragraph (
h
)—Paragraph Contents
(1) Admission of temporary employees
(2) Petitions
(3) Petition for registered nurse (H-1C)
(4) Petition for alien to perform services in a specialty occupation, services relating to a DOD cooperative research and development project or coproduction project, or services of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling (H-1B)
(5) Petition for alien to perform agricultural labor or services of a temporary or seasonal nature (H-2A)
(6) Petition for alien to perform temporary nonagricultural services or labor (H-2B)
(7) Petition for alien trainee or participant in a special education exchange visitor program (H-3)
(8) Numerical limits
(9) Approval and validity of petition
(10) Denial of petition
(11) Revocation of approval of petition
(12) Appeal of a denial or a revocation of a petition
(13) Admission
(14) Extension of visa petition validity
(15) Extension of stay
(16) Effect of approval of a permanent labor certification or filing of a preference petition on H classification
(17) Effect of a strike
(18) Use of approval notice, Form I-797
(19) Additional fee for filing certain H-1B petitions
(20) Retaliatory action claims
(21) Change of employers during COVID-19 National Emergency (August 19, 2020 through December 17, 2020)
(22) Change of employers during COVID-19 National Emergency (December 18, 2020 through June 16, 2021)
(23) Change of employers and extensions beyond 3 years during COVID-19 National Emergency for H-2B aliens essential to the U.S. food supply chain
(24) Severability
(25) [Reserved]
(26) Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers (May 25, 2021 through November 22, 2021)
(27) Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers (January 28, 2022 through July 27, 2022)
(28) Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers (July 28, 2022 through January 24, 2023)
(29) Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers (January 25, 2023 through January 24, 2024).
(30) [Reserved]
(31) Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers (January 25, 2024 through January 24, 2025).
(32) Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers (January 25, 2025 through January 24, 2026).
(1)
Admission of temporary employees
—(i)
General.
Under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act, an alien may be authorized to come to the United States temporarily to perform services or labor for, or to receive training from, an employer, if petitioned for by that employer. Under this nonimmigrant category, the alien may be classified as follows: under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(c) of the Act as a registered nurse; under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Act as an alien who is coming to perform services in a specialty occupation, services relating to a Department of Defense (DOD) cooperative research and development project or coproduction project, or services as a fashion model who is of distinguished merit and ability; under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a) of the Act as an alien who is coming to perform agricultural labor or services of a temporary or seasonal nature; under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of the Act as an alien coming to perform other temporary services or labor; or under section 101(a)(15)(H)(iii) of the Act as an alien who is coming as a trainee or as a participant in a special education exchange visitor program. These classifications are called H-1C, H-1B, H-2A, H-2B, and H-3, respectively. The employer must file a petition with the Service for review of the services or training and for determination of the alien's eligibility for classification as a temporary employee or trainee, before the alien may apply for a visa or seek admission to the United States. This paragraph sets forth the standards and procedures applicable to these classifications.
(ii)
Description of classifications.
(A) An H-1C classification applies to an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States to perform services as a registered nurse, meets the requirements of section 212(m)(1) of the Act, and will perform services at a facility (as defined at section 212(m)(6) of the Act) for which the Secretary of Labor has determined and certified to the Attorney General that an unexpired attestation is on file and in effect under section 212(m)(2) of the Act. This classification will expire 4 years from June 11, 2001.
(B) An H-1B classification applies to an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States:
(
1
) To perform services in a specialty occupation (except agricultural workers, and aliens described in section 101(a)(15) (O) and (P) of the Act) described in section 214(i)(1) of the Act, that meets the requirements of section 214(i)(2) of the Act, and for whom the Secretary of Labor has determined and certified to the Attorney General that the prospective employer has filed a labor condition application under section 212(n)(1) of the Act;
(
2
) To perform services of an exceptional nature requiring exceptional merit and ability relating to a cooperative research and development project or a coproduction project provided for under a Government-to-Government agreement administered by the Secretary of Defense;
(
3
) To perform services as a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability and for whom the Secretary of Labor has determined and certified to the Attorney General that the prospective employer has filed a labor condition application under section 212(n)(1) of the Act.
(C) An H-2A classification applies to an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States to perform agricultural work of a temporary or seasonal nature.
(D) An H-2B classification applies to an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States to perform nonagricultural work of a temporary or seasonal nature, if there are not sufficient workers who are able, willing, qualified, and available at the time of application for a visa and admission to the United States and at the place where the alien is to perform such services or labor. This classification does
not apply to graduates of medical schools coming to the United States to perform services as members of the medical profession. The temporary or permanent nature of the services or labor described on the approved temporary labor certification are subject to review by USCIS. This classification requires a temporary labor certification issued by the Secretary of Labor or the Governor of Guam prior to the filing of a petition with USCIS.
(E) An H-3 classification applies to an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States:
(
1
) As a trainee, other than to receive graduate medical education or training, or training provided primarily at or by an academic or vocational institution, or
(
2
) As a participant in a special education exchange visitor program which provides for practical training and experience in the education of children with physical, mental, or emotional disabilities.
(2)
Petitions
—(i)
Filing of petitions
—(A)
General.
A United States employer seeking to classify an alien as an H-1B, H-2A, H-2B, or H-3 temporary employee must file a petition on the form prescribed by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions.
(B)
Service or training in more than one location.
A petition that requires services to be performed or training to be received in more than one location must include an itinerary with the dates and locations of the services or training and must be filed with USCIS as provided in the form instructions. The address that the petitioner specifies as its location on the Form I-129 shall be where the petitioner is located for purposes of this paragraph.
(C)
Services or training for more than one employer.
If the beneficiary will perform nonagricultural services for, or receive training from, more than one employer, each employer must file a separate petition with USCIS as provided in the form instructions.
(D)
Change of employers.
If the alien is in the United States and seeks to change employers, the prospective new employer must file a petition on the form prescribed by USCIS requesting classification and an extension of the alien's stay in the United States. If the new petition is approved, the extension of stay may be granted for the validity of the approved petition. The validity of the petition and the alien's extension of stay must conform to the limits on the alien's temporary stay that are prescribed in paragraph (h)(13) of this section. Except as provided by 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(21) or section 214(n) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1184(n), the alien is not authorized to begin the employment with the new petitioner until the petition is approved. An H-1C nonimmigrant alien may not change employers.
(E)
Amended or new petition.
The petitioner shall file an amended or new petition, with fee, with the Service Center where the original petition was filed to reflect any material changes in the terms and conditions of employment or training or the alien's eligibility as specified in the original approved petition. An amended or new H-1C, H-1B, H-2A, or H-2B petition must be accompanied by a current or new Department of Labor determination. In the case of an H-1B petition, this requirement includes a new labor condition application.
(F)
Agents as petitioners.
A United States agent may file a petition in cases involving workers who are traditionally self-employed or workers who use agents to arrange short-term employment on their behalf with numerous employers, and in cases where a foreign employer authorizes the agent to act on its behalf. A United States agent may be: the actual employer of the beneficiary, the representative of both the employer and the beneficiary, or, a person or entity authorized by the employer to act for, or in place of, the employer as it agent. A petition filed by a United States agent is subject to the following conditions;
(
1
) An agent performing the function of an employer must guarantee the wages and other terms and conditions of employment by contractual agreement with the beneficiary or beneficiaries of the petition. The agent/employer must also provide an itinerary of definite employment and information on any other services planned for the period of time requested.
(
2
) A person or company in business as an agent may file the H petition involving multiple employers as the representative of both the employers and the beneficiary or beneficiaries if the supporting documentation includes a complete itinerary of services or engagements. The itinerary shall specify the dates of each service or engagement, the names and addresses of the actual employers, and the names and addresses of the establishment, venues, or locations where the services will be performed. In questionable cases, a contract between the employers and the beneficiary or beneficiaries may be required. The burden is on the agent to explain the terms and conditions of the employment and to provide any required documentation.
(
3
) A foreign employer who, through a United States agent, files a petition for an H nonimmigrant alien is responsible for complying with all of the employer sanctions provisions of section 274A of the Act and 8 CFR part 274a.
(G)
Multiple H-1B petitions.
An employer may not file, in the same fiscal year, more than one H-1B petition on behalf of the same alien if the alien is subject to the numerical limitations of section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act or is exempt from those limitations under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act. If an H-1B petition is denied, on a basis other than fraud or misrepresentation, the employer may file a subsequent H-1B petition on behalf of the same alien in the same fiscal year, provided that the numerical limitation has not been reached or if the filing qualifies as exempt from the numerical limitation. Otherwise, filing more than one H-1B petition by an employer on behalf of the same alien in the same fiscal year will result in the denial or revocation of all such petitions. If USCIS believes that related entities (such as a parent company, subsidiary, or affiliate) may not have a legitimate business need to file more than one H-1B petition on behalf of the same alien subject to the numerical limitations of section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act or otherwise eligible for an exemption under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act, USCIS may issue a request for additional evidence or notice of intent to deny, or notice of intent to revoke each petition. If any of the related entities fail to demonstrate a legitimate business need to file an H-1B petition on behalf of the same alien, all petitions filed on that alien's behalf by the related entities will be denied or revoked.
(H)
H-1B portability.
An eligible H-1B nonimmigrant is authorized to start concurrent or new employment under section 214(n) of the Act upon the filing, in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(a), of a nonfrivolous H-1B petition on behalf of such alien, or as of the requested start date, whichever is later.
(
1
)
Eligible H-1B nonimmigrant.
For H-1B portability purposes, an eligible H-1B nonimmigrant is defined as an alien:
(
i
) Who has been lawfully admitted into the United States in, or otherwise provided, H-1B nonimmigrant status;
(
ii
) On whose behalf a nonfrivolous H-1B petition for new employment has been filed, including a petition for new employment with the same employer, with a request to amend or extend the H-1B nonimmigrant's stay, before the H-1B nonimmigrant's period of stay authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security expires; and
(
iii
) Who has not been employed without authorization in the United States from the time of last admission through the filing of the petition for new employment.
(
2
)
Length of employment.
Employment authorized under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(H) of this section automatically ceases upon the adjudication of the H-1B petition described in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(H)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section.
(
3
)
Successive H-1B portability petitions.
(
i
) An alien maintaining authorization for employment under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(H) of this section, whose status, as indicated on the Arrival-Departure Record (Form I-94), has expired, shall be considered to be in a period of stay authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security for purposes of paragraph (h)(2)(i)(H)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section. If otherwise eligible under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(H) of this section, such alien may begin working in a subsequent position upon the filing of another H-1B petition or from the requested start date, whichever is later, notwithstanding that the previous H-1B petition upon which employment is authorized under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(H)
of this section remains pending and regardless of whether the validity period of an approved H-1B petition filed on the alien's behalf expired during such pendency.
(
ii
) A request to amend the petition or for an extension of stay in any successive H-1B portability petition cannot be approved if a request to amend the petition or for an extension of stay in any preceding H-1B portability petition in the succession is denied, unless the beneficiary's previously approved period of H-1B status remains valid.
(
iii
) Denial of a successive portability petition does not affect the ability of the H-1B beneficiary to continue or resume working in accordance with the terms of an H-1B petition previously approved on behalf of the beneficiary if that petition approval remains valid and the beneficiary has maintained H-1B status or been in a period of authorized stay and has not been employed in the United States without authorization.
(I)
Time of filing.
A petition filed under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act may not be filed earlier than 6 months before the date of actual need for the beneficiary's services or training.
(ii)
Multiple beneficiaries.
Up to 25 named beneficiaries may be included in an H-1C, H-2A, H-2B, or H-3 petition if the beneficiaries will be performing the same service, or receiving the same training, for the same period, and in the same location. If more than 25 named beneficiaries are being petitioned for, an additional petition is required. Petitions for H-2A and H-2B workers from countries not designated in accordance with paragraph (h)(6)(i)(E) of this section must be filed separately.
(iii)
Naming beneficiaries.
H-1B, H-1C, and H-3 petitions must include the name of each beneficiary. Except as provided in this paragraph (h), all H-2A and H-2B petitions must include the name of each beneficiary who is currently in the United States, but need not name any beneficiary who is not currently in the United States. Unnamed beneficiaries must be shown on the petition by total number. USCIS may require the petitioner to name H-2B beneficiaries where the name is needed to establish eligibility for H-2B nonimmigrant status. If all of the beneficiaries covered by an H-2A or H-2B temporary labor certification have not been identified at the time a petition is filed, multiple petitions for subsequent beneficiaries may be filed at different times but must include a copy of the same temporary labor certification. Each petition must reference all previously filed petitions associated with that temporary labor certification. All H-2A and H-2B petitions on behalf of workers who are not from a country that has been designated as a participating country in accordance with paragraphs (h)(5)(i)(F)(
1
) or (h)(6)(i)(E)(
1
) of this section must name all the workers in the petition who fall within these categories. All H-2A and H-2B petitions must state the nationality of all beneficiaries, whether or not named, even if there are beneficiaries from more than one country.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v)
H-2A Petitions.
Special criteria for admission, extension, and maintenance of status apply to H-2A petitions and are specified in paragraph (h)(5) of this section. The other provisions of § 214.2(h) apply to H-2A only to the extent that they do not conflict with the special agricultural provisions in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
(3)
Petition for registered nurse (H-1C)
—(i)
General.
(A) For purposes of H-1C classification, the term “registered nurse” means a person who is or will be authorized by a State Board of Nursing to engage in registered nurse practice in a state or U.S. territory or possession, and who is or will be practicing at a facility which provides health care services.
(B) A United States employer which provides health care services is referred to as a
facility.
A
facility
may file an H-1C petition for an alien nurse to perform the services of a registered nurse, if the
facility
meets the eligibility standards of 20 CFR 655.1111 and the other requirements of the Department of Labor's regulations in 20 CFR part 655, subpart L.
(C) The position must involve nursing practice and require licensure or other authorization to practice as a registered nurse from the State Board of Nursing in the state of intended employment.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii)
Beneficiary requirements.
An H-1C petition for a nurse shall be accompanied by evidence that the nurse:
(A) Has obtained a full and unrestricted license to practice nursing in the country where the alien obtained nursing education, or has received nursing education in the United States;
(B) Has passed the examination given by the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools (CGFNS), or has obtained a full and unrestricted (permanent) license to practice as a registered nurse in the state of intended employment, or has obtained a full and unrestricted (permanent) license in any state or territory of the United States and received temporary authorization to practice as a registered nurse in the state of intended employment; and
(C) Is fully qualified and eligible under the laws (including such temporary or interim licensing requirements which authorize the nurse to be employed) governing the place of intended employment to practice as a registered nurse immediately upon admission to the United States, and is authorized under such laws to be employed by the employer. For purposes of this paragraph, the temporary or interim licensing may be obtained immediately after the alien enters the United States.
(iv)
Petitioner requirements.
The petitioning facility shall submit the following with an H-1C petition:
(A) A current copy of the DOL's notice of acceptance of the filing of its attestation on Form ETA 9081;
(B) A statement describing any limitations which the laws of the state or jurisdiction of intended employment place on the alien's services; and
(C) Evidence that the alien(s) named on the petition meets the definition of a registered nurse as defined at 8 CFR 214.2(h)(3)(i)(A), and satisfies the requirements contained in section 212(m)(1) of the Act.
(v)
Licensure requirements.
(A) A nurse who is granted H-1C classification based on passage of the CGFNS examination must, upon admission to the United States, be able to obtain temporary licensure or other temporary authorization to practice as a registered nurse from the State Board of Nursing in the state of intended employment.
(B) An alien who was admitted as an H-1C nonimmigrant on the basis of a temporary license or authorization to practice as a registered nurse must comply with the licensing requirements for registered nurses in the state of intended employment. An alien admitted as an H-1C nonimmigrant is required to obtain a full and unrestricted license if required by the state of intended employment. The Service must be notified pursuant to § 214.2(h)(11) when an H-1C nurse is no longer licensed as a registered nurse in the state of intended employment.
(C) A nurse shall automatically lose his or her eligibility for H-1C classification if he or she is no longer performing the duties of a registered professional nurse. Such a nurse is not authorized to remain in employment unless he or she otherwise receives authorization from the Service.
(vi)
Other requirements.
(A) If the Secretary of Labor notifies the Service that a facility which employs H-1C nonimmigrant nurses has failed to meet a condition in its attestation, or that there was a misrepresentation of a material fact in the attestation, the Service shall not approve petitions for H-1C nonimmigrant nurses to be employed by the facility for a period of at least 1 year from the date of receipt of such notice. The Secretary of Labor shall make a recommendation with respect to the length of debarment. If the Secretary of Labor recommends a longer period of debarment, the Service will give considerable weight to that recommendation.
(B) If the facility's attestation expires, or is suspended or invalidated by DOL, the Service will not suspend or revoke the facility's approved petitions for nurses, if the facility has agreed to comply with the terms of the attestation under which the nurses were admitted or subsequent attestations accepted by DOL for the duration of the nurses' authorized stay.
(4)
Petition for alien to perform services in a specialty occupation, services relating to a DOD cooperative research and development project or coproduction project, or services of distinguished merit and ability
in the field of fashion modeling (H-1B)
—(i)(A)
Types of H-1B classification.
An H-1B classification may be granted to an alien who:
(
1
) Will perform services in a specialty occupation which requires theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge and attainment of a baccalaureate or higher degree or its equivalent as a minimum requirement for entry into the occupation in the United States, and who is qualified to perform services in the specialty occupation because he or she has attained a baccalaureate or higher degree or its equivalent in the specialty occupation;
(
2
) Based on reciprocity, will perform services of an exceptional nature requiring exceptional merit and ability relating to a DOD cooperative research and development project or a coproduction project provided for under a Government-to-Government agreement administered by the Secretary of Defense;
(
3
) Will perform services in the field of fashion modeling and who is of distinguished merit and ability.
(B)
General requirements for petitions involving a specialty occupation.
(
1
) Before filing a petition for H-1B classification in a specialty occupation, the petitioner shall obtain a certification from the Department of Labor that it has filed a labor condition application in the occupational specialty in which the alien(s) will be employed.
(
2
) Certification by the Department of Labor of a labor condition application in an occupational classification does not constitute a determination by that agency that the occupation in question is a specialty occupation. The director shall determine if the application involves a specialty occupation as defined in section 214(i)(1) of the Act. The director shall also determine whether the particular alien for whom H-1B classification is sought qualifies to perform services in the specialty occupation as prescribed in section 214(i)(2) of the Act.
(
3
) If all of the beneficiaries covered by an H-1B labor condition application have not been identified at the time a petition is filed, petitions for newly identified beneficiaries may be filed at any time during the validity of the labor condition application using photocopies of the same application. Each petition must refer by file number to all previously approved petitions for that labor condition application.
(
4
) When petitions have been approved for the total number of workers specified in the labor condition application, substitution of aliens against previously approved openings shall not be made. A new labor condition application shall be required.
(
5
) If the Secretary of Labor notifies the Service that the petitioning employer has failed to meet a condition of paragraph (B) of section 212(n)(1) of the Act, has substantially failed to meet a condition of paragraphs (C) or (D) of section 212(n)(1) of the Act, has willfully failed to meet a condition of paragraph (A) of section 212(n)(1) of the Act, or has misrepresented any material fact in the application, the Service shall not approve petitions filed with respect to that employer under section 204 or 214(c) of the Act for a period of at least one year from the date of receipt of such notice.
(
6
) If the employer's labor condition application is suspended or invalidated by the Department of Labor, the Service will not suspend or revoke the employer's approved petitions for aliens already employed in specialty occupations if the employer has certified to the Department of Labor that it will comply with the terms of the labor condition application for the duration of the authorized stay of aliens it employs.
(C)
General requirements for petitions involving an alien of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling.
H-1B classification may be granted to an alien who is of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling. An alien of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling is one who is prominent in the field of fashion modeling. The alien must also be coming to the United States to perform services which require a fashion model of prominence.
(ii)
Definitions.
Prominence
means a high level of achievement in the field of fashion modeling evidenced by a degree of skill and recognition substantially above
that ordinarily encountered to the extent that a person described as prominent is renowned, leading, or well-known in the field of fashion modeling.
Recognized authority
means a person or an organization with expertise in a particular field, special skills or knowledge in that field, and the expertise to render the type of opinion requested. Such an opinion must state:
(
1
) The writer's qualifications as an expert;
(
2
) The writer's experience giving such opinions, citing specific instances where past opinions have been accepted as authoritative and by whom;
(
3
) How the conclusions were reached; and
(
4
) The basis for the conclusions supported by copies or citations of any research material used.
Specialty occupation
means an occupation which requires theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge in fields of human endeavor including, but not limited to, architecture, engineering, mathematics, physical sciences, social sciences, medicine and health, education, business specialties, accounting, law, theology, and the arts, and which requires the attainment of a bachelor's degree or higher in a specific specialty, or its equivalent, as a minimum for entry into the occupation in the United States.
United States employer
means a person, firm, corporation, contractor, or other association or organization in the United States which:
(
1
) Engages a person to work within the United States;
(
2
) Has an employer-employee relationship with respect to employees under this part; as indicated by the fact that it may hire, pay, fire, supervise, or otherwise control the work of any such employee; and
(
3
) Has an Internal Revenue Service Tax identification number.
(iii)
Criteria for H-1B petitions involving a specialty occupation
—(A)
Standards for specialty occupation position.
To qualify as a specialty occupation, the position must meet one of the following criteria:
(
1
) A baccalaureate or higher degree or its equivalent is normally the minimum requirement for entry into the particular position;
(
2
) The degree requirement is common to the industry in parallel positions among similar organizations or, in the alternative, an employer may show that its particular position is so complex or unique that it can be performed only by an individual with a degree;
(
3
) The employer normally requires a degree or its equivalent for the position; or
(
4
) The nature of the specific duties are so specialized and complex that knowledge required to perform the duties is usually associated with the attainment of a baccalaureate or higher degree.
(B)
Petitioner requirements.
The petitioner shall submit the following with an H-1B petition involving a specialty occupation:
(
1
) A certification from the Secretary of Labor that the petitioner has filed a labor condition application with the Secretary,
(
2
) A statement that it will comply with the terms of the labor condition application for the duration of the alien's authorized period of stay,
(
3
) Evidence that the alien qualifies to perform services in the specialty occupation as described in paragraph (h)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, and
(C)
Beneficiary qualifications.
To qualify to perform services in a specialty occupation, the alien must meet one of the following criteria:
(
1
) Hold a United States baccalaureate or higher degree required by the specialty occupation from an accredited college or university;
(
2
) Hold a foreign degree determined to be equivalent to a United States baccalaureate or higher degree required by the specialty occupation from an accredited college or university;
(
3
) Hold an unrestricted State license, registration or certification which authorizes him or her to fully practice the specialty occupation and be immediately engaged in that specialty in the state of intended employment; or
(
4
) Have education, specialized training, and/or progressively responsible
experience that is equivalent to completion of a United States baccalaureate or higher degree in the specialty occupation, and have recognition of expertise in the specialty through progressively responsible positions directly related to the specialty.
(D)
Equivalence to completion of a college degree.
For purposes of paragraph (h)(4)(iii)(C)(
4
) of this section, equivalence to completion of a United States baccalaureate or higher degree shall mean achievement of a level of knowledge, competence, and practice in the specialty occupation that has been determined to be equal to that of an individual who has a baccalaureate or higher degree in the specialty and shall be determined by one or more of the following:
(
1
) An evaluation from an official who has authority to grant college-level credit for training and/or experience in the specialty at an accredited college or university which has a program for granting such credit based on an individual's training and/or work experience;
(
2
) The results of recognized college-level equivalency examinations or special credit programs, such as the College Level Examination Program (CLEP), or Program on Noncollegiate Sponsored Instruction (PONSI);
(
3
) An evaluation of education by a reliable credentials evaluation service which specializes in evaluating foreign educational credentials;
(
4
) Evidence of certification or registration from a nationally-recognized professional association or society for the specialty that is known to grant certification or registration to persons in the occupational specialty who have achieved a certain level of competence in the specialty;
(
5
) A determination by the Service that the equivalent of the degree required by the specialty occupation has been acquired through a combination of education, specialized training, and/or work experience in areas related to the specialty and that the alien has achieved recognition of expertise in the specialty occupation as a result of such training and experience. For purposes of determining equivalency to a baccalaureate degree in the specialty, three years of specialized training and/or work experience must be demonstrated for each year of college-level training the alien lacks. For equivalence to an advanced (or Masters) degree, the alien must have a baccalaureate degree followed by at least five years of experience in the specialty. If required by a specialty, the alien must hold a Doctorate degree or its foreign equivalent. It must be clearly demonstrated that the alien's training and/or work experience included the theoretical and practical application of specialized knowledge required by the specialty occupation; that the alien's experience was gained while working with peers, supervisors, or subordinates who have a degree or its equivalent in the specialty occupation; and that the alien has recognition of expertise in the specialty evidenced by at least one type of documentation such as:
(
i
) Recognition of expertise in the specialty occupation by at least two recognized authorities in the same specialty occupation;
(
ii
) Membership in a recognized foreign or United States association or society in the specialty occupation;
(
iii
) Published material by or about the alien in professional publications, trade journals, books, or major newspapers;
(
iv
) Licensure or registration to practice the specialty occupation in a foreign country; or
(
v
) Achievements which a recognized authority has determined to be significant contributions to the field of the specialty occupation.
(E)
Liability for transportation costs.
The employer will be liable for the reasonable costs of return transportation of the alien abroad if the alien is dismissed from employment by the employer before the end of the period of authorized admission pursuant to section 214(c)(5) of the Act. If the beneficiary voluntarily terminates his or her employment prior to the expiration of the validity of the petition, the alien has not been dismissed. If the beneficiary believes that the employer has not complied with this provision, the beneficiary shall advise the Service Center which adjudicated the petition
in writing. The complaint will be retained in the file relating to the petition. Within the context of this paragraph, the term “abroad” refers to the alien's last place of foreign residence. This provision applies to any employer whose offer of employment became the basis for an alien obtaining or continuing H-1B status.
(iv)
General documentary requirements for H-1B classification in a specialty occupation.
An H-1B petition involving a specialty occupation shall be accompanied by:
(A) Documentation, certifications, affidavits, declarations, degrees, diplomas, writings, reviews, or any other required evidence sufficient to establish that the beneficiary is qualified to perform services in a specialty occupation as described in paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section and that the services the beneficiary is to perform are in a specialty occupation. The evidence shall conform to the following:
(
1
) School records, diplomas, degrees, affidavits, declarations, contracts, and similar documentation submitted must reflect periods of attendance, courses of study, and similar pertinent data, be executed by the person in charge of the records of the educational or other institution, firm, or establishment where education or training was acquired.
(
2
) Affidavits or declarations made under penalty of perjury submitted by present or former employers or recognized authorities certifying as to the recognition and expertise of the beneficiary shall specifically describe the beneficiary's recognition and ability in factual terms and must set forth the expertise of the affiant and the manner in which the affiant acquired such information.
(B) Copies of any written contracts between the petitioner and beneficiary, or a summary of the terms of the oral agreement under which the beneficiary will be employed, if there is no written contract.
(v)
Licensure for H classification
—(A)
General.
If an occupation requires a state or local license for an individual to fully perform the duties of the occupation, an alien (except an H-1C nurse) seeking H classification in that occupation must have that license prior to approval of the petition to be found qualified to enter the United States and immediately engage in employment in the occupation.
(B)
Temporary licensure.
If a temporary license is available and the alien is allowed to perform the duties of the occupation without a permanent license, the director shall examine the nature of the duties, the level at which the duties are performed, the degree of supervision received, and any limitations placed on the alien. If an analysis of the facts demonstrates that the alien under supervision is authorized to fully perform the duties of the occupation, H classification may be granted.
(C)
Duties without licensure.
(
1
) In certain occupations which generally require licensure, a state may allow an individual without licensure to fully practice the occupation under the supervision of licensed senior or supervisory personnel in that occupation. In such cases, USCIS shall examine the nature of the duties and the level at which they are performed, as well as evidence provided by the petitioner as to the identity, physical location, and credentials of the individual(s) who will supervise the alien, and evidence that the petitioner is complying with state requirements. If the facts demonstrate that the alien under supervision will fully perform the duties of the occupation, H classification may be granted.
(
2
) An H-1B petition filed on behalf of an alien who does not have a valid state or local license, where a license is otherwise required to fully perform the duties in that occupation, may be approved for a period of up to 1 year if:
(
i
) The license would otherwise be issued provided the alien was in possession of a valid Social Security number, was authorized for employment in the United States, or met a similar technical requirement; and
(
ii
) The petitioner demonstrates, through evidence from the state or local licensing authority, that the only obstacle to the issuance of a license to the beneficiary is the lack of a Social Security number, a lack of employment authorization in the United States, or a failure to meet a similar technical requirement that precludes the issuance of the license to an individual who is not yet in H-1B status.
The petitioner must demonstrate that the alien is fully qualified to receive the state or local license in all other respects, meaning that all educational, training, experience, and other substantive requirements have been met. The alien must have filed an application for the license in accordance with applicable state and local rules and procedures, provided that state or local rules or procedures do not prohibit the alien from filing the license application without provision of a Social Security number or proof of employment authorization or without meeting a similar technical requirement.
(
3
) An H-1B petition filed on behalf of an alien who has been previously accorded H-1B classification under paragraph (h)(4)(v)(C)(
2
) of this section may not be approved unless the petitioner demonstrates that the alien has obtained the required license, is seeking to employ the alien in a position requiring a different license, or the alien will be employed in that occupation in a different location which does not require a state or local license to fully perform the duties of the occupation.
(D)
H-1C nurses.
For purposes of licensure, H-1C nurses must provide the evidence required in paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section.
(E)
Limitation on approval of petition.
Where licensure is required in any occupation, including registered nursing, the H petition may only be approved for a period of one year or for the period that the temporary license is valid, whichever is longer, unless the alien already has a permanent license to practice the occupation. An alien who is accorded H classification in an occupation which requires licensure may not be granted an extension of stay or accorded a new H classification after the one year unless he or she has obtained a permanent license in the state of intended employment or continues to hold a temporary license valid in the same state for the period of the requested extension.
(vi)
Criteria and documentary requirements for H-1B petitions involving DOD cooperative research and development projects or coproduction projects
—(A)
General.
(
1
) For purposes of H-1B classification, services of an exceptional nature relating to DOD cooperative research and development projects or coproduction projects shall be those services which require a baccalaureate or higher degree, or its equivalent, to perform the duties. The existence of this special program does not preclude the DOD from utilizing the regular H-1B provisions provided the required guidelines are met.
(
2
) The requirements relating to a labor condition application from the Department of Labor shall not apply to petitions involving DOD cooperative research and development projects or coproduction projects.
(B)
Petitioner requirements.
(
1
) The petition must be accompanied by a verification letter from the DOD project manager for the particular project stating that the alien will be working on a cooperative research and development project or a coproduction project under a reciprocal Government-to-Government agreement administered by DOD. Details about the specific project are not required.
(
2
) The petitioner shall provide a general description of the alien's duties on the particular project and indicate the actual dates of the alien's employment on the project.
(
3
) The petitioner shall submit a statement indicating the names of aliens currently employed on the project in the United States and their dates of employment. The petitioner shall also indicate the names of aliens whose employment on the project ended within the past year.
(C)
Beneficiary requirement.
The petition shall be accompanied by evidence that the beneficiary has a baccalaureate or higher degree or its equivalent in the occupational field in which he or she will be performing services in accordance with paragraph (h)(4)(iii)(C) and/or (h)(4)(iii)(D) of this section.
(vii)
Criteria and documentary requirements for H-1B petitions for aliens of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling
—(A)
General.
Prominence in the field of fashion modeling may be established in the case of an individual fashion model. The work which a prominent alien is coming to perform in the United States must require the services of a prominent alien. A petition for an H-1B alien of distinguished merit and ability in the field of
fashion modeling shall be accompanied by:
(
1
) Documentation, certifications, affidavits, writings, reviews, or any other required evidence sufficient to establish that the beneficiary is a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability. Affidavits submitted by present or former employers or recognized experts certifying to the recognition and distinguished ability of the beneficiary shall specifically describe the beneficiary's recognition and ability in factual terms and must set forth the expertise of the affiant and the manner in which the affiant acquired such information.
(
2
) Copies of any written contracts between the petitioner and beneficiary, or a summary of the terms of the oral agreement under which the beneficiary will be employed, if there is no written contract.
(B)
Petitioner's requirements.
To establish that a position requires prominence, the petitioner must establish that the position meets one of the following criteria:
(
1
) The services to be performed involve events or productions which have a distinguished reputation;
(
2
) The services are to be performed for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation for, or record of, employing prominent persons.
(C)
Beneficiary's requirements.
A petitioner may establish that a beneficiary is a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability by the submission of two of the following forms of documentation showing that the alien:
(
1
) Has achieved national or international recognition and acclaim for outstanding achievement in his or her field as evidenced by reviews in major newspapers, trade journals, magazines, or other published material;
(
2
) Has performed and will perform services as a fashion model for employers with a distinguished reputation;
(
3
) Has received recognition for significant achievements from organizations, critics, fashion houses, modeling agencies, or other recognized experts in the field; or
(
4
) Commands a high salary or other substantial remuneration for services evidenced by contracts or other reliable evidence.
(viii)
Criteria and documentary requirements for H-1B petitions for physicians
—(A)
Beneficiary's requirements.
An H-1B petition for a physician shall be accompanied by evidence that the physician:
(
1
) Has a license or other authorization required by the state of intended employment to practice medicine, or is exempt by law therefrom, if the physician will perform direct patient care and the state requires the license or authorization, and
(
2
) Has a full and unrestricted license to practice medicine in a foreign state or has graduated from a medical school in the United States or in a foreign state.
(B)
Petitioner's requirements.
The petitioner must establish that the alien physician:
(
1
) Is coming to the United States primarily to teach or conduct research, or both, at or for a public or nonprofit private educational or research institution or agency, and that no patient care will be performed, except that which is incidental to the physician's teaching or research; or
(
2
) The alien has passed the Federation Licensing Examination (or an equivalent examination as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services) or is a graduate of a United States medical school; and
(
i
) Has competency in oral and written English which shall be demonstrated by the passage of the English language proficiency test given by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates; or
(
ii
) Is a graduate of a school of medicine accredited by a body or bodies approved for that purpose by the Secretary of Education.
(C)
Exception for physicians of national or international renown.
A physician who is a graduate of a medical school in a foreign state and who is of national or international renown in the field of medicine is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (h)(4)(viii)(B) of this section.
(5)
Petition for alien to perform agricultural labor or services of a temporary or seasonal nature (H-2A)
—(i)
Filing a petition
—(A)
General.
An H-2A petition must be filed on the form prescribed by
USCIS with a single valid temporary agricultural labor certification. The petition may be filed by either the employer listed on the temporary labor certification, the employer's agent, or the association of United States agricultural producers named as a joint employer on the temporary labor certification.
(B)
Multiple beneficiaries.
The total number of beneficiaries of a petition or series of petitions based on the same temporary labor certification may not exceed the number of workers indicated on that document. A single petition can include more than one named beneficiary if the total number is 25 or fewer and does not exceed the number of positions indicated on the relating temporary labor certification.
(C) [Reserved]
(D)
Evidence.
An H-2A petitioner must show that the proposed employment qualifies as a basis for H-2A status, and that any named beneficiary qualifies for that employment. A petition will be automatically denied if filed without the certification evidence required in paragraph (h)(5)(i)(A) of this section and, for each named beneficiary, the initial evidence required in paragraph (h)(5)(v) of this section.
(E)
Special filing requirements.
Where a certification shows joint employers, a petition must be filed with an attachment showing that each employer has agreed to the conditions of H-2A eligibility. A petition filed by an agent must be filed with an attachment in which the employer has authorized the agent to act on its behalf, has assumed full responsibility for all representations made by the agent on its behalf, and has agreed to the conditions of H-2A eligibility.
(F)
Eligible Countries.
(
1
)(
i
) H-2A petitions may only be approved for nationals of countries that the Secretary of Homeland Security has designated as participating countries, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, in a notice published in the
Federal Register,
taking into account factors, including but not limited to:
(
A
) The country's cooperation with respect to issuance of travel documents for citizens, subjects, nationals and residents of that country who are subject to a final order of removal;
(
B
) The number of final and unexecuted orders of removal against citizens, subjects, nationals and residents of that country;
(
C
) The number of orders of removal executed against citizens, subjects, nationals and residents of that country; and
(
D
) Such other factors as may serve the U.S. interest.
(
ii
) A national from a country not on the list described in paragraph (h)(5)(i)(F)(
1
)(
i
) of this section may be a beneficiary of an approved H-2A petition upon the request of a petitioner or potential H-2A petitioner, if the Secretary of Homeland Security, in his sole and unreviewable discretion, determines that it is in the U.S. interest for that alien to be a beneficiary of such petition. Determination of such a U.S. interest will take into account factors, including but not limited to:
(
A
) Evidence from the petitioner demonstrating that a worker with the required skills is not available either from among U.S. workers or from among foreign workers from a country currently on the list described in paragraph (h)(5)(i)(F)(
1
)(
i
) of this section;
(
B
) Evidence that the beneficiary has been admitted to the United States previously in H-2A status;
(
C
) The potential for abuse, fraud, or other harm to the integrity of the H-2A visa program through the potential admission of a beneficiary from a country not currently on the list; and
(
D
) Such other factors as may serve the U.S. interest.
(
2
) Once published, any designation of participating countries pursuant to paragraph (h)(5)(i)(F)(
1
)(
i
) of this section shall be effective for one year after the date of publication in the
Federal Register
and shall be without effect at the end of that one-year period.
(ii)
Effect of the labor certification process.
The temporary agricultural labor certification process determines whether employment is as an agricultural worker, whether it is open to U.S. workers, if qualified U.S. workers are available, the adverse impact of employment of a qualified alien, and whether employment conditions, including housing, meet applicable requirements. In petition proceedings a
petitioner must establish that the employment and beneficiary meet the requirements of paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
(iii)
Ability and intent to meet a job offer
—(A)
Eligibility requirements.
An H-2A petitioner must establish that each beneficiary will be employed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the certification, which includes that the principal duties to be performed are those on the certification, with other duties minor and incidental.
(B)
Intent and prior compliance.
Requisite intent cannot be established for two years after an employer or joint employer, or a parent, subsidiary or affiliate thereof, is found to have violated section 274(a) of the Act or to have employed an H-2A worker in a position other than that described in the relating petition.
(C)
Initial evidence.
Representations required for the purpose of labor certification are initial evidence of intent.
(iv)
Temporary and seasonal employment
—(A)
Eligibility requirements.
An H-2A petitioner must establish that the employment proposed in the certification is of a temporary or seasonal nature. Employment is of a seasonal nature where it is tied to a certain time of year by an event or pattern, such as a short annual growing cycle or a specific aspect of a longer cycle, and requires labor levels far above those necessary for ongoing operations. Employment is of a temporary nature where the employer's need to fill the position with a temporary worker will, except in extraordinary circumstances, last no longer than one year.
(B)
Effect of Department of Labor findings.
In temporary agricultural labor certification proceedings the Department of Labor separately tests whether employment qualifies as temporary or seasonal. Its finding that employment qualifies is normally sufficient for the purpose of an H-2A petition, However, notwithstanding that finding, employment will be found not to be temporary or seasonal where an application for permanent labor certification has been filed for the same alien, or for another alien to be employed in the same position, by the same employer or by its parent, subsidiary or affiliate. This can only be overcome by the petitioner's demonstration that there will be at least a six month interruption of employment in the United States after H-2A status ends. Also, eligibility will not be found, notwithstanding the issuance of a temporary agricultural labor certification, where there is substantial evidence that the employment is not temporary or seasonal.
(v)
The beneficiary's qualifications
—(A)
Eligibility requirements.
An H-2A petitioner must establish that any named beneficiary met the stated minimum requirements and was fully able to perform the stated duties when the application for certification was filed. It must be established at time of application for an H-2A visa, or for admission if a visa is not required, that any unnamed beneficiary either met these requirements when the certification was applied for or passed any certified aptitude test at any time prior to visa issuance, or prior to admission if a visa is not required.
(B)
Evidence of employment/job training.
For petitions with named beneficiaries, a petition must be filed with evidence that the beneficiary met the certification's minimum employment and job training requirements, if any are prescribed, as of the date of the filing of the labor certification application. For petitions with unnamed beneficiaries, such evidence must be submitted at the time of a visa application or, if a visa is not required, at the time the applicant seeks admission to the United States. Evidence must be in the form of the past employer or employers' detailed statement(s) or actual employment documents, such as company payroll or tax records. Alternately, a petitioner must show that such evidence cannot be obtained, and submit affidavits from persons who worked with the beneficiary that demonstrate the claimed employment or job training.
(C)
Evidence of education and other training.
For petitions with named beneficiaries, a petition must be filed with evidence that the beneficiary met all of the certification's post-secondary education and other formal training requirements, if any are prescribed in the labor certification application as of date of the filing of the labor certification application. For petitions with
unnamed beneficiaries, such evidence must be submitted at the time of a visa application or, if a visa is not required, at the time the applicant seeks admission to the United States. Evidence must be in the form of documents, issued by the relevant institution(s) or organization(s), that show periods of attendance, majors and degrees or certificates accorded.
(vi)
Petitioner consent and notification requirements
—(A)
Consent.
In filing an H-2A petition, a petitioner and each employer consents to allow access to the site by DHS officers where the labor is being performed for the purpose of determining compliance with H-2A requirements.
(B)
Agreements.
The petitioner agrees to the following requirements:
(
1
) To notify DHS, within 2 workdays, and beginning on a date and in a manner specified in a notice published in the
Federal Register
if:
(
i
) An H-2A worker fails to report to work within 5 workdays of the employment start date on the H-2A petition or within 5 workdays of the start date established by his or her employer, whichever is later;
(
ii
) The agricultural labor or services for which H-2A workers were hired is completed more than 30 days earlier than the employment end date stated on the H-2A petition; or
(
iii
) The H-2A worker absconds from the worksite or is terminated prior to the completion of agricultural labor or services for which he or she was hired.
(
2
) To retain evidence of such notification and make it available for inspection by DHS officers for a 1-year period beginning on the date of the notification. To retain evidence of a different employment start date if it is changed from that on the petition by the employer and make it available for inspection by DHS officers for the 1-year period beginning on the newly-established employment start date.
(
3)
To pay $10 in liquidated damages for each instance where the employer cannot demonstrate that it has complied with the notification requirements, unless, in the case of an untimely notification, the employer demonstrates with such notification that good cause existed for the untimely notification, and DHS, in its discretion, waives the liquidated damages amount.
(C)
Process.
If DHS has determined that the petitioner has violated the notification requirements in paragraph (h)(5)(vi)(B)(1) of this section and has not received the required notification, the petitioner will be given written notice and 30 days to reply before being given written notice of the assessment of liquidated damages.
(D)
Failure to pay liquidated damages.
If liquidated damages are not paid within 10 days of assessment, an H-2A petition may not be processed for that petitioner or any joint employer shown on the petition until such damages are paid.
(E)
Abscondment.
An H-2A worker has absconded if he or she has not reported for work for a period of 5 consecutive workdays without the consent of the employer.
(vii)
Validity.
An approved H-2A petition is valid through the expiration of the relating certification for the purpose of allowing a beneficiary to seek issuance of an H-2A nonimmigrant visa, admission or an extension of stay for the purpose of engaging in the specific certified employment.
(viii)
Admission
—(A)
Effect of violations of status.
An alien may not be accorded H-2A status who, at any time during the past 5 years, USCIS finds to have violated, other than through no fault of his or her own (e.g., due to an employer's illegal or inappropriate conduct), any of the terms or conditions of admission into the United States as an H-2A nonimmigrant, including remaining beyond the specific period of authorized stay or engaging in unauthorized employment.
(B)
Period of admission.
An alien admissible as an H-2A nonimmigrant shall be admitted for the period of the approved petition. Such alien will be admitted for an additional period of up to one week before the beginning of the approved period for the purpose of travel to the worksite, and a 30-day period following the expiration of the H-2A petition for the purpose of departure or to seek an extension based on a subsequent offer of employment. Unless authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12 or section 214(n) of the Act, the beneficiary may
not work except during the validity period of the petition.
(C)
Limits on an individual's stay.
Except as provided in paragraph (h)(5)(viii)(B) of this section, an alien's stay as an H-2A nonimmigrant is limited by the term of an approved petition. An alien may remain longer to engage in other qualifying temporary agricultural employment by obtaining an extension of stay. However, an individual who has held H-2A status for a total of 3 years may not again be granted H-2A status until such time as he or she remains outside the United States for an uninterrupted period of 3 months. An absence from the United States can interrupt the accrual of time spent as an H-2A nonimmigrant against the 3-year limit. If the accumulated stay is 18 months or less, an absence is interruptive if it lasts for at least 45 days. If the accumulated stay is greater than 18 months, an absence is interruptive if it lasts for at least 2 months. Eligibility under paragraph (h)(5)(viii)(C) of this section will be determined in admission, change of status or extension proceedings. An alien found eligible for a shorter period of H-2A status than that indicated by the petition due to the application of this paragraph (h)(5)(viii)(C) of this section shall only be admitted for that abbreviated period.
(ix)
Substitution of beneficiaries after admission.
An H-2A petition may be filed to replace H-2A workers whose employment was terminated earlier than the end date stated on the H-2A petition and before the completion of work; who fail to report to work within five days of the employment start date on the H-2A petition or within five days of the start date established by his or her employer, whichever is later; or who abscond from the worksite. The petition must be filed with a copy of the certification document, a copy of the approval notice covering the workers for which replacements are sought, and other evidence required by paragraph (h)(5)(i)(D) of this section. It must also be filed with a statement giving each terminated or absconded worker's name, date and country of birth, termination date, and the reason for termination, and the date that USCIS was notified that the alien was terminated or absconded, if applicable. A petition for a replacement will not be approved where the requirements of paragraph (h)(5)(vi) of this section have not been met. A petition for replacements does not constitute the notification required by paragraph (h)(5)(vi)(B)(
1
) of this section.
(x)
Extensions in emergent circumstances.
In emergent circumstances, as determined by USCIS, a single H-2A petition may be extended for a period not to exceed 2 weeks without an additional approved labor certification if filed on behalf of one or more beneficiaries who will continue to be employed by the same employer that previously obtained an approved petition on the beneficiary's behalf, so long as the employee continues to perform the same duties and will be employed for no longer than 2 weeks after the expiration of previously-approved H-2A petition. The previously approved H-2A petition must have been based on an approved temporary labor certification, which shall be considered to be extended upon the approval of the extension of H-2A status.
(xi)
Treatment of petitions and alien beneficiaries upon a determination that fees were collected from alien beneficiaries
—(A)
Denial or revocation of petition.
As a condition to approval of an H-2A petition, no job placement fee or other compensation (either direct or indirect) may be collected at any time, including before or after the filing or approval of the petition, from a beneficiary of an H-2A petition by a petitioner, agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service as a condition of H-2A employment (other than the lesser of the fair market value or actual costs of transportation and any government-mandated passport, visa, or inspection fees, to the extent that the payment of such costs and fees by the beneficiary is not prohibited by statute or Department of Labor regulations, unless the employer agent, facilitator, recruiter, or employment service has agreed with the alien to pay such costs and fees).
(
1
) If USCIS determines that the petitioner has collected, or entered into an agreement to collect, such prohibited fee or compensation, the H-2A petition
will be denied or revoked on notice unless the petitioner demonstrates that, prior to the filing of the petition, the petitioner has reimbursed the alien in full for such fees or compensation, or, where such fee or compensation has not yet been paid by the alien worker, that the agreement has been terminated.
(
2
) If USCIS determines that the petitioner knew or should have known at the time of filing the petition that the beneficiary has paid or agreed to pay any facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service such fees or compensation as a condition of obtaining the H-2A employment, the H-2A petition will be denied or revoked on notice unless the petitioner demonstrates that, prior to the filing of the petition, the petitioner or the facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service has reimbursed the alien in full for such fees or compensation or, where such fee or compensation has not yet been paid by the alien worker, that the agreement has been terminated.
(
3
) If USCIS determines that the beneficiary paid the petitioner such fees or compensation as a condition of obtaining the H-2A employment after the filing of the H-2A petition, the petition will be denied or revoked on notice.
(
4
) If USCIS determines that the beneficiary paid or agreed to pay the agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service such fees or compensation as a condition of obtaining the H-2A employment after the filing of the H-2A petition and with the knowledge of the petitioner, the petition will be denied or revoked unless the petitioner demonstrates that the petitioner or facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service has reimbursed the beneficiary in full or where such fee or compensation has not yet been paid by the alien worker, that the agreement has been terminated, or notifies DHS within 2 workdays of obtaining knowledge in a manner specified in a notice published in the
Federal Register.
(B)
Effect of petition revocation.
Upon revocation of an employer's H-2A petition based upon paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(A) of this section, the alien beneficiary's stay will be authorized and the alien will not accrue any period of unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(9)) for a 30-day period following the date of the revocation for the purpose of departure or extension of stay based upon a subsequent offer of employment.
(C)
Reimbursement as condition to approval of future H-2A petitions
—(
1
)
Filing subsequent H-2A petitions within 1 year of denial or revocation of previous H-2A petition.
A petitioner filing an H-2A petition within 1 year after the decision denying or revoking on notice an H-2A petition filed by the same petitioner on the basis of paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(A) of this section must demonstrate to the satisfaction of USCIS, as a condition of approval of such petition, that the petitioner or agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service has reimbursed the beneficiary in full or that the petitioner has failed to locate the beneficiary. If the petitioner demonstrates to the satisfaction of USCIS that the beneficiary was reimbursed in full, such condition of approval shall be satisfied with respect to any subsequently filed H-2A petitions, except as provided in paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(C)(
2
). If the petitioner demonstrates to the satisfaction of USCIS that it has made reasonable efforts to locate the beneficiary with respect to each H-2A petition filed within 1 year after the decision denying or revoking the previous H-2A petition on the basis of paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(A) of this section but has failed to do so, such condition of approval shall be deemed satisfied with respect to any H-2A petition filed 1 year or more after the denial or revocation. Such reasonable efforts shall include contacting any of the beneficiary's known addresses.
(
2
)
Effect of subsequent denied or revoked petitions.
An H-2A petition filed by the same petitioner subsequent to a denial under paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(A) of this section shall be subject to the condition of approval described in paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(C)(
1
) of this section, regardless of prior satisfaction of such condition of approval with respect to a previously denied or revoked petition.
(xii)
Treatment of alien beneficiaries upon revocation of labor certification.
The approval of an employer's H-2A petition is immediately and automatically revoked if the Department of
Labor revokes the labor certification upon which the petition is based. Upon revocation of an H-2A petition based upon revocation of labor certification, the alien beneficiary's stay will be authorized and the alien will not accrue any period of unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9) of the Act for a 30-day period following the date of the revocation for the purpose of departure or extension of stay based upon a subsequent offer of employment.
(6)
Petition for alien to perform temporary nonagricultural services or labor (H-2B)
—(i)
Petition
—(A)
H-2B nonagricultural temporary worker.
An H-2B nonagricultural temporary worker is an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States to perform temporary services or labor without displacing qualified United States workers available to perform such services or labor and whose employment is not adversely affecting the wages and working conditions of United States workers.
(B)
Denial or revocation of petition upon a determination that fees were collected from alien beneficiaries.
As a condition of approval of an H-2B petition, no job placement fee or other compensation (either direct or indirect) may be collected at any time, including before or after the filing or approval of the petition, from a beneficiary of an H-2B petition by a petitioner, agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service as a condition of an offer or condition of H-2B employment (other than the lower of the actual cost or fair market value of transportation to such employment and any government-mandated passport, visa, or inspection fees, to the extent that the passing of such costs to the beneficiary is not prohibited by statute, unless the employer, agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service has agreed with the beneficiary that it will pay such costs and fees).
(
1
) If USCIS determines that the petitioner has collected or entered into an agreement to collect such fee or compensation, the H-2B petition will be denied or revoked on notice, unless the petitioner demonstrates that, prior to the filing of the petition, either the petitioner reimbursed the beneficiary in full for such fees or compensation or the agreement to collect such fee or compensation was terminated before the fee or compensation was paid by the beneficiary.
(
2
) If USCIS determines that the petitioner knew or should have known at the time of filing the petition that the beneficiary has paid or agreed to pay any agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service as a condition of an offer of the H-2B employment, the H-2B petition will be denied or revoked on notice unless the petitioner demonstrates that, prior to filing the petition, either the petitioner or the agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service reimbursed the beneficiary in full for such fees or compensation or the agreement to collect such fee or compensation was terminated before the fee or compensation was paid by the beneficiary.
(
3
) If USCIS determines that the beneficiary paid the petitioner such fees or compensation as a condition of an offer of H-2B employment after the filing of the H-2B petition, the petition will be denied or revoked on notice.
(
4
) If USCIS determines that the beneficiary paid or agreed to pay the agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service such fees or compensation after the filing of the H-2B petition and that the petitioner knew or had reason to know of the payment or agreement to pay, the petition will be denied or revoked unless the petitioner demonstrates that the petitioner or agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service reimbursed the beneficiary in full, that the parties terminated any agreement to pay before the beneficiary paid the fees or compensation, or that the petitioner has notified DHS within 2 work days of obtaining knowledge, in a manner specified in a notice published in the
Federal Register.
(C)
Effect of petition revocation.
Upon revocation of an employer's H-2B petition based upon paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) of this section, the alien beneficiary's stay will be authorized and the beneficiary will not accrue any period of unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(9)) for a 30-day period following the date of
the revocation for the purpose of departure or extension of stay based upon a subsequent offer of employment. The employer shall be liable for the alien beneficiary's reasonable costs of return transportation to his or her last place of foreign residence abroad, unless such alien obtains an extension of stay based on an approved H-2B petition filed by a different employer.
(D)
Reimbursement as condition to approval of future H-2B petitions
—(1)
Filing subsequent H-2B petitions within 1 year of denial or revocation of previous H-2B petition.
A petitioner filing an H-2B petition within 1 year after a decision denying or revoking on notice an H-2B petition filed by the same petitioner on the basis of paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) of this section must demonstrate to the satisfaction of USCIS, as a condition of the approval of the later petition, that the petitioner or agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service reimbursed in full each beneficiary of the denied or revoked petition from whom a prohibited fee was collected or that the petitioner has failed to locate each such beneficiary despite the petitioner's reasonable efforts to locate them. If the petitioner demonstrates to the satisfaction of USCIS that each such beneficiary was reimbursed in full, such condition of approval shall be satisfied with respect to any subsequently filed H-2B petitions, except as provided in paragraph (h)(6)(i)(D)(
2
) of this section. If the petitioner demonstrates to the satisfaction of USCIS that it has made reasonable efforts to locate but has failed to locate each such beneficiary within 1 year after the decision denying or revoking the previous H-2B petition on the basis of paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) of this section, such condition of approval shall be deemed satisfied with respect to any H-2B petition filed 1 year or more after the denial or revocation. Such reasonable efforts shall include contacting all of each such beneficiary's known addresses.
(
2
)
Effect of subsequent denied or revoked petitions.
An H-2B petition filed by the same petitioner subsequent to a denial under paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) of this section shall be subject to the condition of approval described in paragraph (h)(6)(i)(D)(
1
) of this section, regardless of prior satisfaction of such condition of approval with respect to a previously denied or revoked petition.
(E)
Eligible countries.
(
1
) H-2B petitions may be approved for nationals of countries that the Secretary of Homeland Security has designated as participating countries, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, in a notice published in the
Federal Register,
taking into account factors, including but not limited to:
(
i
) The country's cooperation with respect to issuance of travel documents for citizens, subjects, nationals and residents of that country who are subject to a final order of removal;
(
ii
) The number of final and unexecuted orders of removal against citizens, subjects, nationals, and residents of that country;
(
iii
) The number of orders of removal executed against citizens, subjects, nationals and residents of that country; and
(
iv
) Such other factors as may serve the U.S. interest.
(
2
) A national from a country not on the list described in paragraph (h)(6)(i)(E)(
1
) of this section may be a beneficiary of an approved H-2B petition upon the request of a petitioner or potential H-2B petitioner, if the Secretary of Homeland Security, in his sole and unreviewable discretion, determines that it is in the U.S. interest for that alien to be a beneficiary of such petition. Determination of such a U.S. interest will take into account factors, including but not limited to:
(
i
) Evidence from the petitioner demonstrating that a worker with the required skills is not available from among foreign workers from a country currently on the list described in paragraph (h)(6)(i)(E)(
1
) of this section;
(
ii
) Evidence that the beneficiary has been admitted to the United States previously in H-2B status;
(
iii
) The potential for abuse, fraud, or other harm to the integrity of the H-2B visa program through the potential admission of a beneficiary from a country not currently on the list; and
(
iv
) Such other factors as may serve the U.S. interest.
(
3
) Once published, any designation of participating countries pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(i)(E)(
1
) of this section
shall be effective for one year after the date of publication in the
Federal Register
and shall be without effect at the end of that one-year period.
(F)
Petitioner agreements and notification requirements
—(
1
)
Agreements.
The petitioner agrees to notify DHS, within 2 work days, and beginning on a date and in a manner specified in a notice published in the
Federal Register
if: An H-2B worker fails to report for work within 5 work days after the employment start date stated on the petition; the nonagricultural labor or services for which H-2B workers were hired were completed more than 30 days early; or an H-2B worker absconds from the worksite or is terminated prior to the completion of the nonagricultural labor or services for which he or she was hired. The petitioner also agrees to retain evidence of such notification and make it available for inspection by DHS officers for a one-year period beginning on the date of the notification.
(
2
)
Abscondment.
An H-2B worker has absconded if he or she has not reported for work for a period of 5 consecutive work days without the consent of the employer.
(ii)
Temporary services or labor
—(A)
Definition.
Temporary services or labor under the H-2B classification refers to any job in which the petitioner's need for the duties to be performed by the employee(s) is temporary, whether or not the underlying job can be described as permanent or temporary.
(B)
Nature of petitioner's need.
Employment is of a temporary nature when the employer needs a worker for a limited period of time. The employer must establish that the need for the employee will end in the near, definable future. Generally, that period of time will be limited to one year or less, but in the case of a one-time event could last up to 3 years. The petitioner's need for the services or labor shall be a one-time occurrence, a seasonal need, a peak load need, or an intermittent need.
(
1
)
One-time occurrence.
The petitioner must establish that it has not employed workers to perform the services or labor in the past and that it will not need workers to perform the services or labor in the future, or that it has an employment situation that is otherwise permanent, but a temporary event of short duration has created the need for a temporary worker.
(
2
)
Seasonal need.
The petitioner must establish that the services or labor is traditionally tied to a season of the year by an event or pattern and is of a recurring nature. The petitioner shall specify the period(s) of time during each year in which it does not need the services or labor. The employment is not seasonal if the period during which the services or labor is not needed is unpredictable or subject to change or is considered a vacation period for the petitioner's permanent employees.
(
3
)
Peakload need.
The petitioner must establish that it regularly employs permanent workers to perform the services or labor at the place of employment and that it needs to supplement its permanent staff at the place of employment on a temporary basis due to a seasonal or short-term demand and that the temporary additions to staff will not become a part of the petitioner's regular operation.
(
4
)
Intermittent need.
The petitioner must establish that it has not employed permanent or full-time workers to perform the services or labor, but occasionally or intermittently needs temporary workers to perform services or labor for short periods.
(iii)
Procedures.
(A) Prior to filing a petition with the director to classify an alien as an H-2B worker, the petitioner shall apply for a temporary labor certification with the Secretary of Labor for all areas of the United States, except the Territory of Guam. In the Territory of Guam, the petitioning employer shall apply for a temporary labor certification with the Governor of Guam. The labor certification shall be advice to the director on whether or not United States workers capable of performing the temporary services or labor are available and whether or not the alien's employment will adversely affect the wages and working conditions of similarly employed United States workers.
(B) An H-2B petitioner shall be a United States employer, a United States agent, or a foreign employer filing through a United States agent. For
purposes of paragraph (h) of this section, a foreign employer is any employer who is not amenable to service of process in the United States. A foreign employer may not directly petition for an H-2B nonimmigrant but must use the services of a United States agent to file a petition for an H-2B nonimmigrant. A United States agent petitioning on behalf of a foreign employer must be authorized to file the petition, and to accept service of process in the United States in proceedings under section 274A of the Act, on behalf of the employer. The petitioning employer shall consider available United States workers for the temporary services or labor, and shall offer terms and conditions of employment which are consistent with the nature of the occupation, activity, and industry in the United States.
(C) The petitioner may not file an H-2B petition unless the United States petitioner has applied for a labor certification with the Secretary of Labor or the Governor of Guam within the time limits prescribed or accepted by each, and has obtained a favorable labor certification determination as required by paragraph (h)(6)(iv) or (h)(6)(v) of this section.
(D) The Governor of Guam shall separately establish procedures for administering the temporary labor program under his or her jurisdiction. The Secretary of Labor shall separately establish for the temporary labor program under his or her jurisdiction, by regulation at 20 CFR 655, procedures for administering that temporary labor program under his or her jurisdiction, and shall determine the prevailing wage applicable to an application for temporary labor certification for that temporary labor program in accordance with the Secretary of Labor's regulation at 20 CFR 655.10.
(E) After obtaining a favorable determination from the Secretary of Labor or the Governor of Guam, as appropriate, the petitioner shall file a petition on the form prescribed by USCIS, accompanied by the labor certification determination and supporting documents, with the director having jurisdiction in the area of intended employment.
(iv)
Labor certifications, except Guam
—(A)
Secretary of Labor's determination.
An H-2B petition for temporary employment in the United States, except for temporary employment on Guam, shall be accompanied by an approved temporary labor certification from the Secretary of Labor stating that qualified workers in the United States are not available and that the alien's employment will not adversely affect wages and working conditions of similarly employed United States workers.
(B)
Validity of the labor certification.
The Secretary of Labor may issue a temporary labor certification for a period of up to one year.
(C)
U.S. Virgin Islands.
Temporary labor certifications filed under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of the Act for employment in the United States Virgin Islands may be approved only for entertainers and athletes and only for periods not to exceed 45 days.
(D)
Employment start date.
Beginning with petitions filed for workers for fiscal year 2010, an H-2B petition must state an employment start date that is the same as the date of need stated on the approved temporary labor certification. A petitioner filing an amended H-2B petition due to the unavailability of originally requested workers may state an employment start date later than the date of need stated on the previously approved temporary labor certification accompanying the amended H-2B petition.
(v)
Labor certification for Guam
—(A)
Governor of Guam's determination.
An H-2B petition for temporary employment on Guam shall be accompanied by an approved temporary labor certification issued by the Governor of Guam stating that qualified workers in the United States are not available to perform the required services, and that the alien's employment will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of United States resident workers who are similarly employed on Guam.
(B)
Validity of labor certification.
The Governor of Guam may issue a temporary labor certification for a period up to one year.
(C)-(D) [Reserved]
(E)
Criteria for Guam labor certifications.
The Governor of Guam shall, in
consultation with the Service, establish systematic methods for determining the prevailing wage rates and working conditions for individual occupations on Guam and for making determinations as to availability of qualified United States residents.
(
1
)
Prevailing wage and working conditions.
The system to determine wages and working conditions must provide for consideration of wage rates and employment conditions for occupations in both the private and public sectors, in Guam and/or in the United States (as defined in section 101(a)(38) of the Act), and may not consider wages and working conditions outside of the United States. If the system includes utilization of advisory opinions and consultations, the opinions must be provided by officially sanctioned groups which reflect a balance of the interests of the private and public sectors, government, unions and management.
(
2
)
Availability of United States workers.
The system for determining availability of qualified United States workers must require the prospective employer to:
(
i
) Advertise the availability of the position for a minimum of three consecutive days in the newspaper with the largest daily circulation on Guam;
(
ii
) Place a job offer with an appropriate agency of the Territorial Government which operates as a job referral service at least 30 days in advance of the need for the services to commence, except that for applications from the armed forces of the United States and those in the entertainment industry, the 30-day period may be reduced by the Governor to 10 days;
(
iii
) Conduct appropriate recruitment in other areas of the United States and its territories if sufficient qualified United States construction workers are not available on Guam to fill a job. The Governor of Guam may require a job order to be placed more than 30 days in advance of need to accommodate such recruitment;
(
iv
) Report to the appropriate agency the names of all United States resident workers who applied for the position, indicating those hired and the job-related reasons for not hiring;
(
v
) Offer all special considerations, such as housing and transportation expenses, to all United States resident workers who applied for the position, indicating those hired and the job-related reasons for not hiring;
(
vi
) Meet the prevailing wage rates and working conditions determined under the wages and working conditions system by the Governor; and
(
vii
) Agree to meet all Federal and Territorial requirements relating to employment, such as nondiscrimination, occupational safety, and minimum wage requirements.
(F)
Approval and publication of employment systems on Guam—(1
)
Systems.
The Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization must approve the system to determine prevailing wages and working conditions and the system to determine availability of United States resident workers and any future modifications of the systems prior to implementation. If the Commissioner, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, finds that the systems or modified systems meet the requirements of this section, the Commissioner shall publish them as a notice in the
Federal Register
and the Governor shall publish them as a public record in Guam.
(
2
)
Approval of construction wage rates.
The Commissioner must approve specific wage data and rates used for construction occupations on Guam prior to implementation of new rates. The Governor shall submit new wage survey data and proposed rates to the Commissioner for approval at least eight weeks before authority to use existing rates expires. Surveys shall be conducted at least every two years, unless the Commissioner prescribes a lesser period.
(G)
Reporting.
The Governor shall provide the Commissioner statistical data on temporary labor certification workload and determinations. This information shall be submitted quarterly no later than 30 days after the quarter ends.
(H)
Invalidation of temporary labor certification issued by the Governor of Guam
—(
1
)
General.
A temporary labor certification issued by the Governor of Guam may be invalidated by a director if it is determined by the director or a
court of law that the certification request involved fraud or willful misrepresentation. A temporary labor certification may also be invalidated if the director determines that the certification involved gross error.
(
2
)
Notice of intent to invalidate.
If the director intends to invalidate a temporary labor certification, a notice of intent shall be served upon the employer, detailing the reasons for the intended invalidation. The employer shall have 30 days in which to file a written response in rebuttal to the notice of intent. The director shall consider all evidence submitted upon rebuttal in reaching a decision.
(
3
)
Appeal of invalidation.
An employer may appeal the invalidation of a temporary labor certification in accordance with part 103 of this chapter.
(vi)
Evidence for H-2B petitions.
An H-2B petition shall be accompanied by:
(A)
Labor certification.
An approved temporary labor certification issued by the Secretary of Labor or the Governor of Guam, as appropriate;
(B) [Reserved]
(C)
Alien's qualifications.
In petitions where the temporary labor certification application requires certain education, training, experience, or special requirements of the beneficiary who is present in the United States, documentation that the alien qualifies for the job offer as specified in the application for such temporary labor certification. This requirement also applies to the named beneficiary who is abroad on the basis of special provisions stated in paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section;
(D)
Statement of need.
A statement describing in detail the temporary situation or conditions which make it necessary to bring the alien to the United States and whether the need is a one-time occurrence, seasonal, peakload, or intermittent. If the need is seasonal, peakload, or intermittent, the statement shall indicate whether the situation or conditions are expected to be recurrent; or
(E)
Liability for transportation costs.
The employer will be liable for the reasonable costs of return transportation of the alien abroad, if the alien is dismissed from employment for any reason by the employer before the end of the period of authorized admission pursuant to section 214(c)(5) of the Act. If the beneficiary voluntarily terminates his or her employment prior to the expiration of the validity of the petition, the alien has not been dismissed. If the beneficiary believes that the employer has not complied with this provision, the beneficiary shall advise the Service Center which adjudicated the petition in writing. The complaint will be retained in the file relating to the petition. Within the context of this paragraph, the term “abroad” means the alien's last place of foreign residence. This provision applies to any employer whose offer of employment became the basis for the alien obtaining or continuing H-2B status.
(vii)
Traded professional H-2B athletes.
In the case of a professional H-2B athlete who is traded from one organization to another organization, employment authorization for the player will automatically continue for a period of 30 days after the player's acquisition by the new organization, within which time the new organization is expected to file a new application or petition for H-2B nonimmigrant classification. If a new application or petition is not filed within 30 days, employment authorization will cease. If a new application or petition is filed within 30 days, the professional athlete shall be deemed to be in valid H-2B status, and employment shall continue to be authorized, until the petition is adjudicated. If the new petition is denied, employment authorization will cease.
(viii)
Substitution of beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries of H-2B petitions that are approved for named or unnamed beneficiaries who have not been admitted may be substituted only if the employer can demonstrate that the total number of beneficiaries will not exceed the number of beneficiaries certified in the original temporary labor certification. Beneficiaries who were admitted to the United States may not be substituted without a new petition accompanied by a newly approved temporary labor certification.
(A) To substitute beneficiaries who were previously approved for consular processing but have not been admitted with aliens who are outside of the United States, the petitioner shall, by
letter and a copy of the petition approval notice, notify the consular office at which the alien will apply for a visa or the port of entry where the alien will apply for admission. The petitioner shall also submit evidence of the qualifications of beneficiaries to the consular office or port of entry prior to issuance of a visa or admission, if applicable.
(B) To substitute beneficiaries who were previously approved for consular processing but have not been admitted with aliens who are currently in the United States, the petitioner shall file an amended petition with fees at the USCIS Service Center where the original petition was filed, with a copy of the original petition approval notice, a statement explaining why the substitution is necessary, evidence of the qualifications of beneficiaries, if applicable, evidence of the beneficiaries' current status in the United States, and evidence that the number of beneficiaries will not exceed the number allocated on the approved temporary labor certification, such as employment records or other documentary evidence to establish that the number of visas sought in the amended petition were not already issued. The amended petition must retain a period of employment within the same half of the same fiscal year as the original petition. Otherwise, a new temporary labor certification issued by DOL or the Governor of Guam and subsequent H-2B petition are required.
(ix)
Enforcement.
The Secretary of Labor may investigate employers to enforce compliance with the conditions of a petition and Department of Labor-approved temporary labor certification to admit or otherwise provide status to an H-2B worker.
(x) [Reserved]
(xi)
Special requirements for additional cap allocations under Public Laws 116-260, 117-43 and 117-70
—(A)
Public Law 116-260, and sections 101 and 106(3) of Division A of Public Law 117-43, Continuing Appropriations Act, 2022, and section 101 of Division A of Public Law 117-70, Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2022 through February 18, 2022
—
(
1
)
Supplemental allocation for returning workers.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2022 only, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 13,500 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant to section 105 of Division O of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, Public Law 116-260, sections 101 and 106(3) of Division A of Public Law 117-43, Continuing Appropriations Act, 2022, and section 101 of Division A of Public Law 117-70, Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2022 through February 18, 2022 based on petitions requesting FY 2022 employment start dates on or before March 31, 2022. An alien may be eligible to receive an H-2B nonimmigrant visa under this paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) if she or he is a returning worker. The term “returning worker” under this paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) means a person who was issued an H-2B visa or was otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2019, 2020, or 2021. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
).
(
2
)
Supplemental allocation for nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras (Northern Triangle countries), or Haiti.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2022 only, and in addition to the allocation described in paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) of this section, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 6,500 aliens who are nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras (Northern Triangle countries), or of Haiti who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant to section 105 of Division O of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, Public Law 116-260, and Public Laws 117-43 and 117-70, based on petitions with FY 2022 employment start dates on or before March 31, 2022. Such workers are not subject to the returning worker requirement in paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
). Petitioners must request such workers in an H-2B petition that is separate from H-2B petitions that request returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) and must declare that they are requesting these workers in the attestation required under 20 CFR 655.69(a)(1). A petition requesting returning workers under paragraph
(h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
), which is accompanied by an attestation indicating that the petitioner is requesting nationals of Northern Triangle countries or Haiti, will be rejected, denied or, in the case of a non-frivolous petition, will be approved solely for the number of beneficiaries that are from the Northern Triangle or Haiti. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
2
).
(B)
Eligibility.
In order to file a petition with USCIS under this paragraph (h)(6)(xi), the petitioner must:
(
1
) Comply with all other statutory and regulatory requirements for H-2B classification, including, but not limited to, requirements in this section, under part 103 of this chapter, and under 20 CFR part 655 and 29 CFR part 503; and
(
2
) Submit to USCIS, at the time the employer files its petition, a U.S. Department of Labor attestation, in compliance with this section and 20 CFR 655.64, evidencing that:
(
i
) Its business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xi);
(
ii
) All workers requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2019, 2020, or 2021, unless the H-2B worker is a national of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, or Haiti who is counted towards the 6,500 cap described in paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
2
) of this section;
(
iii
) The employer will comply with all Federal, State, and local employment-related laws and regulations, including, where applicable, health and safety laws and laws related to COVID-19 worker protections; any right to time off or paid time off for COVID-19 vaccination, or to reimbursement for travel to and from the nearest available vaccination site; and that the employer will notify any H-2B workers approved under the supplemental cap in paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
2
) of this section, in a language understood by the worker as necessary or reasonable, that all persons in the United States, including nonimmigrants, have equal access to COVID-19 vaccines and vaccine distribution sites;
(
iv
) The employer will comply with obligations and additional recruitment requirements outlined in 20 CFR 655.64(a)(3) through (5);
(
v
) The employer will provide documentary evidence of the facts in paragraphs (h)(6)(xi)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iv
) of this section to DHS or DOL upon request; and
(
vi
) The employer will agree to fully cooperate with any compliance review, evaluation, verification, or inspection conducted by DHS, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with immigration laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2022 supplemental allocations outlined in paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(B) of this section, as a condition for the approval of the petition.
(
vii
) The employer must attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-5 that it will fully cooperate with any audit, investigation, compliance review, evaluation, verification or inspection conducted by DOL, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2022 supplemental allocations outlined in 20 CFR 655.64(a) and 655.69(a), as a condition for the approval of the H-2B petition. The employer must further attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-5 that it will not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority pursuant to 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(C)
Processing.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section
that are received after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after March 31, 2022, whichever is sooner. USCIS will not approve a petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xi) on or after October 1, 2022.
(D)
Numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xi)(A)(1) and (2) of this section.
When calculating the numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section as authorized under Public Law 116-260, as extended by Public Law 117-43, and Public Law 117-70, USCIS will make numbers for each allocation available to petitions in the order in which the petitions subject to the respective limitation are received. USCIS will make projections of the number of petitions necessary to achieve the numerical limit of approvals, taking into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received (including the number of workers requested when necessary) and will notify the public of the dates that USCIS has received the necessary number of petitions (the “final receipt dates”) under paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) or (
2
). The day the public is notified will not control the final receipt dates. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers subject to the numerical limitations in paragraphs (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) and (
2
), USCIS may randomly select from among the petitions received on the final receipt dates the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to generate the numerical limit of approvals. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection. Petitions subject to a numerical limitation not randomly selected or that were received after the final receipt dates that may be applicable under paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) will be rejected. If the final receipt date is any of the first 5 business days on which petitions subject to the applicable numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) may be received (in other words, if either of the numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) is reached on any one of the first 5 business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly apply all of the numbers among the petitions received on any of those 5 business days.
(E)
Sunset.
This paragraph (h)(6)(xi) expires on October 1, 2022.
(F)
Non-severability.
The requirement to file an attestation under paragraph (h)(6)(xi)(B)(
2
) of this section is intended to be non-severable from the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xi), including, but not limited to, the numerical allocation provisions at paragraphs (h)(6)(xi)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section in their entirety. In the event that any part of this paragraph (h)(6)(xi) is enjoined or held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xi) is also intended to be enjoined or held to be invalid in such jurisdiction, without prejudice to workers already present in the United States under this paragraph (h)(6)(xi), as consistent with law.
(xii)
Special requirements for additional cap allocations under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022, Public Law 117-103
—(A)
Public Law 117-103
—(
1
)
Supplemental allocation for returning workers.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2022 only, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 23,500 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant to section 204 of Division O of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022, Public Law 117-103, based on petitions requesting FY 2022 employment start dates on or after April 1, 2022 through September 30, 2022. An alien may be eligible to receive an H-2B nonimmigrant visa under this paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) if she or he is a returning worker. The term “returning worker” under this paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) means a person who was issued an H-2B visa or was otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2019, 2020, or 2021. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
).
(
2
)
Supplemental allocation for nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras (Northern Central American countries), or Haiti.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2022 only, and in addition to the
allocation described in paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) of this section, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 11,500 aliens who are nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras (Northern Central American countries), or of Haiti who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant to section 204 of Division O of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022, Public Law 117-103, based on petitions with FY 2022 employment start dates on or after April 1, 2022 through September 30, 2022. Such workers are not subject to the returning worker requirement in paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
). Petitioners must request such workers in an H-2B petition that is separate from H-2B petitions that request returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) and must declare that they are requesting these workers in the attestation required under 20 CFR 655.66(a)(1). A petition requesting returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
), which is accompanied by an attestation indicating that the petitioner is requesting nationals of Northern Central American countries or Haiti, will be rejected, denied or, in the case of a non-frivolous petition, will be approved solely for the number of beneficiaries that are from the Northern Central American countries or Haiti. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
2
).
(B)
Eligibility.
In order to file a petition with USCIS under this paragraph (h)(6)(xii), the petitioner must:
(
1
) Comply with all other statutory and regulatory requirements for H-2B classification, including, but not limited to, requirements in this section, under part 103 of this chapter, and under 20 CFR part 655 and 29 CFR part 503; and
(
2
) Submit to USCIS, at the time the employer files its petition, a U.S. Department of Labor attestation, in compliance with this section and 20 CFR 655.65, evidencing that:
(
i
) Its business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xii);
(
ii
) All workers requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2019, 2020, or 2021, unless the H-2B worker is a national of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, or Haiti who is counted towards the 11,500 cap described in paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
2
) of this section;
(
iii
) The employer will comply with all Federal, State, and local employment-related laws and regulations, including, where applicable, health and safety laws and laws related to COVID-19 worker protections; any right to time off or paid time off for COVID-19 vaccination, or to reimbursement for travel to and from the nearest available vaccination site; and that the employer will notify any H-2B workers approved under the supplemental cap in paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
2
) of this section, in a language understood by the worker as necessary or reasonable, that all persons in the United States, including nonimmigrants, have equal access to COVID-19 vaccines and vaccine distribution sites;
(
iv
) The employer will comply with obligations and additional recruitment requirements outlined in 20 CFR 655.65(a)(3) through (5);
(
v
) The employer will provide documentary evidence of the facts in paragraphs (h)(6)(xii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iv
) of this section to DHS or DOL upon request; and
(
vi
) The employer will agree to fully cooperate with any compliance review, evaluation, verification, or inspection conducted by DHS, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with immigration laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2022 supplemental allocations outlined in paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(B) of this section, as a condition for the approval of the petition.
(
vii
) The employer must attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-6 that it will
fully cooperate with any audit, investigation, compliance review, evaluation, verification or inspection conducted by DOL, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2022 supplemental allocations outlined in 20 CFR 655.65(a) and 655.66(a), as a condition for the approval of the H-2B petition. The employer must further attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-6 that it will not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority pursuant to 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(C)
Processing.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section that are received after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2022, whichever is sooner. USCIS will not approve a petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xii) on or after October 1, 2022.
(D)
Numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xii)(A)(1) and (2) of this section.
When calculating the numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section as authorized under Public Law 117-103, USCIS will make numbers for each allocation available to petitions in the order in which the petitions subject to the respective limitation are received. USCIS will make projections of the number of petitions necessary to achieve the numerical limit of approvals, taking into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received (including the number of workers requested when necessary) and will notify the public of the dates that USCIS has received the necessary number of petitions (the “final receipt dates”) under paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
). The day the public is notified will not control the final receipt dates. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers subject to the numerical limitations in paragraphs (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
), USCIS may randomly select from among the petitions received on the final receipt dates the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to generate the numerical limit of approvals. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection. Petitions subject to a numerical limitation not randomly selected or that were received after the final receipt dates that may be applicable under paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) will be rejected. If the final receipt date is any of the first 5 business days on which petitions subject to the applicable numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) may be received (in other words, if either of the numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) is reached on any one of the first 5 business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly apply all of the numbers among the petitions received on any of those 5 business days.
(E)
Sunset.
This paragraph (h)(6)(xii) expires on October 1, 2022.
(F)
Non-severability.
The requirement to file an attestation under paragraph (h)(6)(xii)(B)(
2
) of this section is intended to be non-severable from the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xii), including, but not limited to, the numerical allocation provisions at paragraphs (h)(6)(xii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section in their entirety. In the event that any part of this paragraph (h)(6)(xii) is enjoined or held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xii) is also intended to be enjoined or held to be invalid in such jurisdiction, without prejudice to workers already present in the United States under this paragraph (h)(6)(xii), as consistent with law.
(xiii)
Special requirements for additional cap allocations under Public Laws 117-103 and 117-180
—(A)
Public Law 117-103 and section 101(6) of Division A of Public Law 117-180, Continuing Appropriations and Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023
—(
1
)
Supplemental
allocation for returning workers.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2023 only, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 64,716 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant to section 204 of Division O of Public Law 117-103, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022, and section 101(6) of Division A of Public Law 117-180, Continuing Appropriations and Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023. An alien may be eligible to receive an H-2B nonimmigrant visa under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) if she or he is a returning worker. The term “returning worker” under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) means a person who was issued an H-2B visa or was otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2020, 2021, or 2022. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
). The additional H-2B visas authorized under this paragraph will be made available to returning workers as follows:
(
i
) Up to an additional 18,216 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas based on petitions requesting FY 2023 employment start dates on or before March 31, 2023.
(
ii
) Up to an additional 16,500 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas based on petitions requesting FY 2023 employment start dates from April 1, 2023 to May 14, 2023.
(
iii
) Up to an additional 10,000 visas available for aliens with employment start dates from May 15, 2023 to September 30, 2023.
(
2
)
Supplemental allocation for nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras (Northern Central American countries), or Haiti.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2023 only, and in addition to the allocation described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) of this section, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 20,000 visas for aliens who are nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras (Northern Central American countries), or Haiti, who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant section 204 of Division O of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022, Public Law 117-103, and section 101(6) of Division A of Public Law 117-180 Continuing Appropriations and Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023, based on petitions with FY 2023 employment start dates. Such workers are not subject to the returning worker requirement in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
). Petitioners must request such workers in an H-2B petition that is separate from H-2B petitions that request returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) and must declare that they are requesting these workers in the attestation required under 20 CFR 655.67(a)(1). A petition requesting returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
), which is accompanied by an attestation indicating that the petitioner is requesting nationals of Northern Central American countries or Haiti, will be rejected, denied or, in the case of a non-frivolous petition, will be approved solely for the number of beneficiaries that are from the Northern Central American countries or Haiti. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
2
).
(B)
Eligibility.
In order to file a petition with USCIS under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii), the petitioner must:
(
1
) Comply with all other statutory and regulatory requirements for H-2B classification, including, but not limited to, requirements in this section, under part 103 of this chapter, and under 20 CFR part 655 and 29 CFR part 503; and
(
2
) Submit to USCIS, at the time the employer files its petition, a U.S. Department of Labor attestation, in compliance with this section and 20 CFR 655.65, evidencing that:
(
i
) Its business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii);
(
ii
) All workers requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2020, 2021,
or 2022, unless the H-2B worker is a national of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, or Haiti who is counted towards the 20,000 cap described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
2
) of this section;
(
iii
) The employer will comply with all Federal, State, and local employment-related laws and regulations, including, where applicable, health and safety laws and laws related to COVID-19 worker protections and any right to time off or paid time off for COVID-19 vaccination, or to reimbursement for travel to and from the nearest available vaccination site; and that the employer will notify any H-2B workers approved under the supplemental cap in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
2
) of this section, in a language understood by the worker as necessary or reasonable, that all persons in the United States, including nonimmigrants, have equal access to COVID-19 vaccines and vaccine distribution sites;
(
iv
) The employer will comply with obligations and additional recruitment requirements outlined in 20 CFR 655.65(a)(3) through (5);
(
v
) The employer will provide documentary evidence of the facts in paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iv
) of this section to DHS or DOL upon request; and
(
vi
) The employer will agree to fully cooperate with any compliance review, evaluation, verification, or inspection conducted by DHS, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with immigration laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2023 supplemental allocations outlined in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(B) of this section, as a condition for the approval of the petition.
(
vii
) The employer will fully cooperate with any audit, investigation, compliance review, evaluation, verification or inspection conducted by DOL, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2023 supplemental allocations outlined in 20 CFR 655.65(a) and 655.67(a), as a condition for the approval of the H-2B petition. The employer must attest to this on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-7 and must further attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-7 that it will not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority pursuant to 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(C)
Processing
—(
1
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(1)(i) requesting FY 2023 employment start dates on or before March 31, 2023.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
)(
i
) of this section requesting employment start dates on or before March 31, 2023 that are received after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2023.
(
2
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(1)(ii) requesting FY 2023 employment start dates from April 1, 2023 to May 14, 2023.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section requesting employment start dates from April 1, 2023 to May 14, 2023 that are received earlier than 15 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half FY 2023 has been met or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2023.
(
3
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(1)(iii) of this section requesting FY 2023 employment start dates from May 15, 2023 and September 30, 2023.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
)(
iii
) of this section requesting employment start dates from May 15, 2023 to September 30, 2023, that are received earlier than 45 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half FY 2023 has been met, or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2023.
(
4
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(2) of this section requesting nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras (Northern Central American countries), or Haiti with FY 2023 employment start dates.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
2
) of this section that have a date of need on or after April 1, 2023 and are received earlier than 15 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half of FY 2023 is met, or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2023.
(
5
) USCIS will not approve a petition filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiii) of this section on or after October 1, 2023.
(D)
Numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(1) and (2) of this section.
When calculating the numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section as authorized under Public Law 117-103, as extended by Public Law 117-180, USCIS will make numbers for each allocation available to petitions in the order in which the petitions subject to the respective limitation are received. USCIS will make projections of the number of petitions necessary to achieve the numerical limit of approvals, taking into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received (including the number of workers requested when necessary) and will notify the public of the dates that USCIS has received the necessary number of petitions (the “final receipt dates”) under paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section. The day the public is notified will not control the final receipt dates. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers subject to the numerical limitations in paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, USCIS may randomly select from among the petitions received on the final receipt dates the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to generate the numerical limit of approvals. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection. Petitions subject to a numerical limitation not randomly selected or that were received after the final receipt dates that may be applicable under paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section will be rejected. If the final receipt date is any of the first 5 business days on which petitions subject to the applicable numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section may be received (in other words, if either of the numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this section is reached on any one of the first 5 business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly apply all of the numbers among the petitions received on any of those 5 business days.
(E)
Sunset.
This paragraph (h)(6)(xiii) expires on October 1, 2023.
(F)
Non-severability.
The requirement to file an attestation under paragraph (h)(6)(xiii)(B)(
2
) of this section is intended to be non-severable from the remainder of paragraph (h)(6)(xiii), including, but not limited to, the numerical allocation provisions at paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section in their entirety. In the event that any part of this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii) is enjoined or held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii) is also intended to be enjoined or held to be invalid in such jurisdiction, without prejudice to workers already present in the United States under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiii), as consistent with law.
(xiv)
Special requirements for additional cap allocations under Public Laws 117-328 and 118-15
—(A)
Public Law 117-328 and section 101(6) of Division A of Public Law 118-15, Continuing Appropriations Act, 2024 and Other Extensions Act
—(
1
)
Supplemental allocation for returning workers.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2024 only, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 64,716 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant to section 303 of Division O of Public Law 117-328, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, and section 101(6) of Division A of Public Law 118-15, Continuing Appropriations Act, 2024 and Other Extensions Act. An alien may be
eligible to receive an H-2B nonimmigrant visa under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) if she or he is a returning worker. The term “returning worker” under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) means a person who was issued an H-2B visa or was otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2021, 2022, or 2023. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
). The additional H-2B visas authorized under this paragraph will be made available to returning workers as follows:
(
i
) Up to an additional 20,716 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas based on petitions requesting FY 2024 employment start dates on or before March 31, 2024.
(
ii
) Up to an additional 19,000 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas based on petitions requesting FY 2024 employment start dates from April 1, 2024 to May 14, 2024.
(
iii
) Up to an additional 5,000 visas available for aliens with employment start dates from May 15, 2024 to September 30, 2024.
(
2
)
Supplemental allocation for nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2024 only, and in addition to the allocation described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) of this section, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 20,000 visas for aliens who are nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica, who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant section 303 of Division O of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, Public Law 117-328, and section 101(6) of Division A of Public Law 118-15 Continuing Appropriations Act, 2024 and Other Extensions Act, based on petitions with FY 2024 employment start dates. Such workers are not subject to the returning worker requirement in paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
). Petitioners must request such workers in an H-2B petition that is separate from H-2B petitions that request returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) and must declare that they are requesting these workers in the attestation Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-8 required under 20 CFR 655.65(a)(1). A petition requesting returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
), which is accompanied by an attestation indicating that the petitioner is requesting nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica, will be rejected, denied or, in the case of a non-frivolous petition, approved solely for the number of beneficiaries that are from the Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
2
).
(B)
Eligibility.
In order to file a petition with USCIS under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv), the petitioner must:
(
1
) Comply with all other statutory and regulatory requirements for H-2B classification, including, but not limited to, requirements in this section, under part 103 of this chapter, and under 20 CFR part 655 and 29 CFR part 503; and
(
2
) Submit to USCIS, at the time the employer files its petition, a U.S. Department of Labor attestation, in compliance with this section and 20 CFR 655.64, evidencing that:
(
i
) Its business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv);
(
ii
) All workers requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2021, 2022, or 2023, unless the H-2B worker is a national of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica who is counted towards the 20,000 cap described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
2
) of this section;
(
iii
) The employer will comply with obligations and additional recruitment requirements outlined in 20 CFR 655.64(a)(3) through (5);
(
iv
) The employer will provide documentary evidence of the facts in paragraphs (h)(6)(xiv)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iii
)
of this section to DHS and/or DOL upon request; and
(
v
) The employer will agree to fully cooperate with any compliance review, evaluation, verification, or inspection conducted by DHS, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with immigration laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2024 supplemental allocations outlined in paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(B) of this section, as a condition for the approval of the petition.
(
vi
) The employer will fully cooperate with any audit, investigation, compliance review, evaluation, verification or inspection conducted by DOL, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2024 supplemental allocations outlined in 20 CFR 655.64(a) and 655.65(a), as a condition for the approval of the H-2B petition. The employer must attest to this on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-8 and must further attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-8 that it will not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority pursuant to 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(C)
Processing
—(
1
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(1)(i) requesting FY 2024 employment start dates on or before March 31, 2024.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
)(
i
) of this section requesting employment start dates on or before March 31, 2024 that are received after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 16, 2024.
(
2
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(1)(ii) of this section requesting FY 2024 employment start dates from April 1, 2024 to May 14, 2024.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section requesting employment start dates from April 1, 2024 to May 14, 2024 that are received earlier than 15 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half FY 2024 has been met, or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 16, 2024.
(
3
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(1)(iii) of this section requesting FY 2024 employment start dates from May 15, 2024 and September 30, 2024.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
)(
iii
) of this section requesting employment start dates from May 15, 2024 to September 30, 2024 that are received earlier than 45 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half FY 2024 has been met, or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 16, 2024.
(
4
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(2) requesting nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica with FY 2024 employment start dates.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
2
) of this section that have a date of need on or after April 1, 2024 and are received earlier than 15 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half of FY 2024 is met, or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 16, 2024.
(
5
) USCIS will not approve a petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv) on or after October 1, 2024.
(D)
Numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(1) and (2) of this section.
When calculating the numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section as authorized under Public Law 117-328, as extended by Public Law 118-15, USCIS will make numbers for each allocation available to petitions in the order in which the petitions subject to the respective limitation are received. USCIS will make projections of the number of petitions necessary to
achieve the numerical limit of approvals, taking into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received (including the number of workers requested when necessary) and will notify the public of the dates that USCIS has received the necessary number of petitions (the “final receipt dates”) under paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) or (
2
). The day the public is notified will not control the final receipt dates. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers subject to the numerical limitations in paragraphs (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
), USCIS may randomly select from among the petitions received on the final receipt dates the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to generate the numerical limit of approvals. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection. Petitions subject to a numerical limitation not randomly selected or that were received after the final receipt dates that may be applicable under paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) will be rejected. If the final receipt date is any of the first 5 business days on which petitions subject to the applicable numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) may be received (in other words, if either of the numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) is reached on any one of the first 5 business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly apply all of the numbers among the petitions received on any of those 5 business days.
(E)
Sunset.
This paragraph (h)(6)(xiv) expires on October 1, 2024.
(F)
Non-severability.
The requirement to file an attestation under paragraph (h)(6)(xiv)(B)(
2
) of this section is intended to be non-severable from the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv), including, but not limited to, the numerical allocation provisions at paragraphs (h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section in their entirety. In the event that any part of this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv) is enjoined or held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv) is also intended to be enjoined or held to be invalid in such jurisdiction, without prejudice to workers already present in the United States under this paragraph (h)(6)(xiv), as consistent with law.
(xv)
Special requirements for additional cap allocations under Public Laws 118-47 and 118-83
—(A)
Public Law 118-47 and sections 101(6) and 106, Division A, Title I of Public Law 118-83
—(
1
)
Supplemental allocation for returning workers.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2025 only, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 64,716 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant to section 105 of Division G, Title I of Public Law 118-47, the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024, and sections 101(6) and 106, Division A, Title I of the Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025, Public Law 118-83. An alien may be eligible to receive an H-2B nonimmigrant visa under this paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) if she or he is a returning worker. The term “returning worker” under this paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) means a person who was issued an H-2B visa or was otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2022, 2023, or 2024. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
). The additional H-2B visas authorized under this paragraph will be made available to returning workers as follows:
(
i
) Up to an additional 20,716 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas based on petitions requesting FY 2025 employment start dates on or before March 31, 2025.
(
ii
) Up to an additional 19,000 visas for aliens who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas based on petitions requesting FY 2025 employment start dates from April 1, 2025 to May 14, 2025.
(
iii
) Up to an additional 5,000 visas available for aliens with employment start dates from May 15, 2025 to September 30, 2025.
(
2
)
Supplemental allocation for nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica.
Notwithstanding the numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(8)(i)(C) of this section, for fiscal year 2025 only,
and in addition to the allocation described in paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) of this section, the Secretary has authorized up to an additional 20,000 visas for aliens who are nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica, who may receive H-2B nonimmigrant visas pursuant to section 105 of Division G, Title I of Public Law 118-47, the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024, and sections 101(6) and 106 of Division A, Title I of the Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025, Public Law 118-83, based on petitions with FY 2025 employment start dates. Such workers are not subject to the returning worker requirement in paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
). Petitioners must request such workers in an H-2B petition that is separate from H-2B petitions that request returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) and must declare that they are requesting these workers in the attestation Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-9 required under 20 CFR 655.68(a)(1). A petition requesting returning workers under paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
), which is accompanied by an attestation indicating that the petitioner is requesting nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica, will be rejected, denied or, in the case of a non-frivolous petition, approved solely for the number of beneficiaries that are from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica. Notwithstanding § 248.2 of this chapter, an alien may not change status to H-2B nonimmigrant under this paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
2
).
(B)
Eligibility.
In order to file a petition with USCIS under this paragraph (h)(6)(xv), the petitioner must:
(
1
) Comply with all other statutory and regulatory requirements for H-2B classification, including, but not limited to, requirements in this section, under part 103 of this chapter, and under 20 CFR part 655 and 29 CFR part 503; and
(
2
) Submit to USCIS, at the time the employer files its petition, a U.S. Department of Labor attestation, in compliance with this section and 20 CFR 655.64, evidencing that:
(
i
) Its business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xv);
(
ii
) All workers requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status in fiscal year 2022, 2023, or 2024, unless the H-2B worker is a national of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica who is counted towards the 20,000 cap described in paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
2
) of this section;
(
iii
) The employer will comply with obligations and additional recruitment requirements outlined in 20 CFR 655.64(a)(3) through (5);
(
iv
) The employer will provide documentary evidence of the facts in paragraphs (h)(6)(xv)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iii
) of this section to DHS and/or DOL upon request; and
(
v
) The employer will agree to fully cooperate with any compliance review, evaluation, verification, or inspection conducted by DHS, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with immigration laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2025 supplemental allocations outlined in paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(B) of this section, as a condition for the approval of the petition.
(
vi
) The employer will fully cooperate with any audit, investigation, compliance review, evaluation, verification or inspection conducted by DOL, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2025 supplemental allocations outlined in 20 CFR 655.64(a) and 655.68(a), as a condition for
the approval of the H-2B petition. The employer must attest to this on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-9 and must further attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-9 that it will not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority pursuant to 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(C)
Processing
—(
1
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(1)(i) of this section requesting FY 2025 employment start dates on or before March 31, 2025.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
)(
i
) of this section requesting employment start dates on or before March 31, 2025 that are received after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2025.
(
2
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(1)(ii) of this section requesting FY 2025 employment start dates from April 1, 2025 to May 14, 2025.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section requesting employment start dates from April 1, 2025 to May 14, 2025 that are received earlier than 15 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half FY 2024 has been met, or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2025.
(
3
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(1)(iii) of this section requesting FY 2025 employment start dates from May 15, 2025 and September 30, 2025.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
)(
iii
) of this section requesting employment start dates from May 15, 2025 to September 30, 2025 that are received earlier than 45 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half FY 2025 has been met, or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2025.
(
4
)
Petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(2) requesting nationals of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica with FY 2025 employment start dates.
USCIS will reject petitions filed pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
2
) of this section that have a date of need on or after April 1, 2025, and are received earlier than 15 days after the INA section 214(g) cap for the second half of FY 2025 is met, or after the applicable numerical limitation has been reached or after September 15, 2025.
(
5
) USCIS will not approve a petition filed pursuant to this paragraph (h)(6)(xv) on or after October 1, 2025.
(D)
Numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xv)(A)(1) and (2) of this section.
When calculating the numerical limitations under paragraphs (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section as authorized under section 105 of Division G, Title I of Public Law 118-47, the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024, and sections 101(6) and 106 of Division A, Title I of the Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025, Public Law 118-83, USCIS will make numbers for each allocation available to petitions in the order in which the petitions subject to the respective limitation are received. USCIS will make projections of the number of petitions necessary to achieve the numerical limit of approvals, taking into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received (including the number of workers requested when necessary) and will notify the public of the dates that USCIS has received the necessary number of petitions (the “final receipt dates”) under paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) or (
2
). The day the public is notified will not control the final receipt dates. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers subject to the numerical limitations in paragraphs (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
), USCIS may randomly select from among the petitions received on the final receipt dates the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to generate the numerical limit of approvals. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection. Petitions subject to a numerical limitation not randomly selected or that were received after the final receipt dates that may be applicable under paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) will be rejected. If the final receipt date is any of the first
5 business days on which petitions subject to the applicable numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) may be received (in other words, if either of the numerical limits described in paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) is reached on any one of the first 5 business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly apply all of the numbers among the petitions received on any of those 5 business days.
(E)
Sunset.
This paragraph (h)(6)(xv) expires on October 1, 2025.
(F)
Non-severability.
The requirement to file an attestation under paragraph (h)(6)(xv)(B)(
2
) of this section is intended to be non-severable from the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xv), including, but not limited to, the entirety of the numerical allocation provisions at paragraphs (h)(6)(xv)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section. In the event that any part of this paragraph (h)(6)(xv) is enjoined or held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this paragraph (h)(6)(xv) is also intended to be enjoined or held to be invalid in such jurisdiction, without prejudice to workers already present in the United States under this paragraph (h)(6)(xv), as consistent with law.
(7)
Petition for alien trainee or participant in a special education exchange visitor program (H-3)
—(i)
Alien trainee.
The H-3 trainee is a nonimmigrant who seeks to enter the United States at the invitation of an organization or individual for the purpose of receiving training in any field of endeavor, such as agriculture, commerce, communications, finance, government, transportation, or the professions, as well as training in a purely industrial establishment. This category shall not apply to physicians, who are statutorily ineligible to use H-3 classification in order to receive any type of graduate medical education or training.
(A)
Externs.
A hospital approved by the American Medical Association or the American Osteopathic Association for either an internship or residency program may petition to classify as an H-3 trainee a medical student attending a medical school abroad, if the alien will engage in employment as an extern during his/her medical school vacation.
(B)
Nurses.
A petitioner may seek H-3 classification for a nurse who is not H-1 if it can be established that there is a genuine need for the nurse to receive a brief period of training that is unavailable in the alien's native country and such training is designed to benefit the nurse and the overseas employer upon the nurse's return to the country of origin, if:
(
1
) The beneficiary has obtained a full and unrestricted license to practice professional nursing in the country where the beneficiary obtained a nursing education, or such education was obtained in the United States or Canada; and
(
2
) The petitioner provides a statement certifying that the beneficiary is fully qualified under the laws governing the place where the training will be received to engage in such training, and that under those laws the petitioner is authorized to give the beneficiary the desired training.
(ii)
Evidence required for petition involving alien trainee
—(A)
Conditions.
The petitioner is required to demonstrate that:
(
1
) The proposed training is not available in the alien's own country;
(
2
) The beneficiary will not be placed in a position which is in the normal operation of the business and in which citizens and resident workers are regularly employed;
(
3
) The beneficiary will not engage in productive employment unless such employment is incidental and necessary to the training; and
(
4
) The training will benefit the beneficiary in pursuing a career outside the United States.
(B)
Description of training program.
Each petition for a trainee must include a statement which:
(
1
) Describes the type of training and supervision to be given, and the structure of the training program;
(
2
) Sets forth the proportion of time that will be devoted to productive employment;
(
3
) Shows the number of hours that will be spent, respectively, in classroom instruction and in on-the-job training;
(
4
) Describes the career abroad for which the training will prepare the alien;
(
5
) Indicates the reasons why such training cannot be obtained in the alien's country and why it is necessary for the alien to be trained in the United States; and
(
6
) Indicates the source of any remuneration received by the trainee and any benefit which will accrue to the petitioner for providing the training.
(iii)
Restrictions on training program for alien trainee.
A training program may not be approved which:
(A) Deals in generalities with no fixed schedule, objectives, or means of evaluation;
(B) Is incompatible with the nature of the petitioner's business or enterprise;
(C) Is on behalf of a beneficiary who already possesses substantial training and expertise in the proposed field of training;
(D) Is in a field in which it is unlikely that the knowledge or skill will be used outside the United States;
(E) Will result in productive employment beyond that which is incidental and necessary to the training;
(F) Is designed to recruit and train aliens for the ultimate staffing of domestic operations in the United States;
(G) Does not establish that the petitioner has the physical plant and sufficiently trained manpower to provide the training specified; or
(H) Is designed to extend the total allowable period of practical training previously authorized a nonimmigrant student.
(iv)
Petition for participant in a special education exchange visitor program
—(A)
General Requirements.
(
1
) The H-3 participant in a special education training program must be coming to the United States to participate in a structured program which provides for practical training and experience in the education of children with physical, mental, or emotional disabilities.
(
2
) The petition must be filed by a facility which has professionally trained staff and a structured program for providing education to children with disabilities, and for providing training and hands-on experience to participants in the special education exchange visitor program.
(
3
) The requirements in this section for alien trainees shall not apply to petitions for participants in a special education exchange visitor program.
(B)
Evidence.
An H-3 petition for a participant in a special education exchange visitor program shall be accompanied by:
(
1
) A description of the training program and the facility's professional staff and details of the alien's participation in the training program (any custodial care of children must be incidental to the training), and
(
2
) Evidence that the alien participant is nearing completion of a baccalaureate or higher degree in special education, or already holds such a degree, or has extensive prior training and experience in teaching children with physical, mental, or emotional disabilities.
(8)
Numerical limits
—(i)
Limits on affected categories.
During each fiscal year, the total number of aliens who can be provided nonimmigrant classification is limited as follows:
(A) Aliens classified as H-1B nonimmigrants, excluding those involved in Department of Defense research and development projects or coproduction projects, may not exceed the limits identified in section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act.
(B) Aliens classified as H-1B nonimmigrants to work for DOD research and development projects or coproduction projects may not exceed 100 at any time.
(C) Aliens classified as H-2B nonimmigrants may not exceed 66,000.
(D) Aliens classified as H-3 nonimmigrant participants in a special education exchange visitor program may not exceed 50.
(E) Aliens classified as H-1C nonimmigrants may not exceed 500 in a fiscal year.
(ii)
Procedures.
(A) Each alien issued a visa or otherwise provided nonimmigrant status under sections 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b), 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(c), or 101(a)(15)(H)(ii) of the Act shall be counted for purposes of any applicable numerical limit, unless otherwise exempt from such numerical limit. Requests for petition extension or extension of an alien's stay shall not be counted for the purpose of the numerical limit. The spouse and children of principal H aliens are classified as H-4
nonimmigrants and shall not be counted against numerical limits applicable to principals.
(B) When an approved petition is not used because the beneficiary(ies) does not apply for admission to the United States, the petitioner shall notify the Service Center Director who approved the petition that the number(s) has not been used. The petition shall be revoked pursuant to paragraph (h)(11)(ii) of this section and USCIS will take into account the unused number during the appropriate fiscal year.
(C) If the total numbers available in a fiscal year are used, new petitions and the accompanying fee shall be rejected and returned with a notice that numbers are unavailable for the particular nonimmigrant classification until the beginning of the next fiscal year. Petitions received after the total numbers available in a fiscal year are used stating that the alien beneficiaries are exempt from the numerical limitation will be denied and filing fees will not be returned or refunded if USCIS later determines that such beneficiaries are subject to the numerical limitation.
(iii)
H-1B numerical limitations
—(A)
Registration
—(
1
)
Registration requirement.
Except as provided in paragraph (h)(8)(iv) of this section, before a petitioner can file an H-1B cap-subject petition for a beneficiary who may be counted under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act (“H-1B regular cap”) or eligible for exemption under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act (“H-1B advanced degree exemption”), the petitioner must register to file a petition on behalf of a beneficiary electronically through the USCIS website (
www.uscis.gov
). To be eligible to file a petition for a beneficiary who may be counted against the H-1B regular cap or the H-1B advanced degree exemption for a particular fiscal year, a registration must be properly submitted in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(a)(1), paragraph (h)(8)(iii) of this section, and the form instructions, for the same fiscal year.
(
2
)
Limitation on beneficiaries.
A prospective petitioner must electronically submit a separate registration for each beneficiary it seeks to register, and each beneficiary must be named. A petitioner may only submit one registration per beneficiary in any fiscal year. If a petitioner submits more than one registration per beneficiary in the same fiscal year, all registrations filed by that petitioner relating to that beneficiary for that fiscal year may be considered invalid, and USCIS may deny or revoke the approval of any H-1B petition filed for the beneficiary based on those registrations. If USCIS determines that registrations were submitted for the same beneficiary by the same or different registrants, but using different identifying information, USCIS may find those registrations invalid and deny or revoke the approval of any H-1B petition filed based on those registrations. Petitioners will be given notice and the opportunity to respond before USCIS denies or revokes the approval of a petition.
(
3
)
Initial registration period.
The annual initial registration period will last a minimum of 14 calendar days and will start at least 14 calendar days before the earliest date on which H-1B cap-subject petitions may be filed for a particular fiscal year, consistent with paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I) of this section. USCIS will announce the start and end dates of the initial registration period on the USCIS website at
www.uscis.gov
for each fiscal year. USCIS will announce the start of the initial registration period at least 30 calendar days in advance of such date.
(
4
)
Selecting registrations based on unique beneficiaries.
Registrations will be counted based on the number of unique beneficiaries who are registered. USCIS will separately notify each registrant that their registration on behalf of a beneficiary has been selected, and that the petitioner(s) may file a petition(s) for that beneficiary. A petitioner may file an H-1B cap-subject petition on behalf of a registered beneficiary only after their properly submitted registration for that beneficiary has been selected for that fiscal year.
(
i
) Should a random selection be necessary, as provided in paragraphs (h)(8)(iii)(A)(
5
)(
ii
), (h)(8)(iii)(A)(
6
)(
ii
), and (h)(8)(iii)(A)(
7
) of this section, each unique beneficiary will only be counted once towards the random selection of registrations, regardless of how many
registrations were submitted for that beneficiary.
(
ii
) Registrations must include the beneficiary's valid passport information or valid travel document information, as specified in the form instructions. Each beneficiary must only be registered under one passport or travel document, and if or when the beneficiary is abroad, the passport information or travel document information must correspond to the passport or travel document the beneficiary intends to use to enter the United States.
(
5
)
Regular cap selection.
In determining whether there are enough registrations for unique beneficiaries to meet the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will consider all properly submitted registrations relating to beneficiaries that may be counted under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, including those that may also be eligible for exemption under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act. Registrations will be counted based on the number of unique beneficiaries that are registered.
(
i
)
Fewer registrations than needed to meet the H-1B regular cap.
At the end of the annual initial registration period, if USCIS determines that it has received fewer registrations for unique beneficiaries than needed to meet the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will notify all petitioners that have properly registered that their registrations have been selected. USCIS will keep the registration period open beyond the initial registration period, until it determines that it has received a sufficient number of registrations for unique beneficiaries to meet the H-1B regular cap. Once USCIS has received a sufficient number of registrations for unique beneficiaries to meet the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will no longer accept registrations for petitions subject to the H-1B regular cap under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act. USCIS will monitor the number of registrations received and will notify the public of the date that USCIS has received the necessary number of registrations for unique beneficiaries (the “final registration date”). The day the public is notified will not control the applicable final registration date. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, USCIS may randomly select the remaining number of registrations for unique beneficiaries deemed necessary to meet the H-1B regular cap from among the registrations received on the final registration date. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection, based on the unique beneficiary.
(
ii
)
Sufficient registrations to meet the H-1B regular cap during initial registration period.
At the end of the initial registration period, if USCIS determines that it has received more than sufficient registrations for unique beneficiaries to meet the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will no longer accept registrations under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act and will notify the public of the final registration date. USCIS will randomly select from among the registrations properly submitted during the initial registration period the number of registrations for unique beneficiaries deemed necessary to meet the H-1B regular cap. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection, based on the unique beneficiary.
(
6
)
Advanced degree exemption selection.
After USCIS has determined it will no longer accept registrations under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, USCIS will determine whether there is a sufficient number of remaining registrations to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption.
(
i
)
Fewer registrations than needed to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation.
If USCIS determines that it has received fewer registrations for unique beneficiaries than needed to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation, USCIS will notify all petitioners that have properly registered that their registrations have been selected. USCIS will continue to accept registrations to file petitions for beneficiaries that may be eligible for the H-1B advanced degree exemption under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act until USCIS determines that it has received enough registrations for unique beneficiaries to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation. USCIS will monitor the number of registrations received and will notify the public of the date that USCIS has received
the necessary number of registrations for unique beneficiaries (the “final registration date”). The day the public is notified will not control the applicable final registration date. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers under sections 214(g)(1)(A) and 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act, USCIS may randomly select the remaining number of registrations for unique beneficiaries deemed necessary to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation from among the registrations properly submitted on the final registration date. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection, based on the unique beneficiary.
(
ii
)
Sufficient registrations to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation.
If USCIS determines that it has received more than enough registrations for unique beneficiaries to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation, USCIS will no longer accept registrations that may be eligible for exemption under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act and will notify the public of the final registration date. USCIS will randomly select the number of registrations for unique beneficiaries needed to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation from among the remaining registrations for unique beneficiaries who may be counted against the advanced degree exemption numerical limitation. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection, based on the unique beneficiary.
(
7
)
Increase to the number of beneficiaries projected to meet the H-1B regular cap or advanced degree exemption allocations in a fiscal year.
Unselected registrations will remain on reserve for the applicable fiscal year. If USCIS determines that it needs to increase the number of registrations for unique beneficiaries projected to meet the H-1B regular cap or advanced degree exemption allocation, and select additional registrations for unique beneficiaries, USCIS will select from among the registrations that are on reserve a sufficient number to meet the H-1B regular cap or advanced degree exemption numerical limitation, as applicable. If all of the registrations on reserve are selected and there are still fewer registrations than needed to meet the H-1B regular cap or advanced degree exemption numerical limitation, as applicable, USCIS may reopen the applicable registration period until USCIS determines that it has received a sufficient number of registrations for unique beneficiaries projected as needed to meet the H-1B regular cap or advanced degree exemption numerical limitation. USCIS will monitor the number of registrations received and will notify the public of the date that USCIS has received the necessary number of registrations (the new “final registration date”). The day the public is notified will not control the applicable final registration date. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers, USCIS may randomly select the remaining number of registrations for unique beneficiaries deemed necessary to meet the H-1B regular cap or advanced degree exemption numerical limitation from among the registrations properly submitted on the final registration date. If the registration period will be reopened, USCIS will announce the start of the re-opened registration period on the USCIS website at
www.uscis.gov.
(B)
Confirmation.
Petitioners will receive electronic notification that USCIS has accepted a registration for processing.
(C)
Notification to file H-1B cap-subject petitions.
USCIS will notify all petitioners with selected registrations that the petitioner is eligible to file an H-1B cap-subject petition on behalf of the beneficiary named in the notice within the filing period indicated on the notice.
(D)
H-1B cap-subject petition filing following registration
—(
1
)
Filing procedures.
In addition to any other applicable requirements, a petitioner may file an H-1B petition for a beneficiary who may be counted under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act or eligible for exemption under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act only if the petition is based on a valid registration, which means that the registration was properly submitted in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(a)(1), paragraph (h)(8)(iii) of this section, and the registration tool instructions; and was submitted by the petitioner, or its designated representative, on behalf of the
beneficiary who was selected for that cap season by USCIS. A petitioner may not substitute the beneficiary named in the original registration or transfer the registration to another petitioner. Any H-1B petition filed on behalf of a beneficiary must contain and be supported by the same identifying information provided in the selected registration. Petitioners must submit evidence of the passport or travel document used at the time of registration to identify the beneficiary. In its discretion, USCIS may find that a change in identifying information in some circumstances would be permissible. Such circumstances could include, but are not limited to, a legal name change due to marriage, change in gender identity, or a change in passport number or expiration date due to renewal or replacement of a stolen passport, in between the time of registration and filing the petition. USCIS may deny or revoke the approval of an H-1B petition that does not meet these requirements.
(
2
)
Registration fee.
USCIS may deny or revoke the approval of an H-1B petition if it determines that the fee associated with the registration is declined, not reconciled, disputed, or otherwise invalid after submission. The registration fee is non-refundable and due at the time the registration is submitted.
(
3
)
Filing period.
An H-1B cap-subject petition must be properly filed within the filing period indicated on the relevant selection notice. The filing period for filing the H-1B cap-subject petition will be at least 90 days. If petitioners do not meet the requirements of this paragraph (h)(8)(iii)(D), USCIS may deny or reject the H-1B cap-subject petition.
(E)
Calculating the number of registrations needed to meet the H-1B regular cap and H-1B advanced degree exemption allocation.
When calculating the number of registrations for unique beneficiaries needed to meet the H-1B regular cap and the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation for a given fiscal year, USCIS will take into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. If necessary, USCIS may increase those numbers throughout the fiscal year.
(F)
Cap exemptions under sections 214(g)(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
An alien is not subject to the numerical limitations identified in section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act if the alien qualifies for an exemption under section 214(g)(5) of the Act. For purposes of section 214(g)(5)(A) and (B) of the Act:
(
1
) “Institution of higher education” has the same definition as described at section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
(
2
) A nonprofit entity shall be considered to be related to or affiliated with an institution of higher education if it satisfies any one of the following conditions:
(
i
) The nonprofit entity is connected to or associated with an institution of higher education through shared ownership or control by the same board or federation;
(
ii
) The nonprofit entity is operated by an institution of higher education;
(
iii
) The nonprofit entity is attached to an institution of higher education as a member, branch, cooperative, or subsidiary; or
(
iv
) The nonprofit entity has entered into a formal written affiliation agreement with an institution of higher education that establishes an active working relationship between the nonprofit entity and the institution of higher education for the purposes of research or education, and a fundamental activity of the nonprofit entity is to directly contribute to the research or education mission of the institution of higher education.
(
3
) An entity is considered a “nonprofit entity” if it meets the definition described at paragraph (h)(19)(iv) of this section. “Nonprofit research organization” and “governmental research organization” have the same definitions as described at paragraph (h)(19)(iii)(C) of this section.
(
4
) An H-1B beneficiary who is not directly employed by a qualifying institution, organization or entity identified in section 214(g)(5)(A) or (B) of the Act shall qualify for an exemption under such section if the H-1B beneficiary will spend the majority of his or her work time performing job duties at a qualifying institution, organization or entity and those job duties directly
and predominately further the essential purpose, mission, objectives or functions of the qualifying institution, organization or entity, namely, either higher education, nonprofit research or government research. The burden is on the H-1B petitioner to establish that there is a nexus between the duties to be performed by the H-1B beneficiary and the essential purpose, mission, objectives or functions of the qualifying institution, organization or entity.
(
5
) If cap-exempt employment ceases, and if the alien is not the beneficiary of a new cap-exempt petition, then the alien will be subject to the cap if not previously counted within the 6-year period of authorized admission to which the cap-exempt employment applied. If cap-exempt employment converts to cap-subject employment subject to the numerical limitations in section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, USCIS may revoke the petition authorizing such employment consistent with paragraph (h)(11)(iii) of this section.
(
6
) Concurrent H-1B employment in a cap-subject position of an alien that qualifies for an exemption under section 214(g)(5)(A) or (B) of the Act shall not subject the alien to the numerical limitations in section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act. When petitioning for concurrent cap-subject H-1B employment, the petitioner must demonstrate that the H-1B beneficiary is employed in valid H-1B status under a cap exemption under section 214(g)(5)(A) or (B) of the Act, the beneficiary's employment with the cap-exempt employer is expected to continue after the new cap-subject petition is approved, and the beneficiary can reasonably and concurrently perform the work described in each employer's respective positions.
(
i
) Validity of a petition for concurrent cap-subject H-1B employment approved under paragraph (h)(8)(iii)(F)(
6
) of this section cannot extend beyond the period of validity specified for the cap-exempt H-1B employment.
(
ii
) If H-1B employment subject to a cap exemption under section 214(g)(5)(A) or (B) of the Act is terminated by a petitioner, or otherwise ends before the end of the validity period listed on the approved petition filed on the alien's behalf, the alien who is concurrently employed in a cap-subject position becomes subject to the numerical limitations in section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, unless the alien was previously counted with respect to the 6-year period of authorized H-1B admission to which the petition applies or another exemption applies. If such an alien becomes subject to the numerical limitations in section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, USCIS may revoke the cap-subject petition described in paragraph (h)(8)(iii)(F)(
6
) of this section consistent with paragraph (h)(11)(iii) of this section.
(iv)
Suspension of registration requirement
—(A)
Determination to suspend registration requirement.
USCIS may suspend the H-1B registration requirement, in its discretion, if it determines that the registration process is inoperable for any reason. If USCIS suspends the registration requirement, USCIS will make an announcement of the suspension on its website (
http://www.uscis.gov
) along with the opening date of the applicable H-1B cap-subject petition-filing period.
(B)
Petition-based cap-subject selections in event of suspended registration process.
In any year in which USCIS suspends the H-1B registration process for cap-subject petitions, USCIS will allow for the submission of H-1B petitions notwithstanding paragraph (h)(8)(iii) of this section and conduct a cap-subject selection process based on the petitions that are received. USCIS will deny petitions indicating that they are exempt from the H-1B regular cap and the H-1B advanced degree exemption if USCIS determines, after the final receipt date, that they are not eligible for the exemption sought. If USCIS determines, on or before the final receipt date, that the petition is not eligible for the exemption sought, USCIS may consider the petition under the applicable numerical allocation and proceed with processing of the petition. If a petition is denied under this paragraph (h)(8)(iv)(B), USCIS will not return or refund filing fees.
(
1
)
H-1B regular cap selection in event of suspended registration process.
In determining whether there are enough H-1B cap-subject petitions to meet the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will consider all
petitions properly submitted in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2 relating to beneficiaries that may be counted under section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act, including those that may be eligible for exemption under section 214(g)(5)(C) of the Act. When calculating the number of petitions needed to meet the H-1B regular cap USCIS will take into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received and will announce on its website the date that it receives the number of petitions projected as needed to meet the H-1B regular cap (the “final receipt date”). The date the announcement is posted will not control the final receipt date. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers under the H-1B regular cap, USCIS may randomly select via computer-generated selection the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to meet the H-1B regular cap from among the petitions properly submitted on the final receipt date. If the final receipt date is any of the first five business days on which petitions subject to the H-1B regular cap may be received (
i.e.,
if the cap is reached on any one of the first five business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly select from among all the petitions properly submitted during the first five business days the number of petitions deemed necessary to meet the H-1B regular cap. After any random selection under this paragraph (h)(8)(iv)(B)(
1
), petitions that are subject to the H-1B regular cap and that do not qualify for the H-1B advanced degree exemption will be rejected if they are not randomly selected or were received after the final receipt date.
(
2
)
Advanced degree exemption selection in event of suspended registration process.
After USCIS has received a sufficient number of petitions to meet the H-1B regular cap and, as applicable, completed the random selection process of petitions for the H-1B regular cap, USCIS will determine whether there is a sufficient number of remaining petitions to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation. When calculating the number of petitions needed to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation USCIS will take into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions received and will announce on its website the date that it receives the number of petitions projected as needed to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation (the “final receipt date”). The date the announcement is posted will not control the final receipt date. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers under the H-1B advanced degree exemption, USCIS may randomly select via computer-generated selection the remaining number of petitions deemed necessary to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation from among the petitions properly submitted on the final receipt date. If the final receipt date is any of the first five business days on which petitions subject to the H-1B advanced degree exemption may be received (
i.e.,
if the numerical limitation is reached on any one of the first five business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly select from among all the petitions properly submitted during the first five business days the number of petitions deemed necessary to meet the H-1B advanced degree exemption numerical limitation. After any random selection under this paragraph (h)(8)(iv)(B)(
2
), petitions that are not randomly selected or that were received after the final receipt date will be rejected.
(v)
Severability.
(A) The requirement to submit a registration for an H-1B cap-subject petition and the selection process based on properly submitted registrations under paragraph (h)(8)(iii) of this section are intended to be severable from paragraph (h)(8)(iv) of this section. In the event paragraph (h)(8)(iii) of this section is not implemented, or in the event that paragraph (h)(8)(iv) of this section is not implemented, DHS intends that either of those provisions be implemented as an independent rule, without prejudice to petitioners in the United States under this regulation, as consistent with law.
(B) DHS intends that the provisions governing the beneficiary centric selection process in paragraph (h)(8)(iii) of this section, the elimination of the requirement that the requested start date for the beneficiary be the first day for the applicable fiscal year in (h)(8)(iii)(A)(
4
), and the provisions governing the denial or revocation of H-1B petitions based on inaccurate, fraudulent, or misrepresented material facts in the H-1B petition, H-1B registration, temporary labor certification, or labor condition application in paragraphs (h)(10)(ii) and (iii) and (h)(11)(iii) of this section, respectively, published on February 2, 2024 be severable from one another. In the event that any of these provision(s) is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, it should be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision(s) permitted by law, unless any such provision is held to be wholly invalid and unenforceable, in which event the provision(s) should be severed from the remainder of this section and the holding should not affect the remainder of this section or the application of the other provisions to persons not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances.
(vi)
H-1C numerical limitations.
The 500 H-1C nonimmigrant visas issued each fiscal year shall be allocated in the following manner:
(A) For each fiscal year, the number of visas issued to the states of California, Florida, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Texas shall not exceed 50 each (except as provided for in paragraph (h)(8)(vi)(C) of this section).
(B) For each fiscal year, the number of visas issued to the states not listed in paragraph (h)(8)(vi)(A) of this section shall not exceed 25 each (except as provided for in paragraph (h)(8)(vi)(C) of this section).
(C) If the total number of visas available during the first three quarters of a fiscal year exceeds the number of approvable H-1C petitions during those quarters, visas may be issued during the last quarter of the fiscal year to nurses who will be working in a state whose cap has already been reached for that fiscal year.
(D) When an approved H-1C petition is not used because the alien(s) does not obtain H-1C classification, e.g., the alien is never admitted to the United States, or the alien never worked for the facility, the facility must notify the Service according to the instructions contained in paragraph (h)(11)(ii) of this section. The Service will subtract H-1C petitions approved in the current fiscal year that are later revoked from the total count of approved H-1C petitions, provided that the alien never commenced employment with the facility.
(E) If the number of alien nurses included in an H-1C petition exceeds the number available for the remainder of a fiscal year, the Service shall approve the petition for the beneficiaries to the allowable amount in the order that they are listed on the petition. The remaining beneficiaries will be considered for approval in the subsequent fiscal year.
(F) Once the 500 cap has been reached, the Service will reject any new petitions subsequently filed requesting a work start date prior to the first day of the next fiscal year.
(vii)
H-2B numerical limitations.
When calculating the numerical limitations under section 214(g)(1)(B) and 214(g)(10) of the Act for a given fiscal year, USCIS will make numbers available to petitions in the order in which the petitions are filed. USCIS will make projections of the number of petitions necessary to achieve the numerical limit of approvals, taking into account historical data related to approvals, denials, revocations, and other relevant factors. USCIS will monitor the number of petitions (including the number of beneficiaries requested when necessary) received and will notify the public of the date that USCIS has received the necessary number of petitions (the “final receipt date”). The day the public is notified will not control the final receipt date. When necessary to ensure the fair and orderly allocation of numbers subject to the numerical limitations in 214(g)(1)(B) and 214(g)(10) of the Act, USCIS may randomly select from among the petitions received on the final receipt date the remaining number of petitions
deemed necessary to generate the numerical limit of approvals. This random selection will be made via computer-generated selection. Petitions subject to a numerical limitation not randomly selected or that were received after the final receipt date will be rejected. Petitions indicating that they are exempt from the numerical limitation but that are determined by USCIS after the final receipt date to be subject to the numerical limit will be denied and filing fees will not be returned or refunded. If the final receipt date is any of the first five business days on which petitions subject to the applicable numerical limit may be received (
i.e.,
if the numerical limit is reached on any one of the first five business days that filings can be made), USCIS will randomly apply all of the numbers among the petitions received on any of those five business days.
(9)
Approval and validity of petition
—(i)
Approval.
USCIS will consider all the evidence submitted and any other evidence independently required to assist in adjudication. USCIS will notify the petitioner of the approval of the petition on a Notice of Action. The approval notice will include the beneficiary's (or beneficiaries') name(s) and classification and the petition's period of validity. A petition for more than one beneficiary and/or multiple services may be approved in whole or in part. The approval notice will cover only those beneficiaries approved for classification under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act.
(ii)
Recording the validity of petitions.
Procedures for recording the validity period of petitions are:
(A) If a new H petition is approved before the date the petitioner indicates that the services or training will begin, the approved petition and approval notice shall show the actual dates requested by the petitioner as the validity period, not to exceed the limits specified by paragraph (h)(9)(iii) of this section or other Service policy.
(B) If a new H petition is approved after the date the petitioner indicates that the services or training will begin, the approved petition and approval notice shall show a validity period commencing with the date of approval and ending with the date requested by the petitioner, as long as that date does not exceed either the limits specified by paragraph (h)(9)(iii) of this section or other Service policy.
(C) If the period of services or training requested by the petitioner exceeds the limit specified in paragraph (h)(9)(iii) of this section, the petition shall be approved only up to the limit specified in that paragraph.
(iii)
Validity.
The initial approval period of an H petition shall conform to the limits prescribed as follows:
(A)(
1
)
H-1B petition in a specialty occupation.
An approved petition classified under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Act for an alien in a specialty occupation shall be valid for a period of up to three years but may not exceed the validity period of the labor condition application.
(
2
)
H-1B petition involving a DOD research and development or coproduction project.
An approved petition classified under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Act for an alien involved in a DOD research and development project or a coproduction project shall be valid for a period of up to five years.
(
3
)
H-1B petition involving an alien of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling.
An approved petition classified under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Act for an alien of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling shall be valid for a period of up to three years.
(B)
H-2B petition.
The approval of the petition to accord an alien a classification under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of the Act shall be valid for the period of the approved temporary labor certification.
(C)(
1
)
H-3 petition for alien trainee.
An approved petition for an alien trainee classified under section 101(a)(15)(H)(iii) of the Act shall be valid for a period of up to two years.
(
2
)
H-3 petition for alien participant in a special education training program.
An approved petition for an alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(H)(iii) of the Act as a participant in a special education exchange visitor program shall be valid for a period of up to 18 months.
(D)
H-1C petition for a registered nurse.
An approved petition for an alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(c) of
the Act shall be valid for a period of 3 years.
(iv)
H-4 dependents.
The spouse and children of an H nonimmigrant, if they are accompanying or following to join such H nonimmigrant in the United States, may be admitted, if otherwise admissible, as H-4 nonimmigrants for the same period of admission or extension as the principal spouse or parent. H-4 nonimmigrant status does not confer eligibility for employment authorization incident to status. An H-4 nonimmigrant spouse of an H-1B nonimmigrant may be eligible for employment authorization only if the H-1B nonimmigrant is the beneficiary of an approved Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, or successor form, or the H-1B nonimmigrant's period of stay in H-1B status is authorized in the United States under sections 106(a) and (b) of the American Competitiveness in the Twenty-first Century Act of 2000 (AC21), Public Law 106-313, as amended by the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, Public Law 107-273 (2002). To request employment authorization, an eligible H-4 nonimmigrant spouse must file an Application for Employment Authorization, or a successor form, in accordance with 8 CFR 274a.13 and the form instructions. An Application for Employment Authorization must be accompanied by documentary evidence establishing eligibility, including evidence of the spousal relationship and that the principal H-1B is the beneficiary of an approved Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker or has been provided H-1B status under sections 106(a) and (b) of AC21, as amended by the 21st Century Department of Justice Appropriations Authorization Act, the H-1B beneficiary is currently in H-1B status, and the H-4 nonimmigrant spouse is currently in H-4 status.
(10)
Denial of petition
—(i)
Multiple beneficiaries.
A petition for multiple beneficiaries may be denied in whole or in part.
(ii)
Denial for statement of facts on the petition, H-1B registration, temporary labor certification, labor condition application, or invalid H-1B registration.
The petition will be denied if it is determined that the statements on the petition, H-1B registration (if applicable), the application for a temporary labor certification, or the labor condition application, were inaccurate, fraudulent, or misrepresented a material fact, including if the attestations on the registration are determined to be false. An H-1B cap-subject petition also will be denied if it is not based on a valid registration submitted by the petitioner (or its designated representative), or a successor in interest, for the beneficiary named or identified in the petition.
(iii)
Notice of denial.
The petitioner will be notified of the reasons for the denial and of the right to appeal the denial of the petition under 8 CFR part 103. There is no appeal from a decision to deny an extension of stay to the alien.
(11)
Revocation of approval of petition
—(i)
General.
(A) The petitioner shall immediately notify the Service of any changes in the terms and conditions of employment of a beneficiary which may affect eligibility under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act and paragraph (h) of this section. An amended petition on the form prescribed by USCIS should be filed when the petitioner continues to employ the beneficiary. If the petitioner no longer employs the beneficiary, the petitioner shall send a letter explaining the change(s) to the director who approved the petition. However, H-2A and H-2B petitioners must send notification to DHS pursuant to paragraphs (h)(5)(vi) and (h)(6)(i)(F) of this section respectively.
(B) The director may revoke a petition at any time, even after the expiration of the petition.
(ii)
Immediate and automatic revocation.
The approval of any petition is immediately and automatically revoked if the petitioner goes out of business, files a written withdrawal of the petition, or the Department of Labor revokes the labor certification upon which the petition is based.
(iii)
Revocation on notice
—(A)
Grounds for revocation.
The director shall send to the petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the petition in relevant part if he or she finds that:
(
1
) The beneficiary is no longer employed by the petitioner in the capacity specified in the petition, or if the
beneficiary is no longer receiving training as specified in the petition; or
(
2
) The statement of facts contained in the petition, H-1B registration (if applicable), the application for a temporary labor certification, or the labor condition application, was not true and correct, inaccurate, fraudulent, or misrepresented a material fact, including if the attestations on the registration are determined to be false; or
(
3
) The petitioner violated terms and conditions of the approved petition; or
(
4
) The petitioner violated requirements of section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act or paragraph (h) of this section; or
(
5
) The approval of the petition violated paragraph (h) of this section or involved gross error; or
(
6
) The H-1B cap-subject petition was not based on a valid registration submitted by the petitioner (or its designated representative), or a successor in interest, for the beneficiary named or identified in the petition.
(B)
Notice and decision.
The notice of intent to revoke shall contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation and the time period allowed for the petitioner's rebuttal. The petitioner may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The director shall consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to revoke the petition in whole or in part. If the petition is revoked in part, the remainder of the petition shall remain approved and a revised approval notice shall be sent to the petitioner with the revocation notice.
(12)
Appeal of a denial or a revocation of a petition
—(i)
Denial.
A petition denied in whole or in part may be appealed under part 103 of this chapter.
(ii)
Revocation.
A petition that has been revoked on notice in whole or in part may be appealed under part 103 of this chapter. Automatic revocations may not be appealed.
(13)
Admission
—(i)
General.
(A) Except as set forth in 8 CFR 214.1(l) with respect to H-1B beneficiaries and their dependents and paragraph (h)(5)(viii)(B) of this section with respect to H-2A beneficiaries, a beneficiary shall be admitted to the United States for the validity period of the petition, plus a period of up to 10 days before the validity period begins and 10 days after the validity period ends. The beneficiary may not work except during the validity period of the petition.
(B) When an alien in an H classification has spent the maximum allowable period of stay in the United States, a new petition under sections 101(a)(15)(H) or (L) of the Act may not be approved unless that alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States, except for brief trips for business or pleasure, for the time limit imposed on the particular H classification. Brief trips to the United States for business or pleasure during the required time abroad are not interruptive, but do not count towards fulfillment of the required time abroad. A certain period of absence from the United States of H-2A and H-2B aliens can interrupt the accrual of time spent in such status against the 3-year limit set forth in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(13)(iv). The petitioner shall provide information about the alien's employment, place of residence, and the dates and purposes of any trips to the United States during the period that the alien was required to reside abroad.
(ii)
H-1C limitation on admission.
The maximum period of admission for an H-1C nonimmigrant alien is 3 years. The maximum period of admission for an H-1C alien begins on the date the H-1C alien is admitted to the United and ends on the third anniversary of the alien's admission date. Periods of time spent out of the United States for business or personal reasons during the validity period of the H-1C petition count towards the alien's maximum period of admission. When an H-1C alien has reached the 3-year maximum period of admission, the H-1C alien is no longer eligible for admission to the United States as an H-1C nonimmigrant alien.
(iii)
H-1B limitation on admission
—(A)
Alien in a specialty occupation or an alien of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling.
An H-1B alien in a specialty occupation or an alien of distinguished merit and ability who has spent six years in the United States under section 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act may not seek extension, change status, or be readmitted to the United States under section 101(a)(15) (H) or (L) of the Act unless
the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States, except for brief trips for business or pleasure, for the immediate prior year.
(B)
Alien involved in a DOD research and development or coproduction project.
An H-1B alien involved in a DOD research and development or coproduction project who has spent 10 years in the United States under section 101(a)(15) (H) and/or (L) of the Act may not seek extension, change status, or be readmitted to the United States under section 101(a)(15) (H) or (L) of the Act to perform services involving a DOD research and development project or coproduction project. A new petition or change of status under section 101(a)(15) (H) or (L) of the Act may not be approved for such an alien unless the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States, except for brief trips for business or pleasure, for the immediate prior year.
(C)
Calculating the maximum H-1B admission period.
Time spent physically outside the United States exceeding 24 hours by an alien during the validity of an H-1B petition that was approved on the alien's behalf shall not be considered for purposes of calculating the alien's total period of authorized admission under section 214(g)(4) of the Act, regardless of whether such time meaningfully interrupts the alien's stay in H-1B status and the reason for the alien's absence. Accordingly, such remaining time may be recaptured in a subsequent H-1B petition on behalf of the alien, at any time before the alien uses the full period of H-1B admission described in section 214(g)(4) of the Act.
(
1
) It is the H-1B petitioner's burden to request and demonstrate the specific amount of time for recapture on behalf of the beneficiary. The beneficiary may provide appropriate evidence, such as copies of passport stamps, Arrival-Departure Records (Form I-94), or airline tickets, together with a chart, indicating the dates spent outside of the United States, and referencing the relevant independent documentary evidence, when seeking to recapture the alien's time spent outside the United States. Based on the evidence provided, USCIS may grant all, part, or none of the recapture period requested.
(
2
) If the beneficiary was previously counted toward the H-1B numerical cap under section 214(g)(1) of the Act with respect to the 6-year maximum period of H-1B admission from which recapture is sought, the H-1B petition seeking to recapture a period of stay as an H-1B nonimmigrant will not subject the beneficiary to the H-1B numerical cap, whether or not the alien has been physically outside the United States for 1 year or more and would be otherwise eligible for a new period of admission under such section of the Act. An H-1B petitioner may either seek such recapture on behalf of the alien or, consistent with paragraph (h)(13)(iii) of this section, seek a new period of admission on behalf of the alien under section 214(g)(1) of the Act.
(D)
Lengthy adjudication delay exemption from 214(g)(4) of the Act.
(
1
) An alien who is in H-1B status or has previously held H-1B status is eligible for H-1B status beyond the 6-year limitation under section 214(g)(4) of the Act, if at least 365 days have elapsed since:
(
i
) The filing of a labor certification with the Department of Labor on the alien's behalf, if such certification is required for the alien to obtain status under section 203(b) of the Act; or
(
ii
) The filing of an immigrant visa petition with USCIS on the alien's behalf to accord classification under section 203(b) of the Act.
(
2
) H-1B approvals under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(D) of this section may be granted in up to 1-year increments until either the approved permanent labor certification expires or a final decision has been made to:
(
i
) Deny the application for permanent labor certification, or, if approved, to revoke or invalidate such approval;
(
ii
) Deny the immigrant visa petition, or, if approved, revoke such approval;
(
iii
) Deny or approve the alien's application for an immigrant visa or application to adjust status to lawful permanent residence; or
(
iv
) Administratively or otherwise close the application for permanent labor certification, immigrant visa petition, or application to adjust status.
(
3
)
No final decision while appeal available or pending.
A decision to deny or revoke an application for labor certification, or to deny or revoke the approval of an immigrant visa petition, will not be considered final under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(D)(
2
)(
i
) or (
ii
) of this section during the period authorized for filing an appeal of the decision, or while an appeal is pending.
(
4
)
Substitution of beneficiaries.
An alien who has been replaced by another alien, on or before July 16, 2007, as the beneficiary of an approved permanent labor certification may not rely on that permanent labor certification to establish eligibility for H-1B status based on this lengthy adjudication delay exemption. Except for a substitution of a beneficiary that occurred on or before July 16, 2007, an alien establishing eligibility for this lengthy adjudication delay exemption based on a pending or approved labor certification must be the named beneficiary listed on the permanent labor certification.
(
5
)
Advance filing.
A petitioner may file an H-1B petition seeking a lengthy adjudication delay exemption under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(D) of this section within 6 months of the requested H-1B start date. The petition may be filed before 365 days have elapsed since the labor certification application or immigrant visa petition was filed with the Department of Labor or USCIS, respectively, provided that the application for labor certification or immigrant visa petition must have been filed at least 365 days prior to the date the period of admission authorized under this exemption will take effect. The petitioner may request any time remaining to the beneficiary under the maximum period of admission described at section 214(g)(4) of the Act along with the exemption request, but in no case may the approved H-1B period of validity exceed the limits specified by paragraph (h)(9)(iii) of this section. Time remaining to the beneficiary under the maximum period of admission described at section 214(g)(4) of the Act may include any request to recapture unused H-1B, L-1A, or L-1B time spent outside of the United States.
(
6
)
Petitioners seeking exemption.
The H-1B petitioner need not be the employer that filed the application for labor certification or immigrant visa petition that is used to qualify for this exemption.
(
7
)
Subsequent exemption approvals after the 7th year.
The qualifying labor certification or immigrant visa petition need not be the same as that used to qualify for the initial exemption under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(D) of this section.
(
8
)
Aggregation of time not permitted.
A petitioner may not aggregate the number of days that have elapsed since the filing of one labor certification or immigrant visa petition with the number of days that have elapsed since the filing of another such application or petition to meet the 365-day requirement.
(
9
)
Exemption eligibility.
Only a principal beneficiary of a nonfrivolous labor certification application or immigrant visa petition filed on his or her behalf may be eligible under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(D) of this section for an exemption to the maximum period of admission under section 214(g)(4) of the Act.
(
10
)
Limits on future exemptions from the lengthy adjudication delay.
An alien is ineligible for the lengthy adjudication delay exemption under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(D) of this section if the alien is the beneficiary of an approved petition under section 203(b) of the Act and fails to file an adjustment of status application or apply for an immigrant visa within 1 year of an immigrant visa being authorized for issuance based on his or her preference category and country of chargeability. If the accrual of such 1-year period is interrupted by the unavailability of an immigrant visa, a new 1-year period shall be afforded when an immigrant visa again becomes immediately available. USCIS may excuse a failure to file in its discretion if the alien establishes that the failure to apply was due to circumstances beyond his or her control. The limitations described in this paragraph apply to any approved immigrant visa petition under section 203(b) of the Act, including petitions withdrawn by the petitioner or those filed by a petitioner whose business terminates 180 days or more after approval.
(E)
Per-country limitation exemption from section 214(g)(4) of the Act.
An alien who currently maintains or previously held H-1B status, who is the beneficiary of an approved immigrant visa petition for classification under section 203(b)(1), (2), or (3) of the Act, and who is eligible to be granted that immigrant status but for application of the per country limitation, is eligible for H-1B status beyond the 6-year limitation under section 214(g)(4) of the Act. The petitioner must demonstrate such visa unavailability as of the date the H-1B petition is filed with USCIS.
(
1
)
Validity periods.
USCIS may grant validity periods for petitions approved under this paragraph in increments of up to 3 years for as long as the alien remains eligible for this exemption.
(
2
) H-1B approvals under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(E) of this section may be granted until a final decision has been made to:
(
i
) Revoke the approval of the immigrant visa petition; or
(
ii
) Approve or deny the alien's application for an immigrant visa or application to adjust status to lawful permanent residence.
(
3
)
Current H-1B status not required.
An alien who is not in H-1B status at the time the H-1B petition on his or her behalf is filed, including an alien who is not in the United States, may seek an exemption of the 6-year limitation under 214(g)(4) of the Act under this clause, if otherwise eligible.
(
4
)
Subsequent petitioners may seek exemptions.
The H-1B petitioner need not be the employer that filed the immigrant visa petition that is used to qualify for this exemption. An H-1B petition may be approved under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(E) of this section with respect to any approved immigrant visa petition, and a subsequent H-1B petition may be approved with respect to a different approved immigrant visa petition on behalf of the same alien.
(
5
)
Advance filing.
A petitioner may file an H-1B petition seeking a per-country limitation exemption under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(E) of this section within 6 months of the requested H-1B start date. The petitioner may request any time remaining to the beneficiary under the maximum period of admission described in section 214(g)(4) of the Act along with the exemption request, but in no case may the H-1B approval period exceed the limits specified by paragraph (h)(9)(iii) of this section.
(
6
)
Exemption eligibility.
Only the principal beneficiary of an approved immigrant visa petition for classification under section 203(b)(1), (2), or (3) of the Act may be eligible under paragraph (h)(13)(iii)(E) of this section for an exemption to the maximum period of admission under section 214(g)(4) of the Act.
(iv)
H-2B and H-3 limitation on admission.
An H-2B alien who has spent 3 years in the United States under section 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act may not seek extension, change status, or be readmitted to the United States under sections 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act unless the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States for the immediately preceding 3 months. An H-3 alien participant in a special education program who has spent 18 months in the United States under sections 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act; and an H-3 alien trainee who has spent 24 months in the United States under sections 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act may not seek extension, change status, or be readmitted to the United States under sections 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act unless the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States for the immediate prior 6 months.
(v)
Exceptions.
The limitations in paragraphs (h)(13)(iii) through (h)(13)(iv) of this section shall not apply to H-1B, H-2B, and H-3 aliens who did not reside continually in the United States and whose employment in the United States was seasonal or intermittent or was for an aggregate of 6 months or less per year. In addition, the limitations shall not apply to aliens who reside abroad and regularly commute to the United States to engage in part-time employment. An absence from the United States can interrupt the accrual of time spent as an H-2B nonimmigrant against the 3-year limit. If the accumulated stay is 18 months or less, an absence is interruptive if it lasts for at least 45 days. If the accumulated stay is greater than 18 months, an absence is
interruptive if it lasts for at least two months. To qualify for this exception, the petitioner and the alien must provide clear and convincing proof that the alien qualifies for such an exception. Such proof shall consist of evidence such as arrival and departure records, copies of tax returns, and records of employment abroad.
(14)
Extension of visa petition validity.
The petitioner shall file a request for a petition extension on the form prescribed by USCIS to extend the validity of the original petition under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act. Supporting evidence is not required unless requested by the director. A request for a petition extension may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
(15)
Extension of stay
—(i)
General.
The petitioner shall apply for extension of an alien's stay in the United States by filing a petition extension on the form prescribed by USCIS accompanied by the documents described for the particular classification in paragraph (h)(15)(ii) of this section. The petitioner must also request a petition extension. The dates of extension shall be the same for the petition and the beneficiary's extension of stay. The beneficiary must be physically present in the United States at the time of the filing of the extension of stay. Even though the requests to extend the petition and the alien's stay are combined on the petition, the director shall make a separate determination on each. If the alien is required to leave the United States for business or personal reasons while the extension requests are pending, the petitioner may request the director to cable notification of approval of the petition extension to the consular office abroad where the alien will apply for a visa. When the total period of stay in an H classification has been reached, no further extensions may be granted.
(ii)
Extension periods
—(A)
H-1C extension of stay.
The maximum period of admission for an H-1C alien is 3 years. An H-1C alien who was initially admitted to the United States for less than 3 years may receive an extension of stay up to the third anniversary date of his or her initial admission. An H-1C nonimmigrant may not receive an extension of stay beyond the third anniversary date of his or her initial admission to the United States.
(B)
H-1B extension of stay
—(
1
)
Alien in a specialty occupation or an alien of distinguished merit and ability in the field of fashion modeling.
An extension of stay may be authorized for a period of up to three years for a beneficiary of an H-1B petition in a specialty occupation or an alien of distinguished merit and ability. The alien's total period of stay may not exceed six years. The request for extension must be accompanied by either a new or a photocopy of the prior certification from the Department of Labor that the petitioner continues to have on file a labor condition application valid for the period of time requested for the occupation.
(
2
)
Alien in a DOD research and development or coproduction project.
An extension of stay may be authorized for a period up to five years for the beneficiary of an H-1B petition involving a DOD research and development project or coproduction project. The total period of stay may not exceed 10 years.
(C)
H-2A or H-2B extension of stay.
An extension of stay for the beneficiary of an H-2A or H-2B petition may be authorized for the validity of the labor certification or for a period of up to one year, except as provided for in paragraph (h)(5)(x) of this section. The alien's total period of stay as an H-2A or H-2B worker may not exceed three years, except that in the Virgin Islands, the alien's total period of stay may not exceed 45 days.
(D)
H-3 extension of stay.
An extension of stay may be authorized for the length of the training program for a total period of stay as an H-3 trainee not to exceed two years, or for a total period of stay as a participant in a special education training program not to exceed 18 months.
(16)
Effect of approval of a permanent labor certification or filing of a preference petition on H classification
—(i)
H-1B or H-1C classification.
The approval of a permanent labor certification or the filing of a preference petition for an alien shall not be a basis for denying an H-1C or H-1B petition or a request to extend such a petition, or the alien's
admission, change of status, or extension of stay. The alien may legitimately come to the United States for a temporary period as an H-1C or H-1B nonimmigrant and depart voluntarily at the end of his or her authorized stay and, at the same time, lawfully seek to become a permanent resident of the United States.
(ii)
H-2A, H-2B, and H-3 classification.
The approval of a permanent labor certification, or the filing of a preference petition for an alien currently employed by or in a training position with the same petitioner, shall be a reason, by itself, to deny the alien's extension of stay.
(17)
Effect of a strike.
(i) If the Secretary of Labor certifies to the Commissioner that a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers is in progress in the occupation and at the place where the beneficiary is to be employed or trained, and that the employment of training of the beneficiary would adversely affect the wages and working conditions of U.S. citizens and lawful resident workers:
(A) A petition to classify an alien as a nonimmigrant as defined in section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act shall be denied.
(B) If a petition has already been approved, but the alien has not yet entered the United States, or has entered the United States but has not commenced the employment, the approval of the petition is automatically suspended, and the application for admission on the basis of the petition shall be denied.
(ii) If there is a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers in progress, but such strike or other labor dispute is not certified under paragraph (h)(17)(i), the Commissioner shall not deny a petition or suspend an approved petition.
(iii) If the alien has already commenced employment in the United States under an approved petition and is participating in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, whether or not such strike or other labor dispute has been certified by the Department of Labor, the alien shall not be deemed to be failing to maintain his or her status solely on account of past, present, or future participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, but is subject to the following terms and conditions:
(A) The alien shall remain subject to all applicable provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and regulations promulgated in the same manner as all other H nonimmigrants;
(B) The status and authorized period of stay of such an alien is not modified or extended in any way by virtue of his or her participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers; and
(C) Although participation by an H nonimmigrant alien in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers will not constitute a ground for deportation, any alien who violates his or her status or who remains in the United States after his or her authorized period of stay has expired will be subject to deportation.
(18)
Use of approval notice, Form I-797.
The Service shall notify the petitioner on Form I-797 whenever a visa petition, an extension of a visa petition, or an alien's extension of stay is approved under the H classification. The beneficiary of an H petition who does not require a nonimmigrant visa may present a copy of the approval notice at a port of entry to facilitate entry into the United States. A beneficiary who is required to present a visa for admission and whose visa will have expired before the date of his or her intended return may use a copy of Form I-797 to apply for a new or revalidated visa during the validity period of the petition. The copy of Form I-797 shall be retained by the beneficiary and presented during the validity of the petition when reentering the United States to resume the same employment with the same petitioner.
(19)
Additional fee for filing certain H-1B petitions.
(i) A United States employer (other than an exempt employer defined in paragraph (h)(19)(iii) of this section, or an employer filing a petition described in paragraph (h)(19)(v) of this section) who files a petition or application must include the additional American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act (ACWIA) fee
referenced in 8 CFR 106.2, if the petition is filed for any of the following purposes:
(A) An initial grant of H-1B status under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) of the Act;
(B) An initial extension of stay, as provided in paragraph (h)(15)(i) of this section; or
(C) Authorization for a change in employers, as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
(ii) A petitioner must submit with the petition the ACWIA fee, and any other applicable fees, in accordance with § 103.7 of this chapter, and form instructions. Payment of all applicable fees must be made at the same time, but the petitioner may submit separate checks. USCIS will accept payment of the ACWIA fee only from the United States employer or its representative of record, as defined in 8 CFR 103.2(a) and 8 CFR part 292.
(iii) The following exempt organizations are not required to pay the additional fee:
(A)
An institution of higher education,
as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965;
(B)
An affiliated or related nonprofit entity.
A nonprofit entity shall be considered to be related to or affiliated with an institution of higher education if it satisfies any one of the following conditions:
(
1
) The nonprofit entity is connected to or associated with an institution of higher education through shared ownership or control by the same board or federation;
(
2
) The nonprofit entity is operated by an institution of higher education;
(
3
) The nonprofit entity is attached to an institution of higher education as a member, branch, cooperative, or subsidiary; or
(
4
) The nonprofit entity has entered into a formal written affiliation agreement with an institution of higher education that establishes an active working relationship between the nonprofit entity and the institution of higher education for the purposes of research or education, and a fundamental activity of the nonprofit entity is to directly contribute to the research or education mission of the institution of higher education;
(C)
A nonprofit research organization or governmental research organization.
A nonprofit research organization is an organization that is primarily engaged in basic research and/or applied research. A governmental research organization is a federal, state, or local entity whose primary mission is the performance or promotion of basic research and/or applied research. Basic research is general research to gain more comprehensive knowledge or understanding of the subject under study, without specific applications in mind. Basic research is also research that advances scientific knowledge, but does not have specific immediate commercial objectives although it may be in fields of present or potential commercial interest. It may include research and investigation in the sciences, social sciences, or humanities. Applied research is research to gain knowledge or understanding to determine the means by which a specific, recognized need may be met. Applied research includes investigations oriented to discovering new scientific knowledge that has specific commercial objectives with respect to products, processes, or services. It may include research and investigation in the sciences, social sciences, or humanities;
(D) A primary or secondary education institution; or
(E) A nonprofit entity which engages in an established curriculum-related clinical training of students registered at an institution of higher education.
(iv)
Non-profit or tax exempt organizations.
For purposes of paragraphs (h)(19)(iii) (B) and (C) of this section, a nonprofit organization or entity is:
(A) Defined as a tax exempt organization under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, section 501(c)(3), (c)(4) or (c)(6), 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3), (c)(4) or (c)(6), and
(B) Has been approved as a tax exempt organization for research or educational purposes by the Internal Revenue Service.
(v)
Filing situations where the
American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 (
ACWIA) fee is not required.
The ACWIA fee is not required if:
(A) The petition is an amended H-1B petition that does not contain any requests for an extension of stay;
(B) The petition is an H-1B petition filed for the sole purpose of correcting a Service error; or
(C) The petition is the second or subsequent request for an extension of stay filed by the employer regardless of when the first extension of stay was filed or whether the ACWIA fee was paid on the initial petition or the first extension of stay.
(vi)
ACWIA fee exemption evidence.
(A) Employer claiming to be exempt. An employer claiming to be exempt from the ACWIA fee must file the form prescribed by USCIS, in accordance with the form instructions, including supporting evidence establishing that it meets one of the exemptions described at paragraph (h)(19)(iii) of this section. A United States employer claiming an exemption from the ACWIA fee on the basis that it is a non-profit research organization must submit evidence that it has tax exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, section 501(c)(3), (c)(4) or (c)(6), 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3), (c)(4) or (c)(6). All other employers claiming an exemption must submit a statement describing why the organization or entity is exempt.
(B) Exempt filing situations. Any non-exempt employer who claims that the ACWIA fee does not apply with respect to a particular filing for one of the reasons described in paragraph (h)(19)(v) of this section must indicate why the ACWIA fee is not required.
(20)
Retaliatory action claims.
If credible documentary evidence is provided in support of a petition seeking an extension of H-1B stay in or change of status to another classification indicating that the beneficiary faced retaliatory action from his or her employer based on a report regarding a violation of that employer's labor condition application obligations under section 212(n)(2)(C)(iv) of the Act, USCIS may consider a loss or failure to maintain H-1B status by the beneficiary related to such violation as due to, and commensurate with, “extraordinary circumstances” as defined by § 214.1(c)(4) and 8 CFR 248.1(b).
(21)-(26) [Reserved]
(27)
Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers (January 28, 2022 through July 27, 2022).
(i) This paragraph (h)(27) relates to H-2B workers seeking to change employers during the time period specified in paragraph (h)(27)(iv) of this section. Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section:
(A) An alien in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status whose new petitioner files a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay on or after January 28, 2022, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner after the petition described in this paragraph (h)(27) is received by USCIS and before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date indicated in the new H-2B petition; or
(B) An alien whose new petitioner filed a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay before January 28, 2022 that remains pending on January 28, 2022, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition.
(ii)(A) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(27)(i)(A) of this section, and subject to the requirements of 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(30), the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(27)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the Received Date on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) or, if the start date of employment occurs after the I-797 Received Date, for a period of up to 60 days beginning on the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(B) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(27)(i)(B) of this section, the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(27)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the later of either January 28, 2022 or the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(C) With respect to either type of new petition, if USCIS adjudicates the new petition before the expiration of this 60-day period and denies the petition, or if the new petition is withdrawn by the petitioner before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization associated with the filing of that petition under 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(30) will automatically terminate 15 days after the date of the denial
decision or 15 days after the date on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this paragraph (h)(27) is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(vii) of this section and 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(9).
(iii) In addition to meeting all other requirements in paragraph (h)(6) of this section for the H-2B classification, to commence employment and be approved under this paragraph (h)(27), the alien must either:
(A) Have been in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status on or after January 28, 2022 and be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is received on or after January 28, 2022, but no later than July 27, 2022; or
(B) Be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is pending as of January 28, 2022.
(C) The petitioner must comply with all Federal, State, and local employment-related laws and regulations, including, where applicable, health and safety laws, laws related to COVID-19 worker protections, any right to time off or paid time off for COVID-19 vaccination, or to reimbursement for travel to and from the nearest available vaccination site; and
(D) The petitioner may not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority under 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(iv) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to this paragraph (h)(27) begins at 12 a.m. on January 28, 2022, and ends at the end of July 27, 2022.
(28)
Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers (July 28, 2022 through January 24, 2023).
(i) This paragraph (h)(28) relates to H-2B workers seeking to change employers during the time period specified in paragraph (h)(28)(iv) of this section. Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section:
(A) An alien in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status whose new petitioner files a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay on or after July 28, 2022, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner after the petition described in this paragraph (h)(28) is received by USCIS and before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date indicated in the new H-2B petition; or
(B) An alien whose new petitioner filed a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay before July 28, 2022 that remains pending on July 28, 2022, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition.
(ii)(A) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(28)(i)(A) of this section, and subject to the requirements of 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(30), the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(28)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the Received Date on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) or, if the start date of employment occurs after the I-797 Received Date, for a period of up to 60 days beginning on the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(B) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(28)(i)(B) of this section, the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(28)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the later of either July 28, 2022 or the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(C) With respect to either type of new petition, if USCIS adjudicates the new petition before the expiration of this 60-day period and denies the petition, or if the new petition is withdrawn by the petitioner before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization associated with the filing of that petition under 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(30) will automatically terminate 15 days after the date of the denial decision or 15 days after the date on which the new petition is withdrawn.
Nothing in this paragraph (h)(28) is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(vii) of this section and 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(9).
(iii) In addition to meeting all other requirements in paragraph (h)(6) of this section for the H-2B classification, to commence employment and be approved under this paragraph (h)(28):
(A) The alien must either (1) have been in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status on or after July 28, 2022 and be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is received on or after July 28, 2022, but no later than January 24, 2023; or (2) be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is pending as of July 28, 2022.
(B) The petitioner must comply with all Federal, State, and local employment-related laws and regulations, including, where applicable, health and safety laws, laws related to COVID-19 worker protections, any right to time off or paid time off for COVID-19 vaccination, or to reimbursement for travel to and from the nearest available vaccination site; and
(C) The petitioner may not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority under 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(iv) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to this paragraph (h)(28) begins at 12 a.m. on July 28, 2022, and ends at the end of January 24, 2023.
(29)
Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers.
(i) This paragraph (h)(29) relates to H-2B workers seeking to change employers during the time period specified in paragraph (h)(29)(iv) of this section. Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section:
(A) An alien in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status whose new petitioner files a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay on or after January 25, 2023, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner after the petition described in this paragraph (h)(29) is received by USCIS and before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date indicated in the new H-2B petition; or
(B) An alien whose new petitioner filed a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay before January 25, 2023 that remains pending on January 25, 2023, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition.
(ii)(A) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(29)(i)(A) of this section, and subject to the requirements of 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(33), the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(29)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the Received Date on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) or, if the start date of employment occurs after the I-797 Received Date, for a period of up to 60 days beginning on the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(B) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(29)(i)(B) of this section, the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(29)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the later of either January 25, 2023 or the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(C) With respect to either type of new petition, if USCIS adjudicates the new petition before the expiration of this 60-day period and denies the petition, or if the new petition is withdrawn by the petitioner before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization associated with the filing of that petition under 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(33) will automatically terminate 15 days after the date of the denial decision or 15 days after the date on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this paragraph (h)(29) is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(vii) of this section and 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(9).
(iii) In addition to meeting all other requirements in paragraph (h)(6) of this section for the H-2B classification, to commence employment under this paragraph (h)(29):
(A) The alien must either have been in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status on or after January 25, 2023 and be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is received on or after January 25, 2023, but no later than January 24, 2024; or be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is pending as of January 25, 2023.
(B) The petitioner must comply with all Federal, State, and local employment-related laws and regulations, including, where applicable, health and safety laws, laws related to COVID-19 worker protections, any right to time off or paid time off for COVID-19 vaccination, or to reimbursement for travel to and from the nearest available vaccination site; and
(C) The petitioner may not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority under 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(iv) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to this paragraph (h)(29) begins at 12 a.m. on January 25, 2023, and ends at the end of January 24, 2024.
(30) [Reserved]
(31)
Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers.
(i) This paragraph (h)(31) relates to H-2B workers seeking to change employers during the time period specified in paragraph (h)(31)(iv) of this section. Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section:
(A) An alien in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status whose new petitioner files a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay on or after January 25, 2024, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner after the petition described in this paragraph (h)(31) is received by USCIS and before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date indicated in the new H-2B petition; or
(B) An alien whose new petitioner filed a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay before January 25, 2024, that remains pending on January 25, 2024, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition.
(ii)(A) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(31)(i)(A) of this section, and subject to the requirements of 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(34), the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(31)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the Received Date on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) or, if the start date of employment occurs after the I-797 Received Date, for a period of up to 60 days beginning on the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(B) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(31)(i)(B) of this section, the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(31)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the later of either January 25, 2024, or the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(C) With respect to either type of new petition, if USCIS adjudicates the new petition before the expiration of this 60-day period and denies the petition, or if the new petition is withdrawn by the petitioner before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization associated with the filing of that petition under 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(34) will automatically terminate 15 days after the date of the denial decision or 15 days after the date on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this paragraph (h)(31) is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(vii) of this section and 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(9).
(iii) In addition to meeting all other requirements in paragraph (h)(6) of this section for the H-2B classification, to commence employment under this paragraph (h)(31):
(A) The alien must either:
(
1
) Have been in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status on or after January 25, 2024 and be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is received on or after January 25, 2024, but no later than January 24, 2025; or
(
2
) Be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is pending as of January 25, 2024; and
(B) The petitioner may not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority under 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(iv) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to this paragraph (h)(31) begins at 12 a.m. on January 25, 2024, and ends at the end of January 24, 2025.
(32)
Change of employers and portability for H-2B workers.
(i) This paragraph (h)(32) relates to H-2B workers seeking to change employers during the time period specified in paragraph (h)(32)(iv) of this section. Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section:
(A) An alien in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status whose new petitioner files a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay on or after January 25, 2025, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner after the petition described in this paragraph (h)(32) is received by USCIS and before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date indicated in the new H-2B petition; or
(B) An alien whose new petitioner filed a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay before January 25, 2025, that remains pending on January 25, 2025, is authorized to begin employment with the new petitioner before the new H-2B petition is approved, but no earlier than the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition.
(ii)(A) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(32)(i)(A) of this section, and subject to the requirements of 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(35), the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(32)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the Received Date on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) or, if the start date of employment occurs after the I-797 Received Date, for a period of up to 60 days beginning on the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(B) With respect to a new petition described in paragraph (h)(32)(i)(B) of this section, the new period of employment described in paragraph (h)(32)(i) of this section may last for up to 60 days beginning on the later of either January 25, 2025, or the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition.
(C) With respect to either type of new petition, if USCIS adjudicates the new petition before the expiration of this 60-day period and denies the petition, or if the new petition is withdrawn by the petitioner before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization associated with the filing of that petition under 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(35) will automatically terminate 15 days after the date of the denial decision or 15 days after the date on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this paragraph (h)(32) is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(vii) of this section and 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(9).
(iii) In addition to meeting all other requirements in paragraph (h)(6) of this section for the H-2B classification, to commence employment under this paragraph (h)(32):
(A) The alien must either:
(
1
) Have been in valid H-2B nonimmigrant status on or after January 25, 2025 and be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is received on or after January 25, 2025, but no later than January 24, 2026; or
(
2
) Be the beneficiary of a non-frivolous H-2B petition requesting an extension of the alien's stay that is pending as of January 25, 2025; and
(B) The petitioner may not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority under
20 CFR part 655, subpart A, and 29 CFR 503.25.
(iv) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to this paragraph (h)(32) begins at 12 a.m. on January 25, 2025, and ends at the end of January 24, 2026.
(i)
Representatives of information media
—(1)
In general.
The admission of an alien of the class defined in section 101(a)(15)(I) of the Act constitutes an agreement by the alien not to change the information medium or his or her employer until he or she obtains permission to do so from the district director having jurisdiction over his or her residence. An alien classified as an information media nonimmigrant (I) may be admitted in or otherwise granted I nonimmigrant status for:
(i) The duration of employment, except as provided in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) In the case of an alien who presents a passport issued by the People's Republic of China (PRC) (other than a Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport or a Macau Special Administrative Region passport), until the activities or assignments consistent with the I classification are completed, not to exceed the maximum period of stay as determined by the Secretary. The Secretary of Homeland Security may determine the maximum period of stay when the Secretary determines an adjustment is needed, with such maximum period to be no longer than one year. In determining the maximum period of stay and whether an adjustment is needed, the Secretary will consider factors including, but not limited to, the average authorized period of stay and press credential validity for U.S. journalists in the PRC, the treatment of U.S. journalists in the PRC, any input from the U.S. Department of State, and such other factors as may affect the U.S. interest. Such determination will be published in the
Federal Register
as a notice and will remain in effect until the Secretary of Homeland Security publishes a new determination under this paragraph.
(2)
Extension of stay.
An alien in I status who is described in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section may be eligible for extensions of stay, each of up to the maximum period of stay determined by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section or until the activities or assignments consistent with the I classification are completed (whichever date is earlier).
(i) Notwithstanding 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(20), an alien in I status who is described in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section whose status has expired, but who timely filed an application for an extension of stay, is authorized to stay in the United States and continue employment with the same employer for a period not to exceed 90 days beginning on the date of the expiration of the authorized period of stay. However, if USCIS adjudicates the application prior to the expiration of the 90-day period, and denies the application for an extension of stay, the alien must immediately depart the United States.
(ii) To request an extension of stay, an alien in I status must file an application to extend his or her stay by submitting the form designated by USCIS, in accordance with that form's instructions, and with the required fee, including any biometrics required by 8 CFR 103.16, as appropriate. Requests for extensions of stay will be adjudicated consistent with international legal obligations, including the United Nations Headquarters Agreement and Organization of American States Headquarters Agreement.
(3)
Change of status.
An alien seeking to change from a different nonimmigrant status to, if eligible, an I status described in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section, may be granted a period of stay until the activities or assignments consistent with the I classification are completed, not to exceed the maximum period of stay determined by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section. To request a change from a different nonimmigrant status to an I status described in paragraph (i)(1)(ii), an alien must file an application to change his or her status by submitting the form designated by USCIS, in accordance with that form's instructions, and with the required fee, including any biometrics required by 8 CFR 103.16, as appropriate.
(4)
Applicable maximum period of stay.
Any change in the maximum period of stay announced by a
Federal Register
notice pursuant to paragraph
(i)(1)(ii) of this section applies to applications for an extension of stay or a change of status, filed under paragraphs (i)(2) and (3) of this section respectively, that are pending with USCIS on the effective date of the
Federal Register
notice.
(j)
Exchange aliens
—(1)
General
—(i)
Eligibility for admission.
A nonimmigrant exchange visitor and his or her accompanying spouse and minor children may be admitted into the United States in J-1 and J-2 classifications under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act, if the exchange visitor and his or her accompanying spouse and children each presents a SEVIS Form DS-2019 issued in his or her own name by a program approved by the Department of State for participation by J-1 exchange visitors. Prior to August 1, 2003, if exigent circumstances are demonstrated, the Service will allow the dependent of an exchange visitor possessing a SEVIS Form DS-2019 to enter the United States using a copy of the exchange visitor's SEVIS Form DS-2019. However, where the exchange visitor presents a properly completed Form DS-2019, Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor (J-1) Status, which was issued to the J-1 exchange visitor by a program approved by the Department of State for participation by exchange visitors and which remains valid for the admission of the exchange visitor, the accompanying spouse and children may be admitted on the basis of the J-1's non-SEVIS Form DS-2019.
(ii)
Admission period.
An exchange alien, and J-2 spouse and children, may be admitted for a period up to 30 days before the report date or start of the approved program listed on Form DS-2019. The initial admission of an exchange visitor, spouse and children may not exceed the period specified on Form DS-2019, plus a period of 30 days for the purposes of travel or for the period designated by the Commissioner as provided in paragraph (j)(1)(vi) of this section. Regulations of the Department of State published at 22 CFR part 62 give general limitations on the stay of the various classes of exchange visitors. A spouse or child may not be admitted for longer than the principal exchange visitor.
(iii)
Readmission.
An exchange alien may be readmitted to the United States for the remainder of the time authorized on Form I-94, without presenting Form IAP-66, if the alien is returning from a visit solely to foreign contiguous territory or adjacent islands after an absence of less than 30 days and if the original Form I-94 is presented. All other exchange aliens must present a valid Form IAP-66. An original Form IAP-66 or copy three (the pink copy) of a previously issued form presented by an exchange alien returning from a temporary absence shall be retained by the exchange alien for re-entries during the balance of the alien's stay.
(iv)
Extensions of Stay.
If an exchange alien requires an extension beyond the initial admission period, the alien shall apply by submitting a new Form DS-2019 which indicates the date to which the alien's program is extended. The extension may not exceed the period specified on Form DS-2019, plus a period of 30 days for the purpose of travel. Extensions of stay for the alien's spouse and children require, as an attachment to Form DS-2019, Form I-94 for each dependent, and a list containing the names of the applicants, dates and places of birth, passport numbers, issuing countries, and expiration dates. An accompanying spouse or child may not be granted an extension of stay for longer than the principal exchange alien.
(v)
Employment.
(A) The accompanying spouse and minor children of a J-1 exchange visitor may accept employment only with authorization by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. A request for employment authorization must be made on Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, with fee, as required by the Service, to the district director having jurisdiction over the J-1 exchange visitor's temporary residence in the United States. Income from the spouse's or dependent's employment may be used to support the family's customary recreational and cultural activities and related travel, among other things. Employment will not be authorized if this income is needed to support the J-1 principal alien.
(B) J-2 employment may be authorized for the duration of the J-1 principal alien's authorized stay as indicated on Form I-94 or a period of four years, whichever is shorter. The employment authorization is valid only if the J-1 is maintaining status. Where a J-2 spouse or dependent child has filed a timely application for extension of stay, only upon approval of the request for extension of stay may he or she apply for a renewal of the employment authorization on a Form I-765 with the required fee.
(vi)
Extension of duration of status.
The Commissioner may, by notice in the
Federal Register,
at any time she determines that the H-1B numerical limitation as described in section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act will likely be reached prior to the end of a current fiscal year, extend for such a period of time as the Commissioner deems necessary to complete the adjudication of the H-1B application, the duration of status of any J-1 alien on behalf of whom an employer has timely filed an application for change of status to H-1B. The alien, in accordance with 8 CFR part 248, must not have violated the terms of his or her nonimmigrant stay and is not subject to the 2-year foreign residence requirement at 212(e) of the Act. Any J-1 student whose duration of status has been extended shall be considered to be maintaining lawful nonimmigrant status for all purposes under the Act, provided that the alien does not violate the terms and conditions of his or her J nonimmigrant stay. An extension made under this paragraph also applies to the J-2 dependent aliens.
(vii)
Use of SEVIS.
At a date to be established by the Department of State, the use of the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) will become mandatory for designated program sponsors. After that date, which will be announced by publication in the
Federal Register,
all designated program sponsors must begin issuance of the SEVIS Form DS-2019.
(viii)
Current name and address.
A J-1 exchange visitor must inform the Service and the responsible officer of the exchange visitor program of any legal changes to his or her name or of any change of address, within 10 days of the change, in a manner prescribed by the program sponsor. A J-1 exchange visitor enrolled in a SEVIS program can satisfy the requirement in 8 CFR 265.1 of notifying the Service by providing a notice of a change of address within 10 days to the responsible officer, who in turn shall enter the information in SEVIS within 21 days of notification by the exchange visitor. A J-1 exchange visitor enrolled at a non-SEVIS program must submit a change of address to the Service, as provided in 8 CFR 265.1, within 10 days of the change. Except in the case of an exchange visitor who cannot receive mail where he or she resides, the address provided by the exchange visitor must be the actual physical location where the exchange visitor resides rather than a mailing address. In cases where an exchange visitor provides a mailing address, the exchange visitor program must maintain a record of, and must provide upon request from the Service, the actual physical location where the exchange visitor resides.
(2)
Special reporting requirement.
Each exchange alien participating in a program of graduate medical education or training shall file Form I-644 (Supplementary Statement for Graduate Medical Trainees) annually with the Service attesting to the conditions as specified on the form. The exchange alien shall also submit Form I-644 as an attachment to a completed Form DS-2019 when applying for an extension of stay.
(3)
Alien in cancelled programs.
When the approval of an exchange visitor program is withdrawn by the Director of the United States Information Agency, the district director shall send a notice of the withdrawal to each participant in the program and a copy of each such notice shall be sent to the program sponsor. If the exchange visitor is currently engaged in activities authorized by the cancelled program, the participant is authorized to remain in the United States to engage in those activities until expiration of the period of stay previously authorized. The district director shall notify participants in cancelled programs that permission to remain in the United States as an exchange visitor, or extension of stay may be obtained if the participant is accepted in another approved program
and a Form DS-2019, executed by the new program sponsor, is submitted. In this case, a release from the sponsor of the cancelled program will not be required.
(4)
Eligibility requirements for section 101(a)(15)(J) classification for aliens desiring to participate in programs under which they will receive graduate medical education or training
—(i)
Requirements.
Any alien coming to the United States as an exchange visitor to participate in a program under which the alien will receive graduate medical education or training, or any alien seeking to change nonimmigrant status to that of an exchange visitor on Form I-506 for that purpose, must have passed parts of I and II of the National Board of Medical Examiners Examination (or an equivalent examination as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services), and must be competent in oral and written English, and shall submit a completely executed and valid Form DS-2019.
(ii)
Exemptions.
From January 10, 1978 until December 31, 1983, any alien who has come to or seeks to come to the United States as an exchange visitor to participate in an accredited program of graduate medical education or training, or any alien who seeks to change nonimmigrant status for that purpose, may be admitted to participate in such program without regard to the requirements stated in subparagraphs (A) and (B)(ii)(I) of section 212(j)(1) of the Act if a substantial disruption in the health services provided by such program would result from not permitting the alien to participate in the program:
Provided
that the exemption will not increase the total number of aliens then participating in such programs to a level greater than that participating on January 10, 1978.
(5)
Remittance of the fee.
An alien who applies for J-1 nonimmigrant status in order to commence participation in a Department of State-designated exchange visitor program is required to pay the SEVIS fee to DHS, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.13, except as otherwise provided in that section.
(k)
Spouses, Fiancées, and Fiancés of United States Citizens
—(1)
Petition and supporting documents.
To be classified as a fiance or fiancee as defined in section 101(a)(15)(K)(i) of the Act, an alien must be the beneficiary of an approved visa petition filed on Form ­I-129F. A copy of a document submitted in support of a visa petition filed pursuant to section 214(d) of the Act and this paragraph may be accepted, though unaccompanied by the original, if the copy bears a certification by an attorney, typed or rubber-stamped, in the language set forth in § 204.2(j) of this chapter. However, the original document shall be submitted if requested by the Service.
(2)
Requirement that petitioner and K-1 beneficiary have met.
The petitioner shall establish to the satisfaction of the director that the petitioner and K-1 beneficiary have met in person within the two years immediately preceding the filing of the petition. As a matter of discretion, the director may exempt the petitioner from this requirement only if it is established that compliance would result in extreme hardship to the petitioner or that compliance would violate strict and long-established customs of the K-1 beneficiary's foreign culture or social practice, as where marriages are traditionally arranged by the parents of the contracting parties and the prospective bride and groom are prohibited from meeting subsequent to the arrangement and prior to the wedding day. In addition to establishing that the required meeting would be a violation of custom or practice, the petitioner must also establish that any and all other aspects of the traditional arrangements have been or will be met in accordance with the custom or practice. Failure to establish that the petitioner and K-1 beneficiary have met within the required period or that compliance with the requirement should be waived shall result in the denial of the petition. Such denial shall be without prejudice to the filing of a new petition once the petitioner and K-1 beneficiary have met in person.
(3)
Children of beneficiary.
Without the approval of a separate petition on his or her behalf, a child of the beneficiary (as defined in section 101(b)(1)(A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) of the
Act) may be accorded the same nonimmigrant classification as the beneficiary if accompanying or following to join him or her.
(4)
Notification.
The petitioner shall be notified of the decision and, if the petition is denied, of the reasons therefor and of the right to appeal in accordance with the provisions of part 103 of this chapter.
(5)
Validity.
The approval of a petition under this paragraph shall be valid for a period of four months. A petition which has expired due to the passage of time may be revalidated by a director or a consular officer for a period of four months from the date of revalidation upon a finding that the petitioner and K-1 beneficiary are free to marry and intend to marry each other within 90 days of the beneficiary's entry into the United States. The approval of any petition is automatically terminated when the petitioner dies or files a written withdrawal of the petition before the beneficiary arrives in the United States.
(6)
Adjustment of status from nonimmigrant to immigrant.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii)
Nonimmigrant visa issued on or after November 10, 1986.
Upon contracting a valid marriage to the petitioner within 90 days of his or her admission as a nonimmigrant pursuant to a valid K-1 visa issued on or after November 10, 1986, the K-1 beneficiary and his or her minor children may apply for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident under section 245 of the Act. Upon approval of the application the director shall record their lawful admission for permanent residence in accordance with that section and subject to the conditions prescribed in section 216 of the Act.
(7)
Eligibility, petition and supporting documents for K-3/K-4 classification.
To be classified as a K-3 spouse as defined in section 101(a)(15)(k)(ii) of the Act, or the K-4 child of such alien defined in section 101(a)(15)(K)(iii) of the Act, the alien spouse must be the beneficiary of an immigrant visa petition filed by a U.S. citizen on Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative, and the beneficiary of an approved petition for a K-3 nonimmigrant visa filed on Form I-129F.
(8)
Period of admission for K3/K-4 status.
Aliens entering the United States as a K-3 shall be admitted for a period of 2 years. Aliens entering the United States as a K-4 shall be admitted for a period of 2 years or until that alien's 21st birthday, whichever is shorter.
(9)
Employment authorization.
An alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(K) of the Act shall be authorized to work incident to status for the period of authorized stay. K-1/K-2 aliens seeking work authorization must apply, with fee, to the Service for work authorization pursuant to § 274a.12(a)(6) of this chapter. K-3/K-4 aliens must apply to the Service for a document evidencing employment authorization pursuant to § 274a.12(a)(9) of this chapter. Employment authorization documents issued to K-3/K-4 aliens may be renewed only upon a showing that the applicant has an application or petition awaiting approval, equivalent to the showing required for an extension of stay pursuant to § 214.2(k)(10).
(10)
Extension of stay for K-3/K-4 status
—(i)
General.
A K-3/K-4 alien may apply for extension of stay, on Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status, 120 days prior to the expiration of his or her authorized stay. Extensions for K-4 status must be filed concurrently with the alien's parent's K-3 status extension application. In addition, the citizen parent of a K-4 alien filing for extension of K status should file Form I-130 on their behalf. Extension will be granted in 2-year intervals upon a showing of eligibility pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(K)(ii) or (iii) of the Act. Aliens wishing to extend their period of stay as a K-3 or K-4 alien pursuant to § 214.1(c)(2) must show that one of the following has been filed with the Service or the Department of State, as applicable, and is awaiting approval:
(A) The Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative, filed by the K-3's U.S. citizen spouse who filed the Form I-129F;
(B) An application for an immigrant visa based on a Form I-130 described in § 214.2(K)(10)(i);
(C) A Form I-485, Application for Adjustment to that of Permanent Residence, based on a Form I-130 described in § 214.2(k)(10)(i);
(ii)
“Good Cause” showing.
Aliens may file for an extension of stay as a K-3/K-4 nonimmigrant after a Form I-130 filed on their behalf has been approved, without filing either an application for adjustment of status or an immigrant visa upon a showing of “good cause.” A showing of “good cause” may include an illness, a job loss, or some other catastrophic event that has prevented the filing of an adjustment of status application by the K-3/K-4 alien. The event or events must have taken place since the alien entered the United States as a K-3/K-4 nonimmigrant. The burden of establishing “good cause” rests solely with the applicant. Whether the applicant has shown “good cause” is a purely discretionary decision by the Service from which there is no appeal.
(11)
Termination of K-3/K-4 status.
The status of an alien admitted to the United States as a K-3/K-4 under section 101(a)(15)(K)(ii) or (iii) of the Act, shall be automatically terminated 30 days following the occurrence of any of the following:
(i) The denial or revocation of the Form I-130 filed on behalf of that alien;
(ii) The denial or revocation of the immigrant visa application filed by that alien;
(iii) The denial or revocation of the alien's application for adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent residence;
(iv) The K-3 spouse's divorce from the U.S. citizen becomes final;
(v) The marriage of an alien in K-4 status.
(vi) The denial of any of these petitions or applications to a K-3 also results in termination of a dependent K-4's status. For purposes of this section, there is no denial or revocation of a petition or application until the administrative appeal applicable to that application or petition has been exhausted.
(l)
Intracompany transferees
—(1)
Admission of intracompany transferees
—(i)
General.
Under section 101(a)(15)(L) of the Act, an alien who within the preceding three years has been employed abroad for one continuous year by a qualifying organization may be admitted temporarily to the United States to be employed by a parent, branch, affiliate, or subsidiary of that employer in a managerial or executive capacity, or in a position requiring specialized knowledge. An alien transferred to the United States under this nonimmigrant classification is referred to as an intracompany transferee and the organization which seeks the classification of an alien as an intracompany transferee is referred to as the petitioner. The Service has responsibility for determining whether the alien is eligible for admission and whether the petitioner is a qualifying organization. These regulations set forth the standards applicable to these classifications. They also set forth procedures for admission of intracompany transferees and appeal of adverse decisions. Certain petitioners seeking the classification of aliens as intracompany transferees may file blanket petitions with the Service. Under the blanket petition process, the Service is responsible for determining whether the petitioner and its parent, branches, affiliates, or subsidiaries specified are qualifying organizations. The Department of State or, in certain cases, the Service is responsible for determining the classification of the alien.
(ii)
Definitions
—(A)
Intracompany transferee
means an alien who, within three years preceding the time of his or her application for admission into the United States, has been employed abroad continuously for one year by a firm or corporation or other legal entity or parent, branch, affiliate, or subsidiary thereof, and who seeks to enter the United States temporarily in order to render his or her services to a branch of the same employer or a parent, affiliate, or subsidiary thereof in a capacity that is managerial, executive, or involves specialized knowledge. Periods spent in the United States in lawful status for a branch of the same employer or a parent, affiliate, or subsidiary thereof and brief trips to the United States for business or pleasure shall not be interruptive of the one year of continuous employment abroad but such periods shall not be counted toward fulfillment of that requirement.
(B)
Managerial capacity
means an assignment within an organization in which the employee primarily:
(
1
) Manages the organization, or a department, subdivision, function, or component of the organization;
(
2
) Supervises and controls the work of other supervisory, professional, or managerial employees, or manages an essential function within the organization, or a department or subdivision of the organization;
(
3
) Has the authority to hire and fire or recommend those as well as other personnel actions (such as promotion and leave authorization) if another employee or other employees are directly supervised; if no other employee is directly supervised, functions at a senior level within the organizational hierarchy or with respect to the function managed; and
(
4
) Exercises discretion over the day-to-day operations of the activity or function for which the employee has authority. A first-line supervisor is not considered to be acting in a managerial capacity merely by virtue of the supervisor's supervisory duties unless the employees supervised are professional.
(C)
Executive capacity
means an assignment within an organization in which the employee primarily:
(
1
) Directs the management of the organization or a major component or function of the organization;
(
2
) Establishes the goals and policies of the organization, component, or function;
(
3
) Exercises wide latitude in discretionary decision-making; and
(
4
) Receives only general supervision or direction from higher level executives, the board of directors, or stockholders of the organization.
(D)
Specialized knowledge
means special knowledge possessed by an individual of the petitioning organization's product, service, research, equipment, techniques, management, or other interests and its application in international markets, or an advanced level of knowledge or expertise in the organization's processes and procedures.
(E)
Specialized knowledge professional
means an individual who has specialized knowledge as defined in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(D) of this section and is a member of the professions as defined in section 101(a)(32) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
(F)
New office
means an organization which has been doing business in the United States through a parent, branch, affiliate, or subsidiary for less than one year.
(G)
Qualifying organization
means a United States or foreign firm, corporation, or other legal entity which:
(
1
) Meets exactly one of the qualifying relationships specified in the definitions of a parent, branch, affiliate or subsidiary specified in paragraph (l)(1)(ii) of this section;
(
2
) Is or will be doing business (engaging in international trade is not required) as an employer in the United States and in at least one other country directly or through a parent, branch, affiliate, or subsidiary for the duration of the alien's stay in the United States as an intracompany transferee; and
(
3
) Otherwise meets the requirements of section 101(a)(15)(L) of the Act.
(H)
Doing business
means the regular, systematic, and continuous provision of goods and/or services by a qualifying organization and does not include the mere presence of an agent or office of the qualifying organization in the United States and abroad.
(I)
Parent
means a firm, corporation, or other legal entity which has subsidiaries.
(J)
Branch
means an operating division or office of the same organization housed in a different location.
(K)
Subsidiary
means a firm, corporation, or other legal entity of which a parent owns, directly or indirectly, more than half of the entity and controls the entity; or owns, directly or indirectly, half of the entity and controls the entity; or owns, directly or indirectly, 50 percent of a 50-50 joint venture and has equal control and veto power over the entity; or owns, directly or indirectly, less than half of the entity, but in fact controls the entity.
(L)
Affiliate
means (
1
) One of two subsidiaries both of which are owned and controlled by the same parent or individual, or
(
2
) One of two legal entities owned and controlled by the same group of individuals, each individual owning and
controlling approximately the same share or proportion of each entity, or
(
3
) In the case of a partnership that is organized in the United States to provide accounting services along with managerial and/or consulting services and that markets its accounting services under an internationally recognized name under an agreement with a worldwide coordinating organization that is owned and controlled by the member accounting firms, a partnership (or similar organization) that is organized outside the United States to provide accounting services shall be considered to be an affiliate of the United States partnership if it markets its accounting services under the same internationally recognized name under the agreement with the worldwide coordinating organization of which the United States partnership is also a member.
(M)
Director
means a Service Center director with delegated authority at 8 CFR 103.1.
(2)
Filing of petitions.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) and (l)(17) of this section, a petitioner seeking to classify an alien as an intracompany transferee must file a petition on the form prescribed by USCIS. The petitioner shall advise USCIS whether a previous petition for the same beneficiary has been filed, and certify that another petition for the same beneficiary will not be filed unless the circumstances and conditions in the initial petition have changed. Failure to make a full disclosure of previous petitions filed may result in a denial of the petition.
(ii) A United States petitioner which meets the requirements of paragraph (l)(4) of this section and seeks continuing approval of itself and its parent, branches, specified subsidiaries and affiliates as qualifying organizations and, later, classification under section 101(a)(15)(L) of the Act multiple numbers of aliens employed by itself, its parent, or those branches, subsidiaries, or affiliates may file a blanket petition on the form prescribed by USCIS. The blanket petition shall be maintained at the adjudicating office. The petitioner shall be the single representative for the qualifying organizations with which USCIS will deal regarding the blanket petition.
(3)
Evidence for individual petitions.
An individual petition filed on the form prescribed by USCIS shall be accompanied by:
(i) Evidence that the petitioner and the organization which employed or will employ the alien are qualifying organizations as defined in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(G) of this section.
(ii) Evidence that the alien will be employed in an executive, managerial, or specialized knowledge capacity, including a detailed description of the services to be performed.
(iii) Evidence that the alien has at least one continuous year of full-time employment abroad with a qualifying organization within the three years preceding the filing of the petition.
(iv) Evidence that the alien's prior year of employment abroad was in a position that was managerial, executive, or involved specialized knowledge and that the alien's prior education, training, and employment qualifies him/her to perform the intended services in the United States; however, the work in the United States need not be the same work which the alien performed abroad.
(v) If the petition indicates that the beneficiary is coming to the United States as a manager or executive to open or to be employed in a new office in the United States, the petitioner shall submit evidence that:
(A) Sufficient physical premises to house the new office have been secured;
(B) The beneficiary has been employed for one continuous year in the three year period preceding the filing of the petition in an executive or managerial capacity and that the proposed employment involved executive or managerial authority over the new operation; and
(C) The intended United States operation, within one year of the approval of the petition, will support an executive or managerial position as defined in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii) (B) or (C) of this section, supported by information regarding:
(
1
) The proposed nature of the office describing the scope of the entity, its organizational structure, and its financial goals;
(
2
) The size of the United States investment and the financial ability of the foreign entity to remunerate the beneficiary and to commence doing business in the United States; and
(
3
) The organizational structure of the foreign entity.
(vi) If the petition indicates that the beneficiary is coming to the United States in a specialized knowledge capacity to open or to be employed in a new office, the petitioner shall submit evidence that:
(A) Sufficient physical premises to house the new office have been secured;
(B) The business entity in the United States is or will be a qualifying organization as defined in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(G) of this section; and
(C) The petitioner has the financial ability to remunerate the beneficiary and to commence doing business in the United States.
(vii) If the beneficiary is an owner or major stockholder of the company, the petition must be accompanied by evidence that the beneficiary's services are to be used for a temporary period and evidence that the beneficiary will be transferred to an assignment abroad upon the completion of the temporary services in the United States.
(viii) Such other evidence as the director, in his or her discretion, may deem necessary.
(4)
Blanket petitions.
(i) A petitioner which meets the following requirements may file a blanket petition seeking continuing approval of itself and some or all of its parent, branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates as qualifying organizations if:
(A) The petitioner and each of those entities are engaged in commercial trade or services;
(B) The petitioner has an office in the United States that has been doing business for one year or more;
(C) The petitioner has three or more domestic and foreign branches, subsidiaries, or affiliates; and
(D) The petitioner and the other qualifying organizations have obtained approval of petitions for at least ten “L” managers, executives, or specialized knowledge professionals during the previous 12 months; or have U.S. subsidiaries or affiliates with combined annual sales of at least $25 million; or have a United States work force of at least 1,000 employees.
(ii) Managers, executives, and specialized knowledge professionals employed by firms, corporations, or other entities which have been found to be qualifying organizations pursuant to an approved blanket petition may be classified as intracompany transferees and admitted to the United States as provided in paragraphs (l) (5) and (11) of this section.
(iii) When applying for a blanket petition, the petitioner shall include in the blanket petition all of its branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates which plan to seek to transfer aliens to the United States under the blanket petition. An individual petition may be filed by the petitioner or organizations in lieu of using the blanket petition procedure. However, the petitioner and other qualifying organizations may not seek L classification for the same alien under both procedures, unless a consular officer first denies eligibility. Whenever a petitioner which has blanket L approval files an individual petition to seek L classification for a manager, executive, or specialized knowledge professional, the petitioner shall advise the Service that it has blanket L approval and certify that the beneficiary has not and will not apply to a consular officer for L classification under the approved blanket petition.
(iv)
Evidence.
A blanket petition filed on the form prescribed by USCIS shall be accompanied by:
(A) Evidence that the petitioner meets the requirements of paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section.
(B) Evidence that all entities for which approval is sought are qualifying organizations as defined in subparagraph (l)(1)(ii)(G) of this section.
(C) Such other evidence as the director, in his or her discretion, deems necessary in a particular case.
(5)
Certification and admission procedures for beneficiaries under blanket petition
—(i)
Jurisdiction.
United States consular officers shall have authority to determine eligibility of individual beneficiaries outside the United States seeking L classification under blanket petitions, except for visa-exempt nonimmigrants. An application for a visa-
exempt nonimmigrant seeking L classification under a blanket petition or by an alien in the United States applying for change of status to L classification under a blanket petition shall be filed with the Service office at which the blanket petition was filed.
(ii)
Procedures.
(A) When one qualifying organization listed in an approved blanket petition wishes to transfer an alien outside the United States to a qualifying organization in the United States and the alien requires a visa to enter the United States, that organization shall complete Form I-129S, Certificate of Eligibility for Intracompany Transferee under a Blanket Petition, in an original and three copies. The qualifying organization shall retain one copy for its records and send the original and two copies to the alien. A copy of the approved Form I-797 must be attached to the original and each copy of Form I-129S.
(B) After receipt of Form I-797 and Form I-129S, a qualified employee who is being transferred to the United States may use these documents to apply for visa issuance with the consular officer within six months of the date on Form I-129S.
(C) When the alien is a visa-exempt nonimmigrant seeking L classification under a blanket petition, or when the alien is in the United States and is seeking a change of status from another nonimmigrant classification to L classification under a blanket petition, the petitioner shall submit Form I-129S, Certificate of Eligibility, and a copy of the approval notice, Form I-797, to the USCIS office with which the blanket petition was filed.
(D) The consular or Service officer shall determine whether the position in which the alien will be employed in the United States is with an organization named in the approved petition and whether the specific job is for a manager, executive, or specialized knowledge professional. The consular or Service officer shall determine further whether the alien's immediate prior year of continuous employment abroad was with an organization named in the petition and was in a position as manager, executive, or specialized knowledge professional.
(E) Consular officers may grant “L” classification only in clearly approvable applications. If the consular officer determines that the alien is eligible for L classification, the consular officer may issue a nonimmigrant visa, noting the visa classification “Blanket L-1” for the principal alien and “Blanket L-2” for any accompanying or following to join spouse and children. The consular officer shall also endorse all copies of the alien's Form I-129S with the blanket L-1 visa classification and return the original and one copy to the alien. When the alien is inspected for entry into the United States, both copies of the Form I-129S shall be stamped to show a validity period not to exceed three years and the second copy collected and sent to the appropriate Regional Service Center for control purposes. Service officers who determine eligibility of aliens for L-1 classification under blanket petitions shall endorse both copies of Form I-129S with the blanket L-1 classification and the validity period not to exceed three years and retain the second copy for Service records.
(F) If the consular officer determines that the alien is ineligible for L classification under a blanket petition, the consular officer's decision shall be final. The consular officer shall record the reasons for the denial on Form I-129S, retain one copy, return the original of I-129S to the USCIS office which approved the blanket petition, and provide a copy to the alien. In such a case, an individual petition may be filed for the alien on the form prescribed by USCIS. The petition shall state the reason the alien was denied L classification and specify the consular office which made the determination and the date of the determination.
(G) An alien admitted under an approved blanket petition may be reassigned to any organization listed in the approved petition without referral to the Service during his/her authorized stay if the alien will be performing virtually the same job duties. If the alien will be performing different job duties, the petitioner shall complete a new Certificate of Eligibility and send it for approval to the director who approved the blanket petition.
(6)
Copies of supporting documents.
The petitioner may submit a legible photocopy of a document in support of the visa petition, in lieu of the original document. However, the original document shall be submitted if requested by the Service.
(7)
Approval of petition
—(i)
General.
The director shall notify the petitioner of the approval of an individual or a blanket petition within 30 days after the date a completed petition has been filed. If additional information is required from the petitioner, the 30 day processing period shall begin again upon receipt of the information. The original Form I-797 received from the USCIS with respect to an approved individual or blanket petition may be duplicated by the petitioner for the beneficiary's use as described in paragraph (l)(13) of this section.
(A)
Individual petition
—(
1
) Form I-797 shall include the beneficiary's name and classification and the petition's period of validity.
(
2
) An individual petition approved under this paragraph shall be valid for the period of established need for the beneficiary's services, not to exceed three years, except where the beneficiary is coming to the United States to open or to be employed in a new office.
(
3
) If the beneficiary is coming to the United States to open or be employed in a new office, the petition may be approved for a period not to exceed one year, after which the petitioner shall demonstrate as required by paragraph (l)(14)(ii) of this section that it is doing business as defined in paragraph (l) (1)(ii)(H) of this section to extend the validity of the petition.
(B)
Blanket petition.
(
1
) Form I-797 shall identify the approved organizations included in the petition and the petition's period of validity.
(
2
) A blanket petition approved under this paragraph shall be valid initially for a period of three years and may be extended indefinitely thereafter if the qualifying organizations have complied with these regulations.
(
3
) A blanket petition may be approved in whole or in part and shall cover only qualifying organizations.
(C)
Amendments.
The petitioner must file an amended petition, with fee, at the USCIS office where the original petition was filed to reflect changes in approved relationships, additional qualifying organizations under a blanket petition, change in capacity of employment (
i.e.,
from a specialized knowledge position to a managerial position), or any information which would affect the beneficiary's eligibility under section 101(a)(15)(L) of the Act.
(ii)
Spouse and dependents.
The spouse and unmarried minor children of the beneficiary are entitled to L nonimmigrant classification, subject to the same period of admission and limits as the beneficiary, if the spouse and unmarried minor children are accompanying or following to join the beneficiary in the United States. Neither the spouse nor any child may accept employment unless he or she has been granted employment authorization.
(8)
Denial of petition
—(i)
Individual petition.
If an individual is denied, the petitioner shall be notified within 30 days after the date a completed petition has been filed of the denial, the reasons for the denial, and the right to appeal the denial.
(ii)
Blanket petition.
If a blanket petition is denied in whole or in part, the petitioner shall be notified within 30 days after the date a completed petition has been filed of the denial, the reasons for the denial, and the right to appeal the denial. If the petition is denied in part, the USCIS office issuing the denial shall forward to the petitioner, along with the denial, a Form I-797 listing those organizations which were found to quality. If the decision to deny is reversed on appeal, a new Form I-797 shall be sent to the petitioner to reflect the changes made as a result of the appeal.
(9)
Revocation of approval of individual and blanket petitions
—(i)
General.
The director may revoke a petition at any time, even after the expiration of the petition.
(ii)
Automatic revocation.
The approval of any individual or blanket petition is automatically revoked if the petitioner withdraws the petition or the petitioner fails to request indefinite validity of a blanket petition.
(iii)
Revocation on notice.
(A) The director shall send to the petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the petition in relevant part if he/she finds that:
(
1
) One or more entities are no longer qualifying organizations;
(
2
) The alien is no longer eligible under section 101(a)(15)(L) of the Act;
(
3
) A qualifying organization(s) violated requirements of section 101(a)(15)(L) and these regulations;
(
4
) The statement of facts contained in the petition was not true and correct; or
(
5
) Approval of the petition involved gross error; or
(
6
) None of the qualifying organizations in a blanket petition have used the blanket petition procedure for three consecutive years.
(B) The notice of intent to revoke shall contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation and the time period allowed for the petitioner's rebuttal. Upon receipt of this notice, the petitioner may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of the notice. The director shall consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to revoke the petition in whole or in part. If a blanket petition is revoked in part, the remainder of the petition shall remain approved, and a revised Form I-797 shall be sent to the petitioner with the revocation notice.
(iv)
Status of beneficiaries.
If an individual petition is revoked, the beneficiary shall be required to leave the United States, unless the beneficiary has obtained other work authorization from the Service. If a blanket petition is revoked and the petitioner and beneficiaries already in the United States are otherwise eligible for L classification, the director shall extend the blanket petition for a period necessary to support the stay of those blanket L beneficiaries. The approval notice, Form I-171C, shall include only the names of qualifying organizations and covered beneficiaries. No new beneficiaries may be classified or admitted under this limited extension.
(10)
Appeal of denial or revocation of individual or blanket petition.
(i) A petition denied in whole or in part may be appealed under 8 CFR part 103. Since the determination on the Certificate of Eligibility, Form I-129S, is part of the petition process, a denial or revocation of approval of an I-129S is appealable in the same manner as the petition.
(ii) A petition that has been revoked on notice in whole or in part may be appealed under part 103 of this chapter. Automatic revocations may not be appealed.
(11)
Admission.
A beneficiary may apply for admission to the United States only while the individual or blanket petition is valid. The beneficiary of an individual petition shall not be admitted for a date past the validity period of the petition. The beneficiary of a blanket petition may be admitted for three years even though the initial validity period of the blanket petition may expire before the end of the three-year period. If the blanket petition will expire while the alien is in the United States, the burden is on the petitioner to file for indefinite validity of the blanket petition or to file an individual petition in the alien's behalf to support the alien's status in the United States. The admission period for any alien under section 101(a)(15)(L) shall not exceed three years unless an extension of stay is granted pursuant to paragraph (l)(15) of this section.
(12)
L-1 limitation on period of stay
—(i)
Limits.
An alien who has spent five years in the United States in a specialized knowledge capacity or seven years in the United States in a managerial or executive capacity under section 101(a)(15) (L) and/or (H) of the Act may not be readmitted to the United States under section 101(a)(15) (L) or (H) of the Act unless the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States, except for brief visits for business or pleasure, for the immediate prior year. Such visits do not interrupt the one year abroad, but do not count towards fulfillment of that requirement. In view of this restriction, a new individual petition may not be approved for an alien who has spent the maximum time period in the United States under section 101(a)(15) (L) and/or (H) of the Act, unless the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States, except for brief visits for business or pleasure, for the immediate prior year. The petitioner shall provide information about
the alien's employment, place of residence, and the dates and purpose of any trips to the United States for the previous year. A consular or Service officer may not grant L classification under a blanket petition to an alien who has spent five years in the United States as a professional with specialized knowledge or seven years in the United States as a manager or executive, unless the alien has met the requirements contained in this paragraph.
(ii)
Exceptions.
The limitations of paragraph (l)(12)(i) of this section shall not apply to aliens who do not reside continually in the United States and whose employment in the United States is seasonal, intermittent, or consists of an aggregate of six months or less per year. In addition, the limitations will not apply to aliens who reside abroad and regularly commute to the United States to engage in part-time employment. The petitioner and the alien must provide clear and convincing proof that the alien qualifies for an exception. Clear and convincing proof shall consist of evidence such as arrival and departure records, copies of tax returns, and records of employment abroad.
(13)
Beneficiary's use of Form I-797 and Form I-129S
—(i)
Beneficiary of an individual petition.
The beneficiary of an individual petition who does not require a nonimmigrant visa may present a copy of Form I-797 at a port of entry to facilitate entry into the United States. The copy of Form I-797 shall be retained by the beneficiary and presented during the validity of the petition (provided that the beneficiary is entering or reentering the United States) for entry and reentry to resume the same employment with the same petitioner (within the validity period of the petition) and to apply for an extension of stay. A beneficiary who is required to present a visa for admission and whose visa will have expired before the date of his or her intended return may use an original Form I-797 to apply for a new or revalidated visa during the validity period of the petition and to apply for an extension of stay.
(ii)
Beneficiary of a blanket petition.
Each alien seeking L classification and admission under a blanket petition shall present a copy of Form I-797 and a Form I-129S from the petitioner which identifies the position and organization from which the employee is transferring, the new organization and position to which the employee is destined, a description of the employee's actual duties for both the new and former positions, and the positions, dates, and locations of previous L stays in the United States. A current copy of Form I-797 and Form I-129S should be retained by the beneficiary and used for leaving and reentering the United States to resume employment with a qualifying organization during his/her authorized period of stay, for applying for a new or revalidated visa, and for applying for readmission at a port of entry. The alien may be readmitted even though reassigned to a different organization named on the Form I-797 than the one shown on Form I-129S if the job duties are virtually the same.
(14)
Extension of visa petition validity
—(i)
Individual petition.
The petitioner shall file a petition extension on Form I-129 to extend an individual petition under section 101(a)(15)(L) of the Act. Except in those petitions involving new offices, supporting documentation is not required, unless requested by the director. A petition extension may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
(ii)
New offices.
A visa petition under section 101(a)(15)(L) which involved the opening of a new office may be extended by filing a new application or petition, accompanied by the following:
(A) Evidence that the United States and foreign entities are still qualifying organizations as defined in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(G) of this section;
(B) Evidence that the United States entity has been doing business as defined in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(H) of this section for the previous year;
(C) A statement of the duties performed by the beneficiary for the previous year and the duties the beneficiary will perform under the extended petition;
(D) A statement describing the staffing of the new operation, including the number of employees and types of positions held accompanied by evidence of
wages paid to employees when the beneficiary will be employed in a managerial or executive capacity; and
(E) Evidence of the financial status of the United States operation.
(iii)
Blanket petitions
—(A)
Extension procedure.
A blanket petition may only be extended indefinitely by filing a new Form I-129 with a copy of the previous approval notice and a report of admissions during the preceding three years. The report of admissions shall include a list of the aliens admitted under the blanket petition during the preceding three years, including positions held during that period, the employing entity, and the dates of initial admission and final departure of each alien. The petitioner shall state whether it still meets the criteria for filing a blanket petition and shall document any changes in approved relationships and additional qualifying organizations.
(B)
Other conditions.
If the petitioner in an approved blanket petition fails to request indefinite validity or if indefinite validity is denied, the petitioner and its other qualifying organizations shall seek L classification by filing individual petitions until another three years have expired; after which the petitioner may seek approval of a new blanket petition.
(15)
Extension of stay.
(i) In individual petitions, the petitioner must apply for the petition extension and the alien's extension of stay concurrently on Form ­I-129. When the alien is a beneficiary under a blanket petition, a new certificate of eligibility, accompanied by a copy of the previous approved certificate of eligibility, shall be filed by the petitioner to request an extension of the alien's stay. The petitioner must also request a petition extension. The dates of extension shall be the same for the petition and the beneficiary's extension of stay. The beneficiary must be physically present in the United States at the time the extension of stay is filed. Even though the requests to extend the visa petition and the alien's stay are combined on the petition, the director shall make a separate determination on each. If the alien is required to leave the United States for business or personal reasons while the extension requests are pending, the petitioner may request the director to cable notification of approval of the petition extension to the consular office abroad where the alien will apply for a visa.
(ii) An extension of stay may be authorized in increments of up to two years for beneficiaries of individual and blanket petitions. The total period of stay may not exceed five years for aliens employed in a specialized knowledge capacity. The total period of stay for an alien employed in a managerial or executive capacity may not exceed seven years. No further extensions may be granted. When an alien was initially admitted to the United States in a specialized knowledge capacity and is later promoted to a managerial or executive position, he or she must have been employed in the managerial or executive position for at least six months to be eligible for the total period of stay of seven years. The change to managerial or executive capacity must have been approved by the Service in an amended, new, or extended petition at the time that the change occurred.
(16)
Effect of filing an application for or approval of a permanent labor certification, preference petition, or filing of an application for adjustment of status on L-1 classification.
An alien may legitimately come to the United States for a temporary period as an L-1 nonimmigrant and, at the same time, lawfully seek to become a permanent resident of the United States provided he or she intends to depart voluntarily at the end of his or her authorized stay. The filing of an application for or approval of a permanent labor certification, an immigrant visa preference petition, or the filing of an application of readjustment of status for an L-1 nonimmigrant shall not be the basis for denying:
(i) An L-1 petition filed on behalf of the alien,
(ii) A request to extend an L-1 petition which had previously been filed on behalf of the alien;
(iii) An application for admission as an L-1 nonimmigrant by the alien, or as an L-2 nonimmigrant by the spouse or child of such alien;
(iv) An application for change of status to H-1 or L-2 nonimmigrant filed
by the alien, or to H-1, H-4, or L-1 status filed by the L-2 spouse or child of such alien;
(v) An application for change of status to H-4 nonimmigrant filed by the L-1 nonimmigrant, if his or her spouse has been approved for classification as an H-1; or
(vi) An application for extension of stay filed by the alien, or by the L-2 spouse or child of such alien.
(17)
Filing of individual petitions and certifications under blanket petitions for citizens of Canada under the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada (USMCA)
—(i)
Individual petitions.
Except as provided in paragraph (1)(2)(ii) of this section (filing of blanket petitions), a United States or foreign employer seeking to classify a citizen of Canada as an intracompany transferee may file an individual petition in duplicate on the form prescribed by USCIS in conjunction with an application for admission of the citizen of Canada. Such filing may be made with an immigration officer at a Class A port of entry located on the United States-Canada land border or at a United States pre-clearance/pre-flight station in Canada. The petitioning employer need not appear, but the form prescribed by USCIS must bear the authorized signature of the petitioner.
(ii)
Certification of eligibility for intracompany transferee under the blanket petition.
An immigration officer at a location identified in paragraph (1)(17)(i) of this section may determine eligibility of individual citizens of Canada seeking L classification under approved blanket petitions. At these locations, such citizens of Canada shall present the original and two copies of Form I-129S, Intracompany Transferee Certificate of Eligibility, prepared by the approved organization, as well as three copies of Form I-797, Notice of Approval of Nonimmigrant Visa Petition.
(iii) Nothing in this section shall preclude or discourage the advance filing of petitions and certificates of eligibility in accordance with paragraph (l)(2) of this section.
(iv)
Deficient or deniable petitions or certificates of eligibility.
If a petition or certificate of eligibility submitted concurrently with an application for admission is lacking necessary supporting documentation or is otherwise deficient, the inspecting immigration officer shall return it to the applicant for admission in order to obtain the necessary documentation from the petitioner or for the deficiency to be overcome. The fee to file the petition will be remitted at such time as the documentary or other deficiency is overcome. If the petition or certificate of eligibility is clearly deniable, the immigration officer will accept the petition (with fee) and the petitioner shall be notified of the denial, the reasons for denial, and the right of appeal. If a formal denial order cannot be issued by the port of entry, the petition with a recommendation for denial shall be forwarded to the appropriate Service Center for final action. For the purposes of this provision, the appropriate Service Center will be the one within the same Service region as the location where the application for admission is made.
(v)
Spouse and dependent minor children accompanying or following to join.
(A) The Canadian citizen spouse and Canadian citizen unmarried minor children of a Canadian citizen admitted under this paragraph shall be entitled to the same nonimmigrant classification and same length of stay subject to the same limits as the principal alien. They shall not be required to present visas, and they shall be admitted under the classification symbol L-2.
(B) A non-Canadian citizen spouse or non-Canadian citizen unmarried minor child shall be entitled to the same nonimmigrant classification and the same length of stay subject to the same limits as the principal, but shall be required to present a visa upon application for admission as an L-2 unless otherwise exempt under § 212.1 of this chapter.
(C) The spouse and dependent minor children shall not accept employment in the United States unless otherwise authorized under the Act.
(18)
Denial of intracompany transferee status to citizens of Canada or Mexico in the case of certain labor disputes.
(i) If the Secretary of Labor certifies to or otherwise informs the Commissioner
that a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers is in progress where the beneficiary is to be employed, and the temporary entry of the beneficiary may affect adversely the settlement of such labor dispute or the employment of any person who is involved in such dispute, a petition to classify a citizen of Mexico or Canada as an L-1 intracompany transferee may be denied. If a petition has already been approved, but the alien has not yet entered the United States, or has entered the United States but not yet commenced employment, the approval of the petition may be suspended, and an application for admission on the basis of the petition may be denied.
(ii) If there is a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers in progress, but such strike or other labor dispute is not certified under paragraph (l)(18)(i) of this section, or the Service has not otherwise been informed by the Secretary that such a strike or labor dispute is in progress, the Commissioner shall not deny a petition or suspend an approved petition.
(iii) If the alien has already commended employment in the United States under an approved petition and is participating in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, whether or not such strike or other labor dispute has been certified by the Department of Labor, the alien shall not be deemed to be failing to maintain his or her status solely on account of past, present, or future participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, but is subject to the following terms and conditions.
(A) The alien shall remain subject to all applicable provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and regulations promulgated in the same manner as all other L nonimmigrants;
(B) The status and authorized period of stay of such an alien is not modified or extended in any way by virtue of his or her participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving work stoppage of workers; and
(C) Although participation by an L nonimmigrant alien in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers will not constitute a ground for deportation, any alien who violates his or her status or who remains in the United States after his or her authorized period of stay has expired will be subject to deportation.
(m)
Students in established vocational or other recognized nonacademic institutions, other than in language training programs.
Table 4 to Paragraph (
m
)—Paragraph Contents
(1) Admission of student
(2) Form I-20 ID copy
(3) Admission of the spouse and minor children of an M-1 student
(4) Temporary absence
(5) Period of stay
(6)-(8) [Reserved]
(9) Full course of study
(10) Extension of stay
(11) School transfer
(12) Change in educational objective
(13) Employment
(14) Practical training
(15) Decision on application for extension, permission to transfer to another school, or permission to accept employment for practical training
(16) Reinstatement to student status
(17) Spouse and children of M-1 student
(18) Current name and address
(19) Special rules for certain border commuter students
(20) Remittance of the fee
(1)
Admission of student
—(i)
Eligibility for admission.
A nonimmigrant student may be admitted into the United States in nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act, if:
(A) The student presents a Form I-20 or successor form issued in the student's own name by a school certified by SEVP for attendance by M-1 foreign students;
(B) The student has documentary evidence of financial support in the amount indicated on the Form I-20 or successor form; and
(C) For students seeking initial admission only, the student intends to attend the school specified in the student's visa (or, where the student is exempt from the requirement for a visa, the school indicated on the Form I-20 or successor form.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii)
Use of SEVIS.
Schools must issue a Form I-20 or successor form in SEVIS to any current student requiring a reportable action (
e.g.,
extension of stay, practical training, and requests for employment authorization) or a new Form I-20 or successor form, or for any aliens who must obtain a new nonimmigrant student visa.
(2)
Student maintenance of Form I-20 or successor form.
An M-1 student is expected to retain for safekeeping the initial Form I-20 or successor form bearing the admission number and any subsequent Form I-20 or successor form issued to the student. Should the student lose their current Form I-20 or successor form, a replacement copy bearing the same information as the lost copy, including any endorsement for employment and notations, should be issued by the DSO as defined in § 214.3(l)(1).
(3)
Admission of the spouse and minor children of an M-1 student.
The spouse and minor children accompanying an M-1 student are eligible for admission in M-2 status if the student is admitted in M-1 status. The spouse and minor children following-to-join an M-1 student are eligible for admission to the United States in M-2 status if they are able to demonstrate that the M-1 student has been admitted and is, or will be within 30 days, enrolled in a full course of study, or engaged in approved practical training following completion of studies. In either case, at the time they seek admission, the eligible spouse and minor children of an M-1 student must individually present a Form I-20 or successor form issued in the name of each M-2 dependent issued by a school certified by SEVP for attendance by M-1 students. A new Form I-20 or successor form is required for a dependent where there has been any substantive change in the M-1 student's current information.
(4)
Temporary absence
—(i)
General.
An M-1 student returning to the United States from a temporary absence to attend the school which the student was previously authorized to attend must present either—
(A) A properly endorsed Form I-20 or successor form if there has been no substantive change in the information on the student's most recent Form I-20 or successor form since the form was initially issued; or
(B) A new Form I-20 or successor form if there has been any substantive change in the information on the student's most recent Form I-20 or successor form since the form was initially issued.
(ii)
Student who transferred between schools.
If an M-1 student has been authorized to transfer between schools and is returning to the United States from a temporary absence in order to attend the school to which transfer was authorized as indicated on the student's Form I-20 or successor form, the name of the transfer-in school does not need to be specified in the student's visa.
(5)
Period of stay.
A student in M nonimmigrant status is admitted for a fixed time period, which is the period necessary to complete the course of study indicated on the Form 1-20 or successor form, plus practical training following completion of the course of study, plus an additional 30 days to depart the United States, but not to exceed a total period of one year. An M-1 student may be admitted for a period up to 30 days before the report date or start date of the course of study listed on the Form 1-20 or successor form. An M-1 student who fails to maintain a full course of study or otherwise fails to maintain status is not eligible for the additional 30-day period of stay.
(6)-(8) [Reserved]
(9)
Full course of study.
Successful completion of the course of study must lead to the attainment of a specific educational or vocational objective. A course of study at an institution not certified for attendance by foreign students as provided in § 214.3(a)(3) does not satisfy this requirement. A “full course of study” as required by section 101(a)(15)(M)(i) of the Act means—
(i)
Community college or junior college.
Study at a community college or junior college, certified by a school official to consist of at least twelve semester or quarter hours of instruction per academic term in those institutions using standard semester, trimester, or quarter-hour systems, where all students enrolled for a minimum of twelve semester or quarter hours are charged full-time tuition or considered full-
time for other administrative purposes, or its equivalent (as determined by SEVP in the school certification process) except when the student needs a lesser course load to complete the course of study during the current term;
(ii)
Postsecondary vocational or business school.
Study at a postsecondary vocational or business school, other than in a language training program except as provided in § 214.3(a)(2)(iv), which confers upon its graduates recognized associate or other degrees or has established that its credits have been and are accepted unconditionally by at least three other institutions of higher learning which are either:
(A) A school (or school system) owned and operated as a public educational institution by the United States or a State or political subdivision thereof; or
(B) A school accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body; and which has been certified by a designated school official to consist of at least 12 clock hours of instruction a week, or its equivalent as determined by SEVP in the school certification process;
(iii) Study in a vocational or other nonacademic curriculum, other than in a language training program except as provided in § 214.3(a)(2)(iv), certified by a designated school official to consist of at least eighteen clock hours of attendance a week if the dominant part of the course of study consists of classroom instruction, or at least twenty-two clock hours a week if the dominant part of the course of study consists of shop or laboratory work; or
(iv) Study in a vocational or other nonacademic high school curriculum, certified by a designated school official to consist of class attendance for not less than the minimum number of hours a week prescribed by the school for normal progress towards graduation.
(v)
On-line courses/distance education programs.
No on-line or distance education classes may be considered to count toward an M-1 student's full course of study requirement if such classes do not require the student's physical attendance for classes, examination or other purposes integral to completion of the class. An on-line or distance education course is a course that is offered principally through the use of television, audio, or computer transmission including open broadcast, closed circuit, cable, microwave, or satellite, audio conferencing, or computer conferencing.
(vi)
Reduced course load.
The designated school official may authorize an M-1 student to engage in less than a full course of study only where the student has been compelled by illness or a medical condition that has been documented by a licensed medical doctor, a licensed doctor of osteopathy, a licensed psychologist, or a licensed clinical psychologist to interrupt or reduce their course of study. A DSO may not authorize a reduced course load for more than an aggregate of 5 months per course of study. An M-1 student previously authorized to drop below a full course of study due to illness or medical condition for an aggregate of 5 months, may not be authorized by the DSO to reduce their course load on subsequent occasions during their particular course of study.
(A) [Reserved]
(B)
Reporting requirements.
In order for a student to be authorized to drop below a full course of study, the DSO must update SEVIS prior to the student reducing their load.
(10)
Extension of stay
—(i)
Eligibility.
The cumulative time of extensions that can be granted to an M-1 student is limited to a period of 3 years from the M-1 student's original start date, plus 30 days. No extension can be granted to an M-1 student if the M-1 student is unable to complete the course of study within 3 years of the original program start date. This limit includes extensions that have been granted due to a drop below full course of study, a transfer of schools, or reinstatement. An M-1 student may be granted an extension of stay if it is established that:
(A) He or she is a bona fide nonimmigrant currently maintaining student status;
(B) Compelling educational or medical reasons have resulted in a delay to his or her course of study. Delays caused by academic probation or suspension are not acceptable reasons for program extension; and
(C) He or she is able to, and in good faith intends to, continue to maintain that status for the period for which the extension is granted.
(ii)
Application.
A student must apply to USCIS for an extension on Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status or successor form. A student's M-2 spouse and children seeking an extension of stay must be included in the application. The student must submit the application at least 15 days but not more than 60 days before the program end date on the student's Form I-20 or successor form. The application must also be accompanied by the student's Form I-20 or successor form and the Form I-94 of the student's spouse and children, if applicable.
(iii)
Period of stay.
If an application for extension is granted, the student and the student's spouse and children, if applicable, are to be given an extension of stay for the period of time necessary to complete the course of study, plus 30 days within which to depart from the United States, or for a total period of one year, whichever is less. A student's M-2 spouse and children are not eligible for an extension unless the M-1 student is granted an extension of stay, or for a longer period than is granted to the M-1 student.
(iv)
SEVIS update.
The Form I-20 or successor form must be endorsed with the recommendation and new program end date for submission to USCIS, with Form I-539 or successor form, and Form I-94 if applicable.
(11)
School transfer
—(i)
Eligibility.
An M-1 student may not transfer to another school after six months from the date the student is first admitted as, or changes nonimmigrant classification to that of, an M-1 student unless the student is unable to remain at the school to which the student was initially admitted due to circumstances beyond the student's control. An M-1 student may be otherwise eligible to transfer to another school if the student—
(A) Is a bona fide nonimmigrant;
(B) Has been pursuing a full course of study at the school the student was last authorized to attend;
(C) Intends to pursue a full course of study at the school to which the student intends to transfer; and
(D) Is financially able to attend the school to which the student intends to transfer.
(ii)
Transfer procedure.
A student must apply to USCIS on Form I-539 or successor form, for permission to transfer between schools. Upon application for school transfer, a student may affect the transfer subject to approval of the application. A student who transfers without complying with this requirement or whose application is denied after transfer (pursuant to this section) is considered to be out of status. If the application is approved, the approval date of the transfer will be determined to be the program start date listed on the Form I-20 or successor form, and the student will be granted an extension of stay for the period of time necessary to complete the new course of study plus 30 days, or for a total period of one year, whichever is less. The student must first notify their current school (the “transfer-out” school) of the intent to transfer and indicate the school to which the student intends to transfer (the “transfer-in” school). Upon notification by the student, the transfer-out school must update SEVIS to show the student is transferring out, indicate the transfer-in school, and input the transfer release date. Once SEVIS is updated, the transfer-in school may generate a Form I-20 or successor form for transfer. However, the transfer-in school will not gain access to the student's SEVIS record until the release date. Upon receipt of the Form I-20 or successor form from the transfer-in school, the student must submit Form I-539 or successor form in accordance with this paragraph (m)(11). The student may enroll in the transfer-in school at the next available term or session and is required to notify the DSO of the transfer-in school immediately upon beginning attendance. The transfer-in school must update the student's registration record in SEVIS in accordance with § 214.3(g)(2)(iii). Upon approval of the transfer application, USCIS will transmit the approval of the transfer to SEVIS. If the application for transfer is denied, the student is out of status, and the student's record must be terminated in SEVIS.
(iii)
Student who has not been pursuing a full course of study.
If an M-1 student who has not been pursuing a full course of study at the school the student was last authorized to attend desires to attend a different school, the student must apply for reinstatement to student status under paragraph (m)(16) of this section.
(12)
Change in educational objective.
An M-1 student may not change educational objective.
(13)
Employment.
Except as provided in paragraph (m)(14) of this section, a student may not accept employment.
(14)
Practical training
—(i)
When practical training may be authorized.
Temporary employment for practical training may be authorized only after completion of the student's course of study.
(A) The proposed employment is recommended for the purpose of practical training;
(B) The proposed employment is related to the student's course of study; and
(C) Upon the designated school official's information and belief, employment comparable to the proposed employment is not available to the student in the country of the student's foreign residence.
(ii)
Application.
An M-1 student must apply for permission to accept employment for practical training on Form I-765, with fee as contained in 8 CFR part 106, accompanied by a properly endorsed Form I-20 by the designated school official for practical training. The application must be submitted before the program end date listed on the student's Form I-20 but not more than 90 days before the program end date. The designated school official must certify on Form I-538 that:
(A) The proposed employment is recommended for the purpose of practical training;
(B) The proposed employment is related to the student's course of study; and
(C) Upon the designated school official's information and belief, employment comparable to the proposed employment is not available to the student in the country of the student's foreign residence.
(iii)
Duration of practical training.
When the student is authorized to engage in employment for practical training, they will be issued an EAD. The M-1 student may not begin employment until he or she has been issued an EAD by USCIS. One month of employment authorization will be granted for each four months of full-time study that the M-1 student has completed. However, an M-1 student may not engage in more than six months of practical training in the aggregate. The student will not be granted employment authorization if he or she cannot complete the requested practical training within six months.
(iv)
Temporary absence of M-1 student granted practical training.
An M-1 student who has been granted permission to accept employment for practical training and who temporarily departs from the United States, may be readmitted for the remainder of the authorized period indicated on the student's Form I-20 or successor form. The student must be returning to the United States to perform the authorized practical training. A student may not be readmitted to begin practical training which was not authorized prior to the student's departure from the United States.
(v)
Effect of strike or other labor dispute.
Authorization for all employment for practical training is automatically suspended upon certification by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's designee to the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Secretary's designee that a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers is in progress in the occupation at the place of employment. As used in this paragraph (m)(14)(v), “place of employment” means wherever the employer or joint employer does business.
(vi)
SEVIS process.
The DSO must update the student's record in SEVIS to recommend that USCIS approve the student for practical training, and generate a SEVIS Form I-20 with the recommendation, for the student to submit to USCIS with Form I-765 as provided in this paragraph (m)(14).
(15)
Decision on application for extension, permission to transfer to another school, or permission to accept employment for practical training.
USCIS will
notify the applicant of the decision and, if the application is denied, of the reason(s) for the denial. The applicant may not appeal the decision.
(16)
Reinstatement to student status
—(i)
General.
USCIS may consider reinstating a student who makes a request for reinstatement on Form I-539, Application to Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status or successor form, accompanied by a properly completed Form I-20 or successor form indicating the DSO's recommendation for reinstatement. USCIS may consider granting the request only if the student:
(A) Has not been out of status for more than 5 months at the time of filing the request for reinstatement (or demonstrates that the failure to file within the 5 month period was the result of exceptional circumstances and that the student filed the request for reinstatement as promptly as possible under these exceptional circumstances);
(B) Does not have a record of repeated or willful violations of DHS regulations;
(C) Is currently pursuing, or intends to pursue, a full course of study at the school which issued the Form I-20 or successor form;
(D) Has not engaged in unlawful employment;
(E) Is not deportable on any ground other than section 237(a)(1)(B) or (C)(i) of the Act; and
(F) Establishes to the satisfaction of USCIS, by a detailed showing, either that:
(
1
) The violation of status resulted from circumstances beyond the student's control. Such circumstances might include serious injury or illness, closure of the institution, a natural disaster, or inadvertence, oversight or neglect on the part of the DSO, but do not include instances where a pattern of repeated violations or where a willful failure on the part of the student resulted in the need for reinstatement; or
(
2
) The violation relates to a reduction in the student's course load that would have been within a DSO's power to authorize, and that failure to approve reinstatement would result in extreme hardship to the student.
(ii)
Decision.
The adjudicating officer will update SEVIS to reflect USCIS's decision. If USCIS does not reinstate the student, the student may not appeal the decision.
(17)
Spouse and children of M-1 student.
The M-2 spouse and minor children of an M-1 student will each be issued an individual Form I-20 or successor form in accordance with the provisions of § 214.3(k).
(i)
Employment.
The M-2 spouse and children may not accept employment.
(ii)
Study
—(A)
M-2 post-secondary/vocational study
—(
1
)
Authorized study at SEVP-certified schools.
An M-2 spouse or M-2 child may enroll in less than a full course of study, as defined in paragraphs (f)(6)(i)(A) through (D) or (m)(9)(i) through (v), in any course of study described in paragraphs (f)(6)(i)(A) through (D) or (m)(9)(i) through (v) of this section at an SEVP-certified school. Notwithstanding paragraphs (f)(6)(i)(B) and (m)(9)(i) of this section, study at an undergraduate college or university or at a community college or junior college is not a full course of study solely because the M-2 nonimmigrant is engaging in a lesser course load to complete a course of study during the current term. An M-2 spouse or M-2 child enrolled in less than a full course of study is not eligible to engage in employment pursuant to paragraph (m)(14) of this section or pursuant to paragraphs (f)(9) through (10) of this section.
(
2
)
Full course of study.
Subject to paragraph (m)(17)(ii)(B) of this section, an M-2 spouse and child may engage in a full course of study only by applying for and obtaining a change of status to F-1, M-1, or J-1 status, as appropriate, before beginning a full course of study. An M-2 spouse and M-2 child may engage in study that is avocational or recreational in nature, up to and including on a full-time basis.
(B)
M-2 elementary or secondary study.
An M-2 child may engage in full-time study, including any full course of study, in any elementary or secondary school (kindergarten through twelfth grade).
(C) An M-2 spouse or child violates his or her nonimmigrant status by enrolling in any study except as provided
in paragraph (m)(17)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(18)
Current name and address.
A student must inform DHS and the DSO of any legal changes to the student's name or of any change of address, within 10 days of the change, in a manner prescribed by the school. A student can satisfy the requirement in 8 CFR 265.1 of notifying DHS by providing a notice of a change of address within 10 days to the DSO, and the DSO in turn must enter the information in SEVIS within 21 days of notification by the student. Except in the case of a student who cannot receive mail where the student resides, the address provided by the student must be the actual physical location where the student resides rather than a mailing address. In cases where a student provides a mailing address, the school must maintain a record of, and must provide upon request from DHS, the actual physical location where the student resides.
(19)
Special rules for certain border commuter students
—(i)
Applicability.
For purposes of the special rules in this paragraph (m)(19), the term “border commuter student” means a national of Canada or Mexico who is admitted to the United States as an M-1 student to enroll in a full course of study, albeit on a part-time basis, in a certified school located within 75 miles of a United States land border. The border commuter student must maintain actual residence and place of abode in the student's country of nationality, and seek admission to the United States at a land border port-of-entry. These special rules do not apply to a national of Canada or Mexico who is:
(A) Residing in the United States while attending a certified school as an M-1 student; or
(B) Enrolled in a full course of study as defined in paragraph (m)(9) of this section.
(ii)
Full course of study.
A designated school official at the school may authorize an eligible border commuter student to enroll in a course load below that otherwise required for a full course of study under paragraph (m)(9) of this section, provided that the reduced course load is consistent with the border commuter student's certified course of study.
(iii)
Period of stay.
An M-1 border commuter student is not entitled to an additional 30-day period of stay otherwise available under paragraph (m)(5) of this section.
(iv)
Employment.
A border commuter student may not be authorized to accept any employment in connection with his or her M-1 student status, except for practical training as provided in paragraph (m)(14) of this section.
(20)
Remittance of the fee.
An alien who applies for M-1 or M-3 nonimmigrant status in order to enroll in a program of study at an SEVP-certified vocational educational institution is required to pay the SEVIS fee to DHS, pursuant to § 214.13, except as otherwise provided in that section.
(n)
Certain parents and children of section 101(a)(27)(I) special immigrants
—(1)
Parent of special immigrant.
Upon application, a parent of a child accorded special immigrant status under section 101(a)(27)(I)(i) of the Act may be granted status under section 101(a)(15)(N)(i) of the Act as long as the permanent resident child through whom eligibility is derived remains a child as defined in section 101(b)(1) of the Act.
(2)
Child of section 101(a)(27)(I) special immigrants and section 101(a)(15)(N)(i) nonimmigrants.
Children of parents granted nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(N)(i) of the Act, or of parents who have been granted special immigrant status under section 101(a)(27)(I) (ii), (iii) or (iv) of the Act may be granted status under section 101(a)(15)(N)(ii) of the Act for such time as each remains a child as defined in section 101(b)(1) of the Act.
(3)
Admission and extension of stay.
A nonimmigrant granted (N) status shall be admitted for not to exceed three years with extensions in increments up to but not to exceed three years. Status as an (N) nonimmigrant shall terminate on the date the child described in paragraph (n)(1) or (n)(2) of this section no longer qualifies as a child as defined in section 101(b)(1) of the Act.
(4)
Employment.
A nonimmigrant admitted in or granted (N) status is authorized employment incident to (N) status without restrictions as to location or type of employment.
(o)
Aliens of extraordinary ability or achievement
—(1)
Classifications
—(i)
General.
Under section 101(a)(15)(O) of the Act, a qualified alien may be authorized to come to the United States to perform services relating to an event or events if petitioned for by an employer. Under this nonimmigrant category, the alien may be classified under section 101(a)(15)(O)(i) of the Act as an alien who has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics, or who has a demonstrated record of extraordinary achievement in the motion picture or television industry. Under section 101(a)(15)(O)(ii) of the Act, an alien having a residence in a foreign country which he or she has no intention of abandoning may be classified as an accompanying alien who is coming to assist in the artistic or athletic performance of an alien admitted under section 101(a)(15)(O)(i) of the Act. The spouse or child of an alien described in section 101(a)(15)(O)(i) or (ii) of the Act who is accompanying or following to join the alien is entitled to classification pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(O)(iii) of the Act. These classifications are called the O-1, O-2, and O-3 categories, respectively. The petitioner must file a petition with the Service for a determination of the alien's eligibility for O-1 or O-2 classification before the alien may apply for a visa or seek admission to the United States. This paragraph sets forth the standards and procedures applicable to these classifications.
(ii)
Description of classifications.
(A) An O-1 classification applies to:
(
1
) An individual alien who has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and who is coming temporarily to the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; or
(
2
) An alien who has a demonstrated record of extraordinary achievement in motion picture and/or television productions and who is coming temporarily to the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary achievement.
(B) An O-2 classification applies to an accompanying alien who is coming temporarily to the United States solely to assist in the artistic or athletic performance by an O-1. The O-2 alien must:
(
1
) Be an integral part of the actual performances or events and possess critical skills and experience with the O-1 alien that are not of a general nature and which are not possessed by others; or
(
2
) In the case of a motion picture or television production, have skills and experience with the O-1 alien which are not of a general nature and which are critical, either based on a pre-existing and longstanding working relationship or, if in connection with a specific production only, because significant production (including pre- and post-production) will take place both inside and outside the United States and the continuing participation of the alien is essential to the successful completion of the production.
(2)
Filing of petitions
—(i)
General.
Except as provided for in paragraph (o)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, a petitioner seeking to classify an alien as an O-1 or O-2 nonimmigrant shall file a petition on the form prescribed by USCIS. The petition may not be filed more than one year before the actual need for the alien's services. An O-1 or O-2 petition shall be adjudicated at the appropriate Service Center, even in emergency situations. Only one beneficiary may be included on an O-1 petition. O-2 aliens must be filed for on a separate petition from the O-1 alien. An O-1 or O-2 petition may only be filed by a United States employer, a United States agent, or a foreign employer through a United States agent. For purposes of paragraph (o) of this section, a foreign employer is any employer who is not amenable to service of process in the United States. A foreign employer may not directly petition for an O nonimmigrant alien but instead must use the services of a United States agent to file a petition for an O nonimmigrant alien. A United States agent petitioning on behalf of a foreign employer must be authorized to file the petition, and to accept services of process in the United States in proceedings under section 274A of the Act, on behalf of the foreign employer. An O
alien may not petition for himself or herself.
(ii)
Evidence required to accompany a petition.
Petitions for O aliens shall be accompanied by the following:
(A) The evidence specified in the particular section for the classification;
(B) Copies of any written contracts between the petitioner and the alien beneficiary or, if there is no written contract, a summary of the terms of the oral agreement under which the alien will be employed;
(C) An explanation of the nature of the events or activities, the beginning and ending dates for the events or activities, and a copy of any itinerary for the events or activities; and
(D) A written advisory opinion(s) from the appropriate consulting entity or entities.
(iii)
Form of documentation.
The evidence submitted with an O petition shall conform to the following:
(A) Affidavits, contracts, awards, and similar documentation must reflect the nature of the alien's achievement and be executed by an officer or responsible person employed by the institution, firm, establishment, or organization where the work was performed.
(B) Affidavits written by present or former employers or recognized experts certifying to the recognition and extraordinary ability, or in the case of a motion picture or television production, the extraordinary achievement of the alien, shall specifically describe the alien's recognition and ability or achievement in factual terms and set forth the expertise of the affiant and the manner in which the affiant acquired such information.
(C) A legible photocopy of a document in support of the petition may be submitted in lieu of the original. However, the original document shall be submitted if requested by the Director.
(iv)
Other filing situations
—(A)
Services in more than one location.
A petition which requires the alien to work in more than one location must include an itinerary with the dates and locations of work.
(B)
Services for more than one employer.
If the beneficiary will work concurrently for more than one employer within the same time period, each employer must file a separate petition unless an established agent files the petition.
(C)
Change of employer.
If an O-1 or O-2 alien in the United States seeks to change employers, the new employer must file a petition and a request to extend the alien's stay. An O-2 alien may change employers only in conjunction with a change of employers by the principal O-1 alien. If the O-1 or O-2 petition was filed by an agent, an amended petition must be filed with evidence relating to the new employer and a request for an extension of stay.
(D)
Amended petition.
The petitioner shall file an amended petition on the form prescribed by USCIS, with fee, to reflect any material changes in the terms and conditions of employment or the beneficiary's eligibility as specified in the original approved petition. In the case of a petition filed for an artist or entertainer, a petitioner may add additional performances or engagements during the validity period of the petition without filing an amended petition, provided the additional performances or engagements require an alien of O-1 caliber.
(E)
Agents as petitioners.
A United States agent may file a petition in cases involving workers who are traditionally self-employed or workers who use agents to arrange short-term employment on their behalf with numerous employers, and in cases where a foreign employer authorizes the agent to act in its behalf. A United States agent may be: The actual employer of the beneficiary, the representative of both the employer and the beneficiary; or, a person or entity authorized by the employer to act for, or in place of, the employer as its agent. A petition filed by an agent is subject to the following conditions:
(
1
) An agent performing the function of an employer must provide the contractual agreement between the agent and the beneficiary which specifies the wage offered and the other terms and conditions of employment of the beneficiary.
(
2
) A person or company in business as an agent may file the petition involving multiple employers as the representative of both the employers and the beneficiary, if the supporting documentation includes a complete
itinerary of the event or events. The itinerary must specify the dates of each service or engagement, the names and addresses of the actual employers, and the names and addresses of the establishments, venues, or locations where the services will be performed. A contract between the employers and the beneficiary is required. The burden is on the agent to explain the terms and conditions of the employment and to provide any required documentation.
(
3
) A foreign employer who, through a United States agent, files a petition for an O nonimmigrant alien is responsible for complying with all of the employer sanctions provisions of section 274A of the Act and 8 CFR part 274a.
(F)
Multiple beneficiaries.
More than one O-2 accompanying alien may be included on a petition if they are assisting the same O-1 alien for the same events or performances, during the same period, and in the same location. Up to 25 named beneficiaries may be included per petition.
(G)
Traded professional O-1 athletes.
In the case of a professional O-1 athlete who is traded from one organization to another organization, employment authorization for the player will automatically continue for a period of 30 days after acquisition by the new organization, within which time the new organization is expected to file a new application or petition. If a new application or petition is not filed within 30 days, employment authorization will cease. If a new application or petition is filed within 30 days, the professional athlete shall be deemed to be in valid O-1 status, and employment shall continue to be authorized, until the petition is adjudicated. If the new petition is denied, employment authorization will cease.
(3)
Petition for alien of extraordinary ability or achievement (O-1)
—(i)
General.
Extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics, or extraordinary achievement in the case of an alien in the motion picture or television industry, must be established for an individual alien. An O-1 petition must be accompanied by evidence that the work which the alien is coming to the United States to continue is in the area of extraordinary ability, and that the alien meets the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(iii) or (iv) of this section.
(ii)
Definitions.
As used in this paragraph, the term:
Arts
includes any field of creative activity or endeavor such as, but not limited to, fine arts, visual arts, culinary arts, and performing arts. Aliens engaged in the field of arts include not only the principal creators and performers but other essential persons such as, but not limited to, directors, set designers, lighting designers, sound designers, choreographers, choreologists, conductors, orchestrators, coaches, arrangers, musical supervisors, costume designers, makeup artists, flight masters, stage technicians, and animal trainers.
Event
means an activity such as, but not limited to, a scientific project, conference, convention, lecture series, tour, exhibit, business project, academic year, or engagement. Such activity may include short vacations, promotional appearances, and stopovers which are incidental and/or related to the event. A group of related activities may also be considered to be an event. In the case of an O-1 athlete, the event could be the alien's contract.
Extraordinary ability in the field of arts
means distinction. Distinction means a high level of achievement in the field of arts evidenced by a degree of skill and recognition substantially above that ordinarily encountered to the extent that a person described as prominent is renowned, leading, or well-known in the field of arts.
Extraordinary ability in the field of science, education, business, or athletics
means a level of expertise indicating that the person is one of the small percentage who have arisen to the very top of the field of endeavor.
Extraordinary achievement
with respect to motion picture and television productions, as commonly defined in the industry, means a very high level of accomplishment in the motion picture or television industry evidenced by a degree of skill and recognition significantly above that ordinarily encountered to the extent that the person is recognized as outstanding, notable, or leading in the motion picture or television field.
Peer group
means a group or organization which is comprised of practitioners of the alien's occupation. If there is a collective bargaining representative of an employer's employees in the occupational classification for which the alien is being sought, such a representative may be considered the appropriate peer group for purposes of consultation.
(iii)
Evidentiary criteria for an O-1 alien of extraordinary ability in the fields of science, education, business, or athletics.
An alien of extraordinary ability in the fields of science, education, business, or athletics must demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim and recognition for achievements in the field of expertise by providing evidence of:
(A) Receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, such as the Nobel Prize; or
(B) At least three of the following forms of documentation:
(
1
) Documentation of the alien's receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor;
(
2
) Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields;
(
3
) Published material in professional or major trade publications or major media about the alien, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought, which shall include the title, date, and author of such published material, and any necessary translation;
(
4
) Evidence of the alien's participation on a panel, or individually, as a judge of the work of others in the same or in an allied field of specialization to that for which classification is sought;
(
5
) Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field;
(
6
) Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional journals, or other major media;
(
7
) Evidence that the alien has been employed in a critical or essential capacity for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation;
(
8
) Evidence that the alien has either commanded a high salary or will command a high salary or other remuneration for services, evidenced by contracts or other reliable evidence.
(C) If the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(iii) of this section do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence in order to establish the beneficiary's eligibility.
(iv)
Evidentiary criteria for an O-1 alien of extraordinary ability in the arts.
To qualify as an alien of extraordinary ability in the field of arts, the alien must be recognized as being prominent in his or her field of endeavor as demonstrated by the following:
(A) Evidence that the alien has been nominated for, or has been the recipient of, significant national or international awards or prizes in the particular field such as an Academy Award, an Emmy, a Grammy, or a Director's Guild Award; or
(B) At least three of the following forms of documentation:
(
1
) Evidence that the alien has performed, and will perform, services as a lead or starring participant in productions or events which have a distinguished reputation as evidenced by critical reviews, advertisements, publicity releases, publications contracts, or endorsements;
(
2
) Evidence that the alien has achieved national or international recognition for achievements evidenced by critical reviews or other published materials by or about the individual in major newspapers, trade journals, magazines, or other publications;
(
3
) Evidence that the alien has performed, and will perform, in a lead, starring, or critical role for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation evidenced by articles in newspapers, trade journals, publications, or testimonials;
(
4
) Evidence that the alien has a record of major commercial or critically acclaimed successes as evidenced by such indicators as title, rating, standing in the field, box office receipts, motion pictures or television ratings, and other occupational
achievements reported in trade journals, major newspapers, or other publications;
(
5
) Evidence that the alien has received significant recognition for achievements from organizations, critics, government agencies, or other recognized experts in the field in which the alien is engaged. Such testimonials must be in a form which clearly indicates the author's authority, expertise, and knowledge of the alien's achievements; or
(
6
) Evidence that the alien has either commanded a high salary or will command a high salary or other substantial remuneration for services in relation to others in the field, as evidenced by contracts or other reliable evidence; or
(C) If the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(iv) of this section do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence in order to establish the beneficiary's eligibility.
(v)
Evidentiary criteria for an alien of extraordinary achievement in the motion picture or television industry.
To qualify as an alien of extraordinary achievement in the motion picture or television industry, the alien must be recognized as having a demonstrated record of extraordinary achievement as evidenced by the following:
(A) Evidence that the alien has been nominated for, or has been the recipient of, significant national or international awards or prizes in the particular field such as an Academy Award, an Emmy, a Grammy, or a Director's Guild Award; or
(B) At least three of the following forms of documentation:
(
1
) Evidence that the alien has performed, and will perform, services as a lead or starring participant in productions or events which have a distinguished reputation as evidenced by critical reviews, advertisements, publicity releases, publications contracts, or endorsements;
(
2
) Evidence that the alien has achieved national or international recognition for achievements evidenced by critical reviews or other published materials by or about the individual in major newspapers, trade journals, magazines, or other publications;
(
3
) Evidence that the alien has performed, and will perform, in a lead, starring, or critical role for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation evidenced by articles in newspapers, trade journals, publications, or testimonials;
(
4
) Evidence that the alien has a record of major commercial or critically acclaimed successes as evidenced by such indicators as title, rating, standing in the field, box office receipts, motion picture or television ratings, and other occupational achievements reported in trade journals, major newspapers, or other publications;
(
5
) Evidence that the alien has received significant recognition for achievements from organizations, critics, government agencies, or other recognized experts in the field in which the alien is engaged. Such testimonials must be in a form which clearly indicates the author's authority, expertise, and knowledge of the alien's achievements; or
(
6
) Evidence that the alien has either commanded a high salary or will command a high salary or other substantial remuneration for services in relation to other in the field, as evidenced by contracts or other reliable evidence.
(4)
Petition for an O-2 accompanying alien
—(i)
General.
An O-2 accompanying alien provides essential support to an O-1 artist or athlete. Such aliens may not accompany O-1 aliens in the fields of science, business, or education. Although the O-2 alien must obtain his or her own classification, this classification does not entitle him or her to work separate and apart from the O-1 alien to whom he or she provides support. An O-2 alien must be petitioned for in conjunction with the services of the O-1 alien.
(ii)
Evidentiary criteria for qualifying as an O-2 accompanying alien
—(A)
Alien accompanying an O-1 artist or athlete of extraordinary ability.
To qualify as an O-2 accompanying alien, the alien must be coming to the United States to assist in the performance of the O-1 alien, be an integral part of the actual performance, and have critical skills and experience with the O-1 alien which are not of a general nature and
which are not possessed by a U.S. worker.
(B)
Alien accompanying an O-1 alien of extraordinary achievement.
To qualify as an O-2 alien accompanying and O-1 alien involved in a motion picture or television production, the alien must have skills and experience with the O-1 alien which are not of a general nature and which are critical based on a pre-existing longstanding working relationship or, with respect to the specific production, because significant production (including pre- and post-production work) will take place both inside and outside the United States and the continuing participation of the alien is essential to the successful completion of the production.
(C) The evidence shall establish the current essentiality, critical skills, and experience of the O-2 alien with the O-1 alien and that the alien has substantial experience performing the critical skills and essential support services for the O-1 alien. In the case of a specific motion picture or television production, the evidence shall establish that significant production has taken place outside the United States, and will take place inside the United States, and that the continuing participation of the alien is essential to the successful completion of the production.
(5)
Consultation
—(i)
General.
(A) Consultation with an appropriate U.S. peer group (which could include a person or persons with expertise in the field), labor and/or management organization regarding the nature of the work to be done and the alien's qualifications is mandatory before a petition for an O-1 or O-2 classification can be approved.
(B) Except as provided in paragraph (o)(5)(i)(E) of this section, evidence of consultation shall be in the form of a written advisory opinion from a peer group (which could include a person or persons with expertise in the field), labor and/or management organization with expertise in the specific field involved.
(C) Except as provided in paragraph (o)(5)(i)(E) of this section, the petitioner shall obtain a written advisory opinion from a peer group (which could include a person or persons with expertise in the field), labor, and/or management organization with expertise in the specific field involved. The advisory opinion shall be submitted along with the petition when the petition is filed. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, the advisory opinion must set forth a specific statement of facts which supports the conclusion reached in the opinion. Advisory opinions must be submitted in writing and must be signed by an authorized official of the group or organization.
(D) Except as provided in paragraph (o)(5)(i)(E) and (G) of this section, written evidence of consultation shall be included in the record in every approved O petition. Consultations are advisory and are not binding on the Service.
(E) In a case where the alien will be employed in the field of arts, entertainment, or athletics, and the Service has determined that a petition merits expeditious handling, the Service shall contact the appropriate labor and/or management organization and request an advisory opinion if one is not submitted by the petitioner. The labor and/or management organization shall have 24 hours to respond to the Service's request. The Service shall adjudicate the petition after receipt of the response from the consulting organization. The labor and/or management organization shall then furnish the Service with a written advisory opinion within 5 days of the initiating request. If the labor and/or management organization fails to respond within 24 hours, the Service shall render a decision on the petition without the advisory opinion.
(F) In a routine processing case where the petition is accompanied by a written opinion from a peer group, but the peer group is not a labor organization, the Director will forward a copy of the petition and all supporting documentation to the national office of the appropriate labor organization within 5 days of receipt of the petition. If there is a collective bargaining representative of an employer's employees in the occupational classification for which the alien is being sought, that representative shall be the appropriate labor organization for purposes of this section. The labor organization will then have 15 days from receipt of the
petition and supporting documents to submit to the Service a written advisory opinion, comment, or letter of no objection. Once the 15-day period has expired, the Director shall adjudicate the petition in no more than 14 days. The Director may shorten this time in his or her discretion for emergency reasons, if no unreasonable burden would be imposed on any participant in the process. If the labor organization does not respond within 15 days, the Director will render a decision on the record without the advisory opinion.
(G) In those cases where it is established by the petitioner that an appropriate peer group, including a labor organization, does not exist, the Service shall render a decision on the evidence of record.
(ii)
Consultation requirements for an O-1 alien for extraordinary ability
—(A)
Content.
Consultation with a peer group in the area of the alien's ability (which may include a labor organization), or a person or persons with expertise in the area of the alien's ability, is required in an O-1 petition for an alien of extraordinary ability. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, the advisory opinion must set forth a specific statement of facts which supports the conclusion reached in the opinion. If the advisory opinion is favorable to the petitioner, it should describe the alien's ability and achievements in the field of endeavor, describe the nature of the duties to be performed, and state whether the position requires the services of an alien of extraordinary ability. A consulting organization may also submit a letter of no objection in lieu of the above if it has no objection to the approval of the petition.
(B)
Waiver of consultation of certain aliens of extraordinary ability in the field of arts.
Consultation for an alien of extraordinary ability in the field of arts shall be waived by the Director in those instances where the alien seeks readmission to the United States to perform similar services within 2 years of the date of a previous consultation. The director shall, within 5 days of granting the waiver, forward a copy of the petition and supporting documentation to the national office of an appropriate labor organization. Petitioners desiring to avail themselves of the waiver should submit a copy of the prior consultation with the petition and advise the Director of the waiver request.
(iii)
Consultation requirements for an O-1 alien of extraordinary achievement.
In the case of an alien of extraordinary achievement who will be working on a motion picture or television production, consultation shall be made with the appropriate union representing the alien's occupational peers and a management organization in the area of the alien's ability. If an advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, the advisory opinion must set forth a specific statement of facts which supports the conclusion reached in the opinion. If the advisory opinion is favorable to the petitioner, the written advisory opinion from the labor and management organizations should describe the alien's achievements in the motion picture or television field and state whether the position requires the services of an alien of extraordinary achievement. If a consulting organization has no objection to the approval of the petition, the organization may submit a letter of no objection in lieu of the above.
(iv)
Consultation requirements for an O-2 accompanying alien.
Consultation with a labor organization with expertise in the skill area involved is required for an O-2 alien accompanying an O-1 alien of extraordinary ability. In the case of an O-2 alien seeking entry for a motion picture or television production, consultation with a labor organization and a management organization in the area of the alien's ability is required. If an advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, the advisory opinion must set forth a specific statement of facts which supports the conclusion reached in the opinion. If the advisory opinion is favorable to the petitioner, the opinion provided by the labor and/or management organization should describe the alien's essentiality to, and working relationship with, the O-1 artist or athlete and state whether there are available U.S. workers who can perform the support services. If the alien will accompany an O-1 alien involved in a motion picture or television production, the advisory
opinion should address the alien's skills and experience with the O-1 alien and whether the alien has a pre-existing longstanding working relationship with the O-1 alien, or whether significant production will take place in the United States and abroad and if the continuing participation of the alien is essential to the successful completion of the production. A consulting organization may also submit a letter of no objection in lieu of the above if it has no objection to the approval of the petition.
(v)
Organizations agreeing to provide advisory opinions.
The Service will list in its Operations Instructions for O classification those peer groups, labor organizations, and/or management organizations which have agreed to provide advisory opinions to the Service and/or petitioners. The list will not be an exclusive or exhaustive list. The Service and petitioners may use other sources, such as publications, to identify appropriate peer groups, labor organizations, and management organizations. Additionally, the Service will list in its Operations Instructions those occupations or fields of endeavor where the nonexistence of an appropriate consulting entity has been verified.
(6)
Approval and validity of petition
—(i)
Approval.
The Director shall consider all of the evidence submitted and such other evidence as may be independently required to assist in the adjudication. The Director shall notify the petitioner of the approval of the petition on Form I-797, Notice of Action. The approval notice shall include the alien beneficiary name, the classification, and the petition's period of validity.
(ii)
Recording the validity of petitions.
Procedures for recording the validity period of petitions are as follows;
(A) If a new O petition is approved before the date the petitioner indicates the services will begin, the approved petition and approval notice shall show the actual dates requested by the petitioner, not to exceed the limit specified by paragraph (o)(6)(iii) of this section or other Service policy.
(B) If a new 0 petition is approved after the date the petitioner indicates the services will begin, the approved petition and approval notice shall generally show a validity period commencing with the date of approval and ending with the date requested by the petitioner, not to exceed the limit specified by paragraph (o)(6)(iii) of this section or other Service policy.
(C) If the period of services requested by the petitioner exceeds the limit specified in paragraph (o)(6)(iii) of this section, the petition shall be approved only up to the limit specified in that paragraph.
(iii)
Validity
—(A)
O-1 petition.
An approved petition for an alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(O)(i) of the Act shall be valid for a period of time determined by the Director to be necessary to accomplish the event or activity, not to exceed 3 years.
(B)
O-2 petition.
An approved petition for an alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(O)(ii) of the Act shall be valid for a period of time determined to be necessary to assist the O-1 alien to accomplish the event or activity, not to exceed 3 years.
(iv)
Spouse and dependents.
The spouse and unmarried minor children of the O-1 or O-2 alien beneficiary are entitled to O-3 nonimmigrant classification, subject to the same period of admission and limitations as the alien beneficiary, if they are accompanying or following to join the alien beneficiary in the United States. Neither the spouse nor a child of the alien beneficiary may accept employment unless he or she has been granted employment authorization.
(7) The petitioner shall be notified of the decision, the reasons for the denial, and the right to appeal the denial under 8 CFR part 103.
(8)
Revocation of approval of petition
—(i)
General.
(A) The petitioner shall immediately notify the Service of any changes in the terms and conditions of employment of a beneficiary which may affect eligibility under section 101(a)(15)(O) of the Act and paragraph (o) of this section. An amended petition should be filed when the petitioner continues to employ the beneficiary. If the petitioner no longer employs the beneficiary, the petitioner shall send a letter explaining the change(s) to the Director who approved the petition.
(B) The Director may revoke a petition at any time, even after the validity of the petition has expired.
(ii)
Automatic revocation.
The approval of an unexpired petition is automatically revoked if the petitioner, or the named employer in a petition filed by an agent, goes out of business, files a written withdrawal of the petition, or notifies the Service that the beneficiary is no longer employed by the petitioner.
(iii)
Revocation on notice
—(A)
Grounds for revocation.
The Director shall send to the petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the petition in relevant part if is determined that:
(
1
) The beneficiary is no longer employed by the petitioner in the capacity specified in the petition;
(
2
) The statement of facts contained in the petition was not true and correct;
(
3
) The petitioner violated the terms or conditions of the approved petition;
(
4
) The petitioner violated the requirements of section 101(a)(15)(O) of the Act or paragraph (o) of this section; or
(
5
) The approval of the petition violated paragraph (o) of this section or involved gross error.
(B)
Notice and decision.
The notice of intent to revoke shall contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation and the time period allowed for the petitioner's rebuttal. The petitioner may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of the date of the notice. The Director shall consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to revoke the petition.
(9)
Appeal of a denial or a revocation of a petition
—(i)
Denial.
A denied petition may be appealed under 8 CFR part 103.
(ii)
Revocation.
A petition that has been revoked on notice may be appealed under 8 CFR part 103. Automatic revocations may not be appealed.
(10)
Admission.
A beneficiary may be admitted to the United States for the validity period of the petition, plus a period of up to 10 days before the validity period begins and 10 days after the validity period ends. The beneficiary may only engage in employment during the validity period of the petition.
(11)
Extension of visa petition validity.
The petitioner shall file a request to extend the validity of the original petition under section 101(a)(15)(O) of the Act on the form prescribed by USCIS, in order to continue or complete the same activities or events specified in the original petition. Supporting documents are not required unless requested by the Director. A petition extension may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
(12)
Extension of stay
—(i)
Extension procedure.
The petitioner shall request extension of the alien's stay to continue or complete the same event or activity by filing an application or petition, accompanied by a statement explaining the reasons for the extension. The petitioner must also request a petition extension. The dates of extension shall be the same for the petition and the beneficiary's extension of stay. The alien beneficiary must be physically present in the United States at the time of filing of the extension of stay. Even though the request to extend the petition and the alien's stay are combined on the petition, the Director shall make a separate determination on each. If the alien leaves the United States for business or personal reasons while the extension requests are pending, the petitioner may request the Director to cable notification of approval of the petition extension to the consular office abroad where the alien will apply for a visa.
(ii)
Extension period.
An extension of stay may be authorized in increments of up to 1 year for an O-1 or O-2 beneficiary to continue or complete the same event or activity for which he or she was admitted plus an additional 10 days to allow the beneficiary to get his or her personal affairs in order.
(iii)
Denial of an extension of stay.
The denial of the request for the alien's extension of temporary stay may not be appealed.
(13)
Effect of approval of a permanent labor certification or filing of a preference petition on O classification.
The approval of a permanent labor certification or the filing of a preference petition for an alien shall not be a basis for denying an O-1 petition, a request to extend such a petition, or the alien's application for admission, change of status, or
extension of stay. The alien may legitimately come to the United States for a temporary period as an O-1 nonimmigrant and depart voluntarily at the end of his or her authorized stay and, at the same time, lawfully seek to become a permanent resident of the United States.
(14)
Effect of a strike.
(i) If the Secretary of Labor certifies to the Commissioner that a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers is in progress in the occupation at the place where the beneficiary is to be employed, and that the employment of the beneficiary would adversely affect the wages and working conditions of U.S. citizens and lawful resident workers:
(A) A petition to classify an alien as a nonimmigrant as defined in section 101(a)(15)(O) of the Act shall be denied; or
(B) If a petition has been approved, but the alien has not yet entered the United States, or has entered the United States but has not commenced employment, the approval of the petition is automatically suspended, and the application for admission on the basis of the petition shall be denied.
(ii) If there is a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers in progress, but such strike or other labor dispute is not certified under paragraph (o)(14)(i) of this section, the Commissioner shall not deny a petition or suspend an approved petition.
(iii) If the alien has already commenced employment in the United States under an approved petition and is participating in a strike or labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, whether or not such strike or other labor dispute has been certified by the Secretary of Labor, the alien shall not be deemed to be failing to maintain his or her status solely on account of past, present, or future participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers but is subject to the following terms and conditions:
(A) The alien shall remain subject to all applicable provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act and regulations promulgated thereunder in the same manner as are all other O nonimmigrants;
(B) The status and authorized period of stay of such an alien is not modified or extended in any way by virtue of his or her participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers; and
(C) Although participation by an O nonimmigrant alien in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers will not constitute a ground for deportation, and alien who violates his or her status or who remains in the United States after his or her authorized period of stay has expired will be subject to deportation.
(15)
Use of approval notice, Form I-797.
The Service shall notify the petitioner of Form I-797 whenever a visa petition or an extension of a visa petition is approved under the O classification. The beneficiary of an O petition who does not require a nonimmigrant visa may present a copy of the approval notice at a Port-of-Entry to facilitate entry into the United States. A beneficiary who is required to present a visa for admission, and who visa will have expired before the date of his or her intended return, may use Form I-797 to apply for a new or revalidated visa during the validity period of the petition. A copy of Form I-797 shall be retained by the beneficiary and presented during the validity of the petition when reentering the United States to resume the same employment with the same petitioner.
(16)
Return transportation requirement.
In the case of an alien who enters the United States under section 101(a)(15(O) of the Act and whose employment terminates for reasons other than voluntary resignation, the employer whose offer of employment formed the basis of such nonimmigrant status and the petitioner are jointly and severally liable for the reasonable cost of return transportation of the alien abroad. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “abroad” means the alien's last place of residence prior to his or her entry into the United States.
(p)
Artists, athletes, and entertainers
—(1)
Classifications
—(i)
General.
Under section 101(a)(15)(P) of the Act, an alien having a residence in a foreign country which he or she has not intention or
abandoning may be authorized to come to the United States temporarily to perform services for an employer or a sponsor. Under the nonimmigrant category, the alien may be classified under section 101(a)(15)(P)(i) of the Act as an alien who is coming to the United States to perform services as an internationally recognized athlete, individually or as part of a group or team, or member of an internationally recognized entertainment group; under section 101(a)(15)(P)(ii) of the Act, who is coming to perform as an artist or entertainer under a reciprocal exchange program; under section 101(a)(15)(P)(iii) of the Act, as an alien who is coming solely to perform, teach, or coach under a program that is culturally unique; or under section 101(a)(15)(P)(iv) of the Act, as the spouse or child of an alien described in section 101(a)(15)(P) (i), (ii), or (iii) of the Act who is accompanying or following to join the alien. These classifications are called P-1, P-2, P-3, and P-4 respectively. The employer or sponsor must file a petition with the Service for review of the services to be performed and for determination of the alien's eligibility for P-1, P-2, or P-3 classification before the alien may apply for a visa or seek admission to the United States. This paragraph sets forth the standards and procedures applicable to these classifications.
(ii)
Description of classification.
(A) A P-1 classification applies to an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States:
(
1
) To perform at specific athletic competition as an athlete, individually or as part of a group or team, at an internationally recognized level or performance, or
(
2
) To perform with, or as an integral and essential part of the performance of, and entertainment group that has been recognized internationally as being outstanding in the discipline for a sustained and substantial period of time, and who has had a sustained and substantial relationship with the group (ordinarily for at least 1 year) and provides functions integral to the performance of the group.
(B) A P-2 classification applies to an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States to perform as an artist or entertainer, individually or as part of a group, or to perform as an integral part of the performance of such a group, and who seeks to perform under a reciprocal exchange program which is between an organization or organizations in the United States and an organization or organizations in one or more foreign states, and which provides for the temporary exchange of artists and entertainers, or groups of artists and entertainers.
(C) A P-3 classification applies to an alien artist or entertainer who is coming temporarily to the United States, either individually or as part of a group, or as an integral part of the performance of the group, to perform, teach, or coach under a commercial or noncommercial program that is culturally unique.
(2)
Filing of petitions
—(i)
General.
A P-1 petition for an athlete or entertainment group shall be filed by a United States employer, a United States sponsoring organization, a United States agent, or a foreign employer through a United States agent. For purposes of paragraph (p) of this section, a foreign employer is any employer who is not amenable to service of process in the United States. Foreign employers seeking to employ a P-1 alien may not directly petition for the alien but must use a United States agent. A United States agent petitioning on behalf of a foreign employer must be authorized to file the petition, and to accept service of process in the United States in proceedings under section 274A of the Act, on behalf of the foreign employer. A P-2 petition for an artist or entertainer in a reciprocal exchange program shall be filed by the United States labor organization which negotiated the reciprocal exchange agreement, the sponsoring organization, or a United States employer. A P-3 petition for an artist or entertainer in a culturally unique program shall be filed by the sponsoring organization or a United States employer. Essential support personnel may not be included on the petition filed for the principal alien(s). These aliens require a separate petition. The petitioner must file a P petition on the form prescribed by USCIS. The petition may not be filed more than one year before the actual need for the alien's
services. A P-1, P-2, or P-3 petition shall be adjudicated at the appropriate Service Center, even in emergency situations.
(ii)
Evidence required to accompany a petition for a P nonimmigrant.
Petitions for P nonimmigrant aliens shall be accompanied by the following:
(A) The evidence specified in the specific section of this part for the classification;
(B) Copies of any written contracts between the petitioner and the alien beneficiary or, if there is no written contract, a summary of the terms of the oral agreement under which the alien(s) will be employed;
(C) An explanation of the nature of the events or activities, the beginning and ending dates for the events or activities, and a copy of any itinerary for the events or activities; and
(D) A written consultation from a labor organization.
(iii)
Form of documentation.
The evidence submitted with an P petition should conform to the following:
(A) Affidavits, contracts, awards, and similar documentation must reflect the nature of the alien's achievement and be executed by an officer or responsible person employed by the institution, establishment, or organization where the work has performed.
(B) Affidavits written by present or former employers or recognized experts certifying to the recognition and extraordinary ability, or, in the case of a motion picture or television production, the extraordinary achievement of the alien, which shall specifically describe the alien's recognition and ability or achievement in factual terms. The affidavit must also set forth the expertise of the affiant and the manner in which the affiant acquired such information.
(C) A legible copy of a document in support of the petition may be submitted in lieu of the original. However, the original document shall be submitted if requested by the Director.
(iv)
Other filing situations
—(A)
Services in more than one location.
A petition which requires the alien to work in more than one location (e.g., a tour) must include an itinerary with the dates and locations of the performances.
(B)
Services for more than one employer.
If the beneficiary or beneficiaries will work for more than one employer within the same time period, each employer must file a separate petition unless an agent files the petition pursuant to paragraph (p)(2)(iv)(E) of this section.
(C)
Change of employer
—(
1
)
General.
If a P-1, P-2, or P-3 alien in the United States seeks to change employers or sponsors, the new employer or sponsor must file both a petition and a request to extend the alien's stay in the United States. The alien may not commence employment with the new employer or sponsor until the petition and request for extension have been approved.
(
2
)
Traded professional P-1 athletes.
In the case of a professional P-1 athlete who is traded from one organization to another organization, employment authorization for the player will automatically continue for a period of 30 days after acquisition by the new organization, within which time the new organization is expected to file a new application or petition for P-1 nonimmigrant classification. If a new application or petition is not filed within 30 days, employment authorization will cease. If a new application or petition is filed within 30 days, the professional athlete shall be deemed to be in valid P-1 status, and employment shall continue to be authorized, until the petition is adjudicated. If the new petition is denied, employment authorization will cease.
(D)
Amended petition.
The petitioner shall file an amended petition, with fee, with the Service Center where the original petition was filed to reflect any material changes in the terms and conditions of employment or the beneficiary's eligibility as specified in the original approved petition. A petitioner may add additional, similar or comparable performance, engagements, or competitions during the validity period of the petition without filing an amended petition.
(E)
Agents as petitioners.
A United States agent may file a petition in cases involving workers who are traditionally self-employed or workers who use agents to arrange short-term employment on their behalf with numerous employers, and in cases where a
foreign employer authorizes the agent to act on its behalf. A United States agent may be: the actual employer of the beneficiary; the representative of both the employer and the beneficiary; or, a person or entity authorized by the employer to act for, or in place of, the employer as its agent. A petition filed by an United States agent is subject to the following conditions:
(
1
) An agent performing the function of an employer must specify the wage offered and the other terms and conditions of employment by contractual agreement with the beneficiary or beneficiaries. The agent/employer must also provide an itinerary of definite employment and information on any other services planned for the period of time requested.
(
2
) A person or company in business as an agent may file the P petition involving multiple employers as the representative of both the employers and the beneficiary or beneficiaries if the supporting documentation includes a complete itinerary of services or engagements. The itinerary shall specify the dates of each service or engagement, the names and addresses of the actual employers, the names and addresses of the establishment, venues, or locations where the services will be performed. In questionable cases, a contract between the employer(s) and the beneficiary or beneficiaries may be required. The burden is on the agent to explain the terms and conditions of the employment and to provide any required documentation.
(
3
) A foreign employer who, through a United States agent, files a petition for a P nonimmigrant alien is responsible for complying with all of the employer sanctions provisions of section 274A of the Act and 8 CFR part 274a.
(F)
Multiple beneficiaries.
More than one beneficiary may be included in a P petition if they are members of a team or group, or if they will provide essential support to P-1, P-2, or P-3 beneficiaries performing in the same location and in the same occupation. Up to 25 named beneficiaries may be included per petition.
(G)
Named beneficiaries.
Petitions for P classification must include the names of beneficiaries and other required information at the time of filing.
(H)
Substitution of beneficiaries.
A petitioner may request substitution of beneficiaries in approved P-1, P-2, and P-3 petitions for groups. To request substitution, the petitioner shall submit a letter requesting such substitution, along with a copy of the petitioner's approval notice, to the consular office at which the alien will apply for a visa or the Port-of-Entry where the alien will apply for admission. Essential support personnel may not be substituted at consular offices or at Ports-of-entry. In order to add additional new essential support personnel, a new petition must be filed.
(3)
Definitions.
As used in this paragraph, the term:
Arts
includes fields of creative activity or endeavor such as, but not limited to, fine arts, visual arts, and performing arts.
Competition, event, or performance
means an activity such as an athletic competition, athletic season, tournament, tour, exhibit, project, entertainment event, or engagement. Such activity could include short vacations, promotional appearances for the petitioning employer relating to the competition, event, or performance, and stopovers which are incidental and/or related to the activity. An athletic competition or entertainment event could include an entire season of performances A group of related activities will also be considered an event. In the case of a P-2 petition, the event may be the duration of the reciprocal exchange agreement. In the case of a P-1 athlete, the event may be the duration of the alien's contract.
Contract
means the written agreement between the petitioner and the beneficiary(ies) that explains the terms and conditions of employment. The contract shall describe the services to be performed, and specify the wages, hours of work, working conditions, and any fringe benefits.
Culturally unique
means a style of artistic expression, methodology, or medium which is unique to a particular country, nation, society, class, ethnicity, religion, tribe, or other group of persons.
Essential support alien
means a highly skilled, essential person determined by the Director to be an integral part of the performance of a P-1, P-2, or P-3 alien because he or she performs support services which cannot be readily performed by a United States worker and which are essential to the successful performance of services by the P-1, P-2, alien. Such alien must have appropriate qualifications to perform the services, critical knowledge of the specific services to be performed, and experience in providing such support to the P-1, P-2, or P-3 alien.
Group
means two or more persons established as one entity or unit to perform or to provide a service.
Internationally recognized
means having a high level of achievement in a field evidenced by a degree of skill and recognition substantially above that ordinarily encountered, to the extent that such achievement is renowned, leading, or well-known in more than one country.
Member of a group
means a person who is actually performing the entertainment services.
Sponsor
means an established organization in the United States which will not directly employ a P-1, P-2, or P-3 alien but will assume responsibility for the accuracy of the terms and conditions specified in the petition.
Team
means two or more persons organized to perform together as a competitive unit in a competitive event.
(4)
Petition for an internationally recognized athlete or member of an internationally recognized entertainment group (P-1)
—(i)
Types of classification
—(A)
P-1 classification as an athlete in an individual capacity.
A P-1 classification may be granted to an alien who is an internationally recognized athlete based on his or her own reputation and achievements as an individual. The alien must be coming to the United States to perform services which require an internationally recognized athlete.
(B)
P-1 classification as a member of an entertainment group or an athletic team.
An entertainment group or athletic team consists of two or more persons who function as a unit. The entertainment group or athletic team as a unit must be internationally recognized as outstanding in the discipline and must be coming to perform services which require an internationally recognized entertainment group or athletic team. A person who is a member of an internationally recognized entertainment group or athletic team may be granted P-1 classification based on that relationship, but may not perform services separate and apart from the entertainment group or athletic team. An entertainment group must have been established for a minimum of 1 year, and 75 percent of the members of the group must have been performing entertainment services for the group for a minimum of 1 year.
(ii)
Criteria and documentary requirements for P-1 athletes
—(A)
General.
A P-1 athlete must have an internationally recognized reputation as an international athlete or he or she must be a member of a foreign team that is internationally recognized. The athlete or team must be coming to the United States to participate in an athletic competition which has a distinguished reputation and which requires participation of an athlete or athletic team that has an international reputation.
(B)
Evidentiary requirements for an internationally recognized athlete or athletic team.
A petition for an athletic team must be accompanied by evidence that the team as a unit has achieved international recognition in the sport. Each member of the team is accorded P-1 classification based on the international reputation of the team. A petition for an athlete who will compete individually or as a member of a U.S. team must be accompanied by evidence that the athlete has achieved international recognition in the sport based on his or her reputation. A petition for a P-1 athlete or athletic team shall include:
(
1
) A tendered contract with a major United States sports league or team, or a tendered contract in an individual sport commensurate with international recognition in that sport, if such contracts are normally executed in the sport, and
(
2
) Documentation of at least two of the following:
(
i
) Evidence of having participated to a significant extent in a prior season
with a major United States sports league;
(
ii
) Evidence of having participated in international competition with a national team;
(
iii
) Evidence of having participated to a significant extent in a prior season for a U.S. college or university in intercollegiate competition;
(
iv
) A written statement from an official of the governing body of the sport which details how the alien or team is internationally recognized;
(
v
) A written statement from a member of the sports media or a recognized expert in the sport which details how the alien or team is internationally recognized;
(
vi
) Evidence that the individual or team is ranked if the sport has international rankings; or
(
vii
) Evidence that the alien or team has received a significant honor or award in the sport.
(iii)
Criteria and documentary requirements for members of an internationally recognized entertainment group
—(A)
General.
A P-1 classification shall be accorded to an entertainment group to perform as a unit based on the international reputation of the group. Individual entertainers shall not be accorded P-1 classification to perform separate and apart from a group. Except as provided in paragraph (p)(4)(iii)(C)(
2
) of this section, it must be established that the group has been internationally recognized as outstanding in the discipline for a sustained and substantial period of time. Seventy-five percent of the members of the group must have had a sustained and substantial relationship with the group for at least 1 year and must provide functions integral to the group's performance.
(B)
Evidentiary criteria for members of internationally recognized entertainment groups.
A petition for P-1 classification for the members of an entertainment group shall be accompanied by:
(
1
) Evidence that the group has been established and performing regularly for a period of at least 1 year;
(
2
) A statement from the petitioner listing each member of the group and the exact dates for which each member has been employed on a regular basis by the group; and
(
3
) Evidence that the group has been internationally recognized in the discipline for a sustained and substantial period of time. This may be demonstrated by the submission of evidence of the group's nomination or receipt of significant international awards or prices for outstanding achievement in its field or by three of the following different types of documentation:
(
i
) Evidence that the group has performed, and will perform, as a starring or leading entertainment group in productions or events which have a distinguished reputation as evidenced by critical reviews, advertisements, publicity releases, publications, contracts, or endorsements;
(
ii
) Evidence that the group has achieved international recognition and acclaim for outstanding achievement in its field as evidenced by reviews in major newspapers, trade journals, magazines, or other published material;
(
iii
) Evidence that the group has performed, and will perform, services as a leading or starring group for organizations and establishments that have a distinguished reputation evidenced by articles in newspapers, trade journals, publications, or testimonials;
(
iv
) Evidence that the group has a record of major commercial or critically acclaimed successes, as evidenced by such indicators as ratings; standing in the field; box office receipts; record, cassette, or video sales; and other achievements in the field as reported in trade journals, major newspapers, or other publications;
(
v
) Evidence that the group has achieved significant recognition for achievements from organizations, critics, government agencies, or other recognized experts in the field. Such testimonials must be in a form that clearly indicates the author's authority, expertise, and knowledge of the alien's achievements; or
(
vi
) Evidence that the group has either commanded a high salary or will command a high salary or other substantial remuneration for services comparable to other similarly situated in the field as evidenced by contracts or other reliable evidence.
(C)
Special provisions for certain entertainment groups
—(
1
)
Alien circus personnel.
The 1-year group membership requirement and the international recognition requirement are not applicable to alien circus personnel who perform as part of a circus or circus group, or who constitute an integral and essential part of the performance of such circus or circus group, provided that the alien or aliens are coming to join a circus that has been recognized nationally as outstanding for a sustained and substantial period of time or as part of such a circus.
(
2
)
Certain nationally known entertainment groups.
The Director may waive the international recognition requirement in the case of an entertainment group which has been recognized nationally as being outstanding in its discipline for a sustained and substantial period of time in consideration of special circumstances. An example of a special circumstances would be when an entertainment group may find it difficult to demonstrate recognition in more than one country due to such factors as limited access to news media or consequences of geography.
(
3
)
Waiver of 1-year relationship in exigent circumstances.
The Director may waive the 1-year relationship requirement for an alien who, because of illness or unanticipated and exigent circumstances, replaces an essential member of a P-1 entertainment group or an alien who augments the group by performing a critical role. The Department of State is hereby delegated the authority to waive the 1-year relationship requirement in the case of consular substitutions involving P-1 entertainment groups.
(iv)
P-1 classification as an essential support alien
—(A)
General.
An essential support alien as defined in paragraph (p)(3) of this section may be granted P-1 classification based on a support relationship with an individual P-1 athlete, P-1 athletic team, or a P-1 entertainment group.
(B)
Evidentiary criteria for a P-1 essential support petition.
A petition for P-1 essential support personnel must be accompanied by:
(
1
) A consultation from a labor organization with expertise in the area of the alien's skill;
(
2
) A statement describing the alien(s) prior essentiality, critical skills, and experience with the principal alien(s); and
(
3
) A copy of the written contract or a summary of the terms of the oral agreement between the alien(s) and the employer.
(5)
Petition for an artist or entertainer under a reciprocal exchange program (P-2)
—(i)
General.
(A) A P-2 classification shall be accorded to artists or entertainers, individually or as a group, who will be performing under a reciprocal exchange program which is between an organization or organizations in the United States, which may include a management organization, and an organization or organizations in one or more foreign states and which provides for the temporary exchange of artists and entertainers, or groups of artists and entertainers.
(B) The exchange of artists or entertainers shall be similar in terms of caliber of artists or entertainers, terms and conditions of employment, such as length of employment, and numbers of artists or entertainers involved in the exchange. However, this requirement does not preclude an individual for group exchange.
(C) An alien who is an essential support person as defined in paragraph (p)(3) of this section may be accorded P-2 classification based on a support relationship to a P-2 artist or entertainer under a reciprocal exchange program.
(ii)
Evidentiary requirements for petition involving a reciprocal exchange program.
A petition for P-2 classification shall be accompanied by:
(A) A copy of the formal reciprocal exchange agreement between the U.S. organization or organizations which sponsor the aliens and an organization or organizations in a foreign country which will receive the U.S. artist or entertainers;
(B) A statement from the sponsoring organization describing the reciprocal exchange of U.S. artists or entertainers as it relates to the specific petition for which P-2 classification is being sought;
(C) Evidence that an appropriate labor organization in the United States was involved in negotiating, or has
concurred with, the reciprocal exchange of U.S. and foreign artists or entertainers; and
(D) Evidence that the aliens for whom P-2 classification is being sought and the U.S. artists or entertainers subject to the reciprocal exchange agreement are artists or entertainers with comparable skills, and that the terms and conditions of employment are similar.
(iii)
P-2 classification as an essential support alien
—(A)
General.
An essential support alien as defined in paragraph (p)(3) of this section may be granted P-2 classification based on a support relationship with a P-2 entertainer or P-2 entertainment group.
(B)
Evidentiary criteria for a P-2 essential support petition.
A petition for P-2 essential support personnel must be accompanied by:
(
1
) A consultation from a labor organization with expertise in the area of the alien's skill;
(
2
) A statement describing the alien(s) prior essentiality, critical skills, and experience with the principal alien(s); and
(
3
) A copy of the written contract or a summary of the terms of the oral agreement between the alien(s) and the employer.
(6)
Petition for an artist or entertainer under a culturally unique program
—(i)
General.
(A) A P-3 classification may be accorded to artists or entertainers, individually or as a group, coming to the United States for the purpose of developing, interpreting, representing, coaching, or teaching a unique or traditional ethnic, folk, cultural, musical, theatrical, or artistic performance or presentation.
(B) The artist or entertainer must be coming to the United States to participate in a cultural event or events which will further the understanding or development of his or her art form. The program may be of a commercial or noncommercial nature.
(ii)
Evidentiary criteria for a petition involving a culturally unique program.
A petition for P-3 classification shall be accompanied by:
(A) Affidavits, testimonials, or letters from recognized experts attesting to the authenticity of the alien's or the group's skills in performing, presenting, coaching, or teaching the unique or traditional art form and giving the credentials of the expert, including the basis of his or her knowledge of the alien's or group's skill, or
(B) Documentation that the performance of the alien or group is culturally unique, as evidence by reviews in newspapers, journals, or other published materials; and
(C) Evidence that all of the performances or presentations will be culturally unique events.
(iii)
P-3 classification as an essential support alien
—(A)
General.
An essential support alien as defined in paragraph (p)(3) of this section may be granted P-3 classification based on a support relationship with a P-3 entertainer or P-3 entertainment group.
(B)
Evidentiary criteria for a P-3 essential support petition.
A petition for P-3 essential support personnel must be accompanied by:
(
1
) A consultation from a labor organization with expertise in the area of the alien's skill;
(
2
) A statement describing the alien(s) prior essentiality, critical skills and experience with the principal alien(s); and
(
3
) A copy of the written contract or a summary of the terms of the oral agreement between the alien(s) and the employer.
(7)
Consultation
—(i)
General.
(A) Consultation with an appropriate labor organization regarding the nature of the work to be done and the alien's qualifications is mandatory before a petition for P-1, P-2, or P-3 classification can be approved.
(B) Except as provided in paragraph (p)(7)(i)(E) of this section, evidence of consultation shall be a written advisory opinion from an appropriate labor organization.
(C) Except as provided in paragraph (p)(7)(i)(E) of this section, the petitioner shall obtain a written advisory opinion from an appropriate labor organization. The advisory opinion shall be submitted along with the petition when the petition is filed. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, the advisory opinion must set forth a specific statement of facts which support the conclusion reached in the opinion. Advisory opinions must
be submitted in writing and signed by an authorized official of the organization.
(D) Except as provided in paragraph (p)(7)(i) (E) and (F) of this section, written evidence of consultation shall be included in the record of every approved petition. Consultations are advisory and are not binding on the Service.
(E) In a case where the Service has determined that a petition merits expeditious handling, the Service shall contact the labor organization and request an advisory opinion if one is not submitted by the petitioner. The labor organization shall have 24 hours to respond to the Service's request. The Service shall adjudicate the petition after receipt of the response from the labor organization. The labor organization shall then furnish the Service with a written advisory opinion within 5 working days of the request. If the labor organization fails to respond within 24 hours, the Service shall render a decision on the petition without the advisory opinion.
(F) In those cases where it is established by the petitioner that an appropriate labor organization does not exist, the Service shall render a decision on the evidence of record.
(ii)
Consultation requirements for P-1 athletes and entertainment groups.
Consultation with a labor organization that has expertise in the area of the alien's sport or entertainment field is required in the case of a P-1 petition. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, the advisory opinion must set forth a specific statement of facts which support the conclusion reached in the opinion. If the advisory opinion provided by the labor organization is favorable to the petitioner it should evaluate and/or describe the alien's or group's ability and achievements in the field of endeavor, comment on whether the alien or group is internationally recognized for achievements, and state whether the services the alien or group is coming to perform are appropriate for an internationally recognized athlete or entertainment group. In lieu of the above, a labor organization may submit a letter of no objection if it has no objection to the approval of the petition.
(iii)
Consultation requirements for P-1 circus personnel.
The advisory opinion provided by the labor organization should comment on whether the circus which will employ the alien has national recognition as well as any other aspect of the beneficiary's or beneficiaries' qualifications which the labor organization deems appropriate. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, it must set forth a specific statement of facts which support the conclusion reached in the opinion. In lieu of the above, a labor organization may submit a letter of no objection if it has no objection to the approval of the petition.
(iv)
Consultation requirements for P-2 alien in a reciprocal exchange program.
In P-2 petitions where an artist or entertainer is coming to the United States under a reciprocal exchange program, consultation with the appropriate labor organization is required to verify the existence of a viable exchange program. The advisory opinion from the labor organization shall comment on the bona fides of the reciprocal exchange program and specify whether the exchange meets the requirements of paragraph (p)(5) of this section. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, it must also set forth a specific statement of facts which support the conclusion reached in the opinion.
(v)
Consultation requirements for P-3 in a culturally unique program.
Consultation with an appropriate labor organization is required for P-3 petitions involving aliens in culturally unique programs. If the advisory opinion is favorable to the petitioner, it should evaluate the cultural uniqueness of the alien's skills, state whether the events are cultural in nature, and state whether the event or activity is appropriate for P-3 classification. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, it must also set forth a specific statement of facts which support the conclusion reached in the opinion. In lieu of the above, a labor organization may submit a letter of no objection if it has no objection to the approval of the petition.
(vi)
Consultation requirements for essential support aliens.
Written consultation on petitions for P-1, P-2, or P-3 essential support aliens must be made with a labor organization with expertise in the skill area involved. If the advisory opinion provided by the labor organization is favorable to the petitioner, it must evaluate the alien's essentiality to and working relationship with the artist or entertainer, and state whether United States workers are available who can perform the support services. If the advisory opinion is not favorable to the petitioner, it must also set forth a specific statement of facts which support the conclusion reached in the opinion. A labor organization may submit a letter of no objection if it has no objection to the approval of the petition.
(vii)
Labor organizations agreeing to provide consultations.
The Service shall list in its Operations Instructions for P classification those organizations which have agreed to provide advisory opinions to the Service and/or petitioners. The list will not be an exclusive or exhaustive list. The Service and petitioners may use other sources, such as publications, to identify appropriate labor organizations. The Service will also list in its Operations Instructions those occupations or fields of endeavor where it has been determined by the Service that no appropriate labor organization exists.
(8)
Approval and validity of petition
—(i)
Approval.
The Director shall consider all the evidence submitted and such other evidence as he or she may independently require to assist in his or her adjudication. The Director shall notify the petitioner of the approval of the petition on Form I-797, Notice of Action. The approval notice shall include the alien beneficiary's name and classification and the petition's period of validity.
(ii)
Recording the validity of petitions.
Procedures for recording the validity period of petitions are:
(A) If a new P petition is approved before the date the petitioner indicates the services will begin, the approved petition and approval notice shall show the actual dates requested by the petitioner as the validity period, not to exceed the limit specified in paragraph (p)(8)(iii) of this section or other Service policy.
(B) If a new P petition is approved after the date the petitioner indicates the services will begin, the approved petition and approval notice shall generally show a validity period commencing with the date of approval and ending with the date requested by the petitioner, not to exceed the limit specified in paragraph (p)(8)(iii) of this section or other Service policy.
(C) If the period of services requested by the petitioner exceeds the limit specified in paragraph (p)(8)(iii) of this section, the petition shall be approved only up to the limit specified in that paragraph.
(iii)
Validity.
The approval period of a P petition shall conform to the limits prescribed as follows:
(A)
P-1 petition for athletes.
An approved petition for an individual athlete classified under section 101(a)(15)(P)(i) of the Act shall be valid for a period up to 5 years. An approved petition for an athletic team classified under section 101(a)(15)(P)(i) of the Act shall be valid for a period of time determined by the Director to complete the competition or event for which the alien team is being admitted, not to exceed 1 year.
(B)
P-1 petition for an entertainment group.
An approved petition for an entertainment group classified under section 101(a)(15)(P)(i) of the Act shall be valid for a period of time determined by the Director to be necessary to complete the performance or event for which the group is being admitted, not to exceed 1 year.
(C)
P-2 and P-3 petitions for artists or entertainers.
An approved petition for an artist or entertainer under section 101(a)(15)(P)(ii) or (iii) of the Act shall be valid for a period of time determined by the Director to be necessary to complete the event, activity, or performance for which the P-2 or P-3 alien is admitted, not to exceed 1 year.
(D)
Spouse and dependents.
The spouse and unmarried minor children of a P-1, P-2, or P-3 alien beneficiary are entitled to P-4 nonimmigrant classification, subject to the same period of admission and limitations as the alien beneficiary, if they are accompanying
or following to join the alien beneficiary in the United States. Neither the spouse nor a child of the alien beneficiary may accept employment unless he or she has been granted employment authorization.
(E)
Essential support aliens.
Petitions for essential support personnel to P-1, P-2, and P-3 aliens shall be valid for a period of time determined by the Director to be necessary to complete the event, activity, or performance for which the P-1, P-2, or P-3 alien is admitted, not to exceed 1 year.
(9) The petitioner shall be notified of the decision, the reasons for the denial, and the right to appeal the denial under 8 CFR part 103. There is no appeal from a decision to deny an extension of stay to the alien or a change of nonimmigrant status.
(10)
Revocation of approval of petition
—(i)
General.
(A) The petitioner shall immediately notify the Service of any changes in the terms and conditions of employment of a beneficiary which may affect eligibility under section 101(a)(15)(P) of the Act and paragraph (p) of this section. An amended petition should be filed when the petitioner continues to employ the beneficiary. If the petitioner no longer employs the beneficiary, the petitioner shall send a letter explaining the change(s) to the Director who approved the petition.
(B) The Director may revoke a petition at any time, even after the validity of the petition has expired.
(ii)
Automatic revocation.
The approval of an unexpired petition is automatically revoked if the petitioner, or the employer in a petition filed by an agent, goes out of business, files a written withdrawal of the petition, or notifies the Service that the beneficiary is no longer employed by the petitioner.
(iii)
Revocation on notice
—(A)
Grounds for revocation.
The Director shall send to the petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the petition in relevant part if he or she finds that:
(
1
) The beneficiary is no longer employed by the petitioner in the capacity specified in the petition;
(
2
) The statement of facts contained in the petition were not true and correct;
(
3
) The petitioner violated the terms or conditions of the approved petition;
(
4
) The petitioner violated requirements of section 101(a)(15)(P) of the Act or paragraph (p) of this section; or
(
5
) The approval of the petition violated paragraph (p) of this section or involved gross error.
(B)
Notice and decision.
The notice of intent to revoke shall contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation and the time period allowed for the petitioner's rebuttal. The petitioner may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of the date of the notice. The Director shall consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to revoke the petition.
(11)
Appeal of a denial or a revocation of a petition
—(i)
Denial.
A denied petition may be appealed under 8 CFR part 103.
(ii)
Revocation.
A petition that has been revoked on notice may be appealed under 8 CFR part 103. Automatic revocations may not be appealed.
(12)
Admission.
A beneficiary may be admitted to the United States for the validity period of the petition, plus a period of up to 10 days before the validity period begins and 10 days after the validity period ends. The beneficiary may not work except during the validity period of the petition.
(13)
Extension of visa petition validity.
The petitioner shall file a request to extend the validity of the original petition under section 101(a)(15)(P) of the Act on the form prescribed by USCIS in order to continue or complete the same activity or event specified in the original petition. Supporting documents are not required unless requested by the Director. A petition extension may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
(14)
Extension of stay
—(i)
Extension procedure.
The petitioner shall request extension of the alien's stay to continue or complete the same event or activity by filing the form prescribed by USCIS, accompanied by a statement explaining the reasons for the extension. The petitioner must also request a petition extension. The extension dates shall be the same for the petition and the beneficiary's stay. The beneficiary must be physically present in
the United States at the time the extension of stay is filed. Even though the requests to extend the petition and the alien's stay are combined on the petition, the Director shall make a separate determination on each. If the alien leaves the United States for business or personal reasons while the extension requests are pending, the petitioner may request the Director to cable notification of approval of the petition extension to the consular office abroad where the alien will apply for a visa.
(ii)
Extension periods
—(A)
P-1 individual athlete.
An extension of stay for a P-1 individual athlete and his or her essential support personnel may be authorized for a period up to 5 years for a total period of stay not to exceed 10 years.
(B)
Other P-1, P-2, and P-3 aliens.
An extension of stay may be authorized in increments of 1 year for P-1 athletic teams, entertainment groups, aliens in reciprocal exchange programs, aliens in culturally unique programs, and their essential support personnel to continue or complete the same event or activity for which they were admitted.
(15)
Effect of approval of a permanent labor certification or filing of a preference petition on P classification.
The approval of a permanent labor certification or the filing of a preference petition for an alien shall not be a basis for denying a P petition, a request to extend such a petition, or the alien's admission, change of status, or extension of stay. The alien may legitimately come to the United States for a temporary period as a P nonimmigrant and depart voluntarily at the end of his or her authorized stay and, at the same time, lawfully seek to become a permanent resident of the United States. This provision does not include essential support personnel.
(16)
Effect of a strike.
(i) If the Secretary of Labor certifies to the Commissioner that a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers is in progress in the occupation at the place where the beneficiary is to be employed, and that the employment of the beneficiary would adversely affect the wages and working conditions of U.S. citizens and lawful resident workers:
(A) A petition to classify an alien as a nonimmigrant as defined in section 101(a)(15)(P) of the Act shall be denied; or
(B) If a petition has been approved, but the alien has not yet entered the United States, or has entered the United States but has not commenced employment, the approval of the petition is automatically suspended, and the application for admission of the basis of the petition shall be denied.
(ii) If there is a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers in progress, but such strike or other labor dispute is not certified under paragraph (p)(16)(i) of this section, the Commissioner shall not deny a petition or suspend an approved petition.
(iii) If the alien has already commenced employment in the United States under an approved petition and is participating in a strike or labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers, whether or not such strike or other labor dispute has been certified by the Secretary of Labor, the alien shall not be deemed to be failing to maintain his or her status solely on account of past, present, or future participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers but is subject to the following terms and conditions:
(A) The alien shall remain subject to all applicable provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act and regulations promulgated thereunder in the same manner as all other P nonimmigrant aliens;
(B) The status and authorized period of stay of such an alien is not modified or extended in any way by virtue of his or her participation in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppage of workers; and
(C) Although participation by a P nonimmigrant alien in a strike or other labor dispute involving a work stoppages of workers will not constitute a ground for deportation, an alien who violates his or her status or who remains in the United States after his or her authorized period of stay has expired, will be subject to deportation.
(17)
Use of approval of notice, Form I-797.
The Service has notify the petitioner on Form I-797 whenever a visa
petition or an extension of a visa petition is approved under the P classification. The beneficiary of a P petition who does not require a nonimmigrant visa may present a copy of the approved notice at a Port-of-Entry to facilitate entry into the United States. A beneficiary who is required to present a visa for admission, and whose visa expired before the date of his or her intended return, may use Form I-797 to apply for a new or revalidated visa during the validity period of the petition. The copy of Form I-797 shall be retained by the beneficiary and present during the validity of the petition when reentering the United States to resume the same employment with the same petitioner.
(18)
Return transportation requirement.
In the case of an alien who enters the United States under section 101(a)(15)(P) of the Act and whose employment terminates for reasons other than voluntary resignation, the employer whose offer of employment formed the basis of such nonimmigrant status and the petitioner are jointly and severally liable for the reasonable cost of return transportation of the alien abroad. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “abroad” means the alien's last place of residence prior to his or her entry into the United States.
(q)
Cultural visitors
—(1)(i)
International cultural exchange visitors program.
Paragraphs (q)(2) through (q)(11) of this section provide the rules governing nonimmigrant aliens who are visiting the United States temporarily in an international cultural exchange visitors program (Q-1).
(ii)
Irish peace process cultural and training program.
Paragraph (q)(15) of this section provides the rules governing nonimmigrant aliens who are visiting the United States temporarily under the Irish peace process cultural and training program (Q-2) and their dependents (Q-3).
(iii)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Country of nationality
means the country of which the participant was a national at the time of the petition seeking international cultural exchange visitor status for him or her.
Doing business
means the regular, systematic, and continuous provision of goods and/or services (including lectures, seminars and other types of cultural programs) by a qualified employer which has employees, and does not include the mere presence of an agent or office of the qualifying employer.
Duration of program
means the time in which a qualified employer is conducting an approved international cultural exchange program in the manner as established by the employer's petition for program approval, provided that the period of time does not exceed 15 months.
International cultural exchange visitor
means an alien who has a residence in a foreign country which he or she has no intention of abandoning, and who is coming temporarily to the United States to take part in an international cultural exchange program approved by the Attorney General.
Petitioner
means the employer or its designated agent who has been employed by the qualified employer on a permanent basis in an executive or managerial capacity. The designated agent must be a United States citizen, an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, or an alien provided temporary residence status under sections 210 or 245A of the Act.
Qualified employer
means a United States or foreign firm, corporation, non-profit organization, or other legal entity (including its U.S. branches, subsidiaries, affiliates, and franchises) which administers an international cultural exchange program designated by the Attorney General in accordance with the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(Q)(i) of the Act.
(2)
Admission of international cultural exchange visitor
—(i)
General.
A nonimmigrant alien may be authorized to enter the United States as a participant in an international cultural exchange program approved by the Attorney General for the purpose of providing practical training, employment, and the sharing of the history, culture, and traditions of the country of the alien's nationality. The period of admission is the duration of the approved international cultural exchange program or fifteen (15) months, whichever
is shorter. A nonimmigrant alien admitted under this provision is classifiable as an international cultural exchange visitor in Q-1 status.
(ii)
Limitation on admission.
Any alien who has been admitted into the United States as an international cultural exchange visitor under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(i) of the Act shall not be readmitted in Q-1 status unless the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States for the immediate prior year. Brief trips to the United States for pleasure or business during the immediate prior year do not break the continuity of the one-year foreign residency.
(3)
International cultural exchange program
—(i)
General.
A United States employer shall petition the Attorney General on the form prescribed by USCIS, for approval of an international cultural exchange program which is designed to provide an opportunity for the American public to learn about foreign cultures. The United States employer must simultaneously petition on the same application or petition for the authorization for one or more individually identified nonimmigrant aliens to be admitted in Q-1 status. These aliens are to be admitted to engage in employment or training of which the essential element is the sharing with the American public, or a segment of the public sharing a common cultural interest, of the culture of the alien's country of nationality. The international cultural exchange visitor's eligibility for admission will be considered only if the international cultural exchange program is approved.
(ii)
Program validity.
Each petition for an international cultural exchange program will be approved for the duration of the program, which may not exceed 15 months, plus 30 days to allow time for the participants to make travel arrangements. Subsequent to the approval of the initial petition, a new petition must be filed each time the qualified employer wishes to bring in additional cultural visitors. A qualified employer may replace or substitute a participant named on a previously approved petition for the remainder of the program in accordance with paragraph (q)(6) of this section. The replacement or substituting alien may be admitted in Q-1 status until the expiration date of the approved petition.
(iii)
Requirements for program approval.
An international cultural exchange program must meet all of the following requirements:
(A)
Accessibility to the public.
The international cultural exchange program must take place in a school, museum, business or other establishment where the American public, or a segment of the public sharing a common cultural interest, is exposed to aspects of a foreign culture as part of a structured program. Activities that take place in a private home or an isolated business setting to which the American public, or a segment of the public sharing a common cultural interest, does not have direct access do not qualify.
(B)
Cultural component.
The international cultural exchange program must have a cultural component which is an essential and integral part of the international cultural exchange visitor's employment or training. The cultural component must be designed, on the whole, to exhibit or explain the attitude, customs, history, heritage, philosophy, or traditions of the international cultural exchange visitor's country of nationality. A cultural component may include structured instructional activities such as seminars, courses, lecture series, or language camps.
(C)
Work component.
The international cultural exchange visitor's employment or training in the United States may not be independent of the cultural component of the international cultural exchange program. The work component must serve as the vehicle to achieve the objectives of the cultural component. The sharing of the culture of the international cultural exchange visitor's country of nationality must result from his or her employment or training with the qualified employer in the United States.
(iv)
Requirements for international cultural exchange visitors.
To be eligible for international cultural exchange visitor status, an alien must be a bona fide nonimmigrant who:
(A) Is at least 18 years of age at the time the petition is filed;
(B) Is qualified to perform the service or labor or receive the type of training stated in the petition;
(C) Has the ability to communicate effectively about the cultural attributes of his or her country of nationality to the American public; and
(D) Has resided and been physically present outside of the United States for the immediate prior year, if he or she was previously admitted as an international cultural exchange visitor.
(4)
Supporting documentation
—(i)
Documentation by the employer.
To establish eligibility as a qualified employer, the petitioner must submit with the completed application or petition appropriate evidence that the employer:
(A) Maintains an established international cultural exchange program in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (q)(3) of this section;
(B) Has designated a qualified employee as a representative who will be responsible for administering the international cultural exchange program and who will serve as liaison with the Immigration and Naturalization Service;
(C) Is actively doing business in the United States;
(D) Will offer the alien(s) wages and working conditions comparable to those accorded local domestic workers similarly employed; and
(E) Has the financial ability to remunerate the participant(s).
(ii)
Certification by petitioner.
(A) The petitioner must give the date of birth, country of nationality, level of education, position title, and a brief job description for each international cultural exchange visitor included in the petition. The petitioner must verify and certify that the prospective participants are qualified to perform the service or labor, or receive the type of training, described in the petition.
(B) The petitioner must report the international cultural exchange visitors' wages and certify that such cultural exchange visitors are offered wages and working conditions comparable to those accorded to local domestic workers similarly employed.
(iii) Supporting documentation as prescribed in paragraphs (q)(4)(i) and (q)(4)(ii) of this section must accompany a petition filed on the form prescribed by USCIS in all cases except where the employer files multiple petitions in the same calendar year. When petitioning to repeat a previously approved international cultural exchange program, a copy of the initial program approval notice may be submitted in lieu of the documentation required under paragraph (q)(4)(i) of this section. The Service will request additional documentation only when clarification is needed.
(5)
Filing of petitions for international cultural exchange visitor program
—(i)
General.
A United States employer seeking to bring in international cultural exchange visitors must file a petition on the form prescribed by USCIS, with the applicable fee, along with appropriate documentation. A new petition on the form prescribed by USCIS, with the applicable fee, must be filed with the appropriate service center each time a qualified employer wants to bring in additional international cultural exchange visitors. Each person named on an approved petition will be admitted only for the duration of the approved program. Replacement or substitution may be made for any person named on an approved petition as provided in paragraph (q)(6) of this section, but only for the remainder of the approved program.
(ii)
Petition for multiple participants.
The petitioner may include up to 25 named participants on a petition. The petitioner shall include the name, date of birth, nationality, and other identifying information required on the petition for each participant. The petitioner must also indicate the United States consulate at which each participant will apply for a Q-1 visa. For participants who are visa-exempt under 8 CFR 212.1(a), the petitioner must indicate the port of entry at which each participant will apply for admission to the United States.
(iii)
Service, labor, or training in more than one location.
A petition which requires the international cultural exchange visitor to engage in employment or training (with the same employer) in more than one location must include an itinerary with the dates and locations of the services, labor, or training.
(iv)
Services, labor, or training for more than one employer.
If the international cultural exchange visitor will perform services or labor for, or receive training from, more than one employer, each employer must file a separate petition. The international cultural exchange visitor may work part-time for multiple employers provided that each employer has an approved petition for the alien.
(v)
Change of employers.
If an international cultural exchange visitor is in the United States under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(i) of the Act and decides to change employers, the new employer must file a petition. However, the total period of time the international cultural exchange visitor may stay in the United States remains limited to fifteen (15) months.
(6)
Substitution or replacements of participants in an international cultural exchange visitor program.
The petitioner may substitute for or replace a person named on a previously approved petition for the remainder of the program without filing a new application or petition. The substituting international cultural exchange visitor must meet the qualification requirements prescribed in paragraph (q)(3)(iv) of this section. To request substitution or replacement, the petitioner shall, by letter, notify the consular office at which the alien will apply for a visa or, in the case of visa-exempt aliens, the Service office at the port of entry where the alien will apply for admission. A copy of the petition's approval notice must be included with the letter. The petitioner must state the date of birth, country of nationality, level of education, and position title of each prospective international cultural exchange visitor and must certify that each is qualified to perform the service or labor or receive the type of training described in the approved petition. The petitioner must also indicate each international cultural exchange visitor's wages and certify that the international cultural exchange visitor is offered wages and working conditions comparable to those accorded to local domestic workers in accordance with paragraph (q)(11)(ii) of this section.
(7)
Approval of petition for international cultural exchange visitor program.
(i) The director shall consider all the evidence submitted and request other evidence as he or she may deem necessary.
(ii) The director shall notify the petitioner and the appropriate United States consulate(s) of the approval of a petition. For participants who are visa-exempt under 8 CFR 212.1(a), the director shall give notice of the approval to the director of the port of entry at which each such participant will apply for admission to the United States. The notice of approval shall include the name of the international cultural exchange visitors, their classification, and the petition's period of validity.
(iii) An approved petition for an alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(i) of the Act is valid for the length of the approved program or fifteen (15) months, whichever is shorter.
(iv) A petition shall not be approved for an alien who has an aggregate of fifteen (15) months in the United States under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(i) of the Act, unless the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States for the immediate prior year.
(8)
Denial of the petition
—(i)
Notice of denial.
The petitioner shall be notified of the denial of a petition, the reasons for the denial, and the right to appeal the denial under part 103 of this chapter.
(ii)
Multiple participants.
A petition for multiple international cultural exchange visitors may be denied in whole or in part.
(9)
Revocation of approval of petition
—(i)
General.
The petitioner shall immediately notify the appropriate Service center of any changes in the employment of a participant which would affect eligibility under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(i) of the Act.
(ii)
Automatic revocation.
The approval of any petition is automatically revoked if the qualifying employer goes out of business, files a written withdrawal of the petition, or terminates the approved international cultural exchange program prior to its expiration date. No further action or notice by the Service is necessary in the case of automatic revocation. In any other case, the Service shall follow the revocation procedures in paragraphs (q)(9) (iii) through (v) of this section.
(iii)
Revocation on notice.
The director shall send the petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the petition in whole or in part if he or she finds that:
(A) The international cultural exchange visitor is no longer employed by the petitioner in the capacity specified in the petition, or if the international cultural exchange visitor is no longer receiving training as specified in the petition;
(B) The statement of facts contained in the petition was not true and correct;
(C) The petitioner violated the terms and conditions of the approved petition; or
(D) The Service approved the petition in error.
(iv)
Notice and decision.
The notice of intent to revoke shall contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation and the period of time allowed for the petitioner's rebuttal. The petitioner may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The director shall consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to revoke the petition in whole or in part. If the petition is revoked in part, the remainder of the petition shall remain approved and a revised approval notice shall be sent to the petitioner with the revocation notice.
(v)
Appeal of a revocation of a petition.
Revocation with notice of a petition in whole or in part may be appealed to the Associate Commissioner for Examinations under part 103 of this chapter. Automatic revocation may not be appealed.
(10)
Extension of stay.
An alien's total period of stay in the United States under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(i) of the Act cannot exceed fifteen (15) months. The authorized stay of an international cultural exchange visitor may be extended within the 15-month limit if he or she is the beneficiary of a new petition filed in accordance with paragraph (q)(3) of this section. The new petition, if filed by the same employer, should include a copy of the previous petition's approval notice and a letter from the petitioner indicating any terms and conditions of the previous petition that have changed.
(11)
Employment provisions
—(i)
General.
An alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(i) of the Act may be employed only by the qualified employer through which the alien attained Q-1 nonimmigrant status. An alien in this class is not required to apply for an employment authorization document. Employment outside the specific program violates the terms of the alien's Q-1 nonimmigrant status within the meaning of section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(ii)
Wages and working conditions.
The wages and working conditions of an international cultural exchange visitor must be comparable to those accorded to domestic workers similarly employed in the geographical area of the alien's employment. The employer must certify on the petition that such conditions are met as in accordance with paragraph (q)(4)(iii)(B) of this section.
(12)-(14) [Reserved]
(15)
Irish peace process cultural and training program visitors (Q-2) and their dependents (Q-3)
—(i)
General.
An Irish Peace Process Cultural and Training Program (IPPCTP) visitor is a nonimmigrant alien coming to the United States temporarily to gain or upgrade work skills through training and temporary employment and to experience living in a diverse and peaceful environment.
(ii)
What are the requirements for participation?
(A) The principal alien must have been physically resident in either Northern Ireland or the counties of Louth, Monaghan, Cavan, Leitrim, Sligo, and Donegal in the Republic of Ireland, for at least 3 months immediately preceding application to the program and must show that he or she has no intention of abandoning this residence.
(B) The principal alien must be between the ages of 18 and 35.
(C) The principal alien must:
(
1
) Be unemployed for at least 3 months, or have completed or currently be enrolled in a training/employment program sponsored by the Training and Employment Agency of Northern Ireland (T
EA) or by the Training and Employment Authority of Ireland (FAS), or by other such publicly funded programs, or have been
made redundant from employment (
i.e.,
lost their job), or have received a notice of redundancy (termination of employment); or
(
2
) Be a currently employed person whose employer has nominated him/her to participate in this program for additional training or job experience that is to benefit both the participant and his/her employer upon returning home.
(D) The principal alien must intend to come to the United States temporarily, for a period not to exceed 36 months, in order to obtain training, employment, and the experience of coexistence and conflict resolution in a diverse society.
(iii)
Are there any limitations on admissions?
(A) No more than 4,000 participants, including spouses and any minor children of principal aliens, may be admitted annually for 3 consecutive program years, beginning with FY 2000 (October 1, 1999, through September 30, 2000).
(B) For each alien admitted under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(ii) of the Act, the number of aliens admitted under section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of the Act is reduced by one for that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal year.
(C) This program expires on October 1, 2005.
(iv)
What are the requirements for initial admission to the United States?
(A) Principal aliens, their spouses, and minor children of principal aliens must present valid passports and either a Q-2 or Q-3 visa at the time of inspection.
(B) Initial admission for those principal and dependent aliens in this program who received their visas at either the U.S. Embassy in Dublin or the U.S. Consulate in Belfast must take place at the Service's Pre-Flight Inspection facilities at either the Shannon or Dublin airports in the Republic of Ireland.
(C) The principal alien will be required to present a Certification Letter issued by the Department of State's (DOS') Program Administrator documenting him or her as an individual selected for participation in the IPPCTP. Eligible dependents may be requested to present written documentation certifying their relationship to the principal.
(v)
May the principal alien and dependents make brief visits outside the United States?
(A) The principal alien, spouse, and any minor children of the principal alien may make brief departures, for periods not to exceed 3 consecutive months, and may be readmitted without having to obtain a new visa. However, such periods of time spent outside the United States will not be added to the end of stay, which is not to exceed a total of 3 years from the initial date of entry of the principal alien.
(B) Those participants or dependents who remain outside the United States in excess of 3 consecutive months will not be readmitted by the Service on their initial Q-2 or Q-3 visa. Instead, any such individual and eligible dependents wishing to rejoin the program will be required to reapply to the program and be in receipt of a new Q-2 or Q-3 visa and a Certification Letter issued by the DOS' Program Administrator, prior to any subsequent admission to the United States.
(vi)
How long may a Q-2 or Q-3 visa holder remain in the United States under this program?
(A) The principal alien and any accompanying, or following-to-join, spouse or minor children of the principal alien are admitted for the duration of the principal alien's planned cultural and training program or 36 months, whichever is shorter.
(B) Those participants and eligible dependents admitted for specific periods less than 36 months may extend their period of stay through the Service so that their total period of stay is 36 months, provided the extension of stay is related to employment or training certified by the DOS' Program Administrator.
(vii)
How is employment authorized under this program?
(A) Following endorsement of his/her Form I-94, Arrival-Departure Record, by a Service officer, any principal alien admitted under section 101(a)(15)(Q)(ii) of the Act is permitted to work for an employer or employers listed on the Certification Letter issued by the DOS' Program Administrator.
(B) The accompanying spouse and minor children of the principal alien may not accept employment, unless the spouse has also been designated as a principal alien (Q-2) in this program
and has been issued a Certification Letter by the DOS' Program Administrator.
(viii)
May the principal alien change employers?
Principal aliens wishing to change employers must request such a change through the DOS' Program Administrator to the Service. Following review and consideration of the request by the Service, the Service will inform the participant of the decision. The Service will grant such approval of employers only if the new employer has been approved by DOS in accordance with its regulations and such approval is communicated to the Service through the DOS' Program Administrator. If approved, the participant's Form I-94 will be annotated to show the new employer. If denied, there is no appeal under this section.
(ix)
May the principal alien hold other jobs during his/her U.S. visit?
No; any principal alien classified as an Irish peace process cultural and training program visitor may only engage in employment that has been certified by the DOS' Program Administrator and approved by the DOS or the Service as endorsed on the Form I-94. An alien who engages in unauthorized employment violates the terms of the Q-2 visa and will be considered to have violated section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(x)
What happens if a principal alien loses his/her job?
A principal alien, who loses his or her job, will have 30 days from his/her last date of employment to locate appropriate employment or training, to have the job offer certified by the DOS' Program Administrator in accordance with the DOS' regulations and to have it approved by the Service. If appropriate employment or training cannot be found within this 30-day-period, the principal alien and any accompany family members will be required to depart the United States.
(r)
Religious workers.
This paragraph governs classification of an alien as a nonimmigrant religious worker (R-1).
(1) To be approved for temporary admission to the United States, or extension and maintenance of status, for the purpose of conducting the activities of a religious worker for a period not to exceed five years, an alien must:
(i) Be a member of a religious denomination having a bona fide non-profit religious organization in the United States for at least two years immediately preceding the time of application for admission;
(ii) Be coming to the United States to work at least in a part time position (average of at least 20 hours per week);
(iii) Be coming solely as a minister or to perform a religious vocation or occupation as defined in paragraph (r)(3) of this section (in either a professional or nonprofessional capacity);
(iv) Be coming to or remaining in the United States at the request of the petitioner to work for the petitioner; and
(v) Not work in the United States in any other capacity, except as provided in paragraph (r)(2) of this section.
(2) An alien may work for more than one qualifying employer as long as each qualifying employer submits a petition plus all additional required documentation as prescribed by USCIS regulations.
(3)
Definitions.
As used in this section, the term:
Bona fide non-profit religious organization in the United States
means a religious organization exempt from taxation as described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, subsequent amendment or equivalent sections of prior enactments of the Internal Revenue Code, and possessing a currently valid determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) confirming such exemption.
Bona fide organization which is affiliated with the religious denomination
means an organization which is closely associated with the religious denomination and which is exempt from taxation as described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or subsequent amendment or equivalent sections of prior enactments of the Internal Revenue Code, and possessing a currently valid determination letter from the IRS confirming such exemption.
Denominational membership
means membership during at least the two-year period immediately preceding the filing date of the petition, in the same type of religious denomination as the United States religious organization where the alien will work.
Minister
means an individual who:
(A) Is fully authorized by a religious denomination, and fully trained according to the denomination's standards, to conduct religious worship and perform other duties usually performed by authorized members of the clergy of that denomination;
(B) Is not a lay preacher or a person not authorized to perform duties usually performed by clergy;
(C) Performs activities with a rational relationship to the religious calling of the minister; and
(D) Works solely as a minister in the United States which may include administrative duties incidental to the duties of a minister.
Petition
means the form or as may be prescribed by USCIS, a supplement containing attestations required by this section, and the supporting evidence required by this part.
Religious denomination
means a religious group or community of believers that is governed or administered under a common type of ecclesiastical government and includes one or more of the following:
(A) A recognized common creed or statement of faith shared among the denomination's members;
(B) A common form of worship;
(C) A common formal code of doctrine and discipline;
(D) Common religious services and ceremonies;
(E) Common established places of religious worship or religious congregations; or
(F) Comparable indicia of a bona fide religious denomination.
Religious occupation
means an occupation that meets all of the following requirements:
(A) The duties must primarily relate to a traditional religious function and be recognized as a religious occupation within the denomination;
(B) The duties must be primarily related to, and must clearly involve, inculcating or carrying out the religious creed and beliefs of the denomination;
(C) The duties do not include positions which are primarily administrative or support such as janitors, maintenance workers, clerical employees, fund raisers, persons solely involved in the solicitation of donations, or similar positions, although limited administrative duties that are only incidental to religious functions are permissible; and
(D) Religious study or training for religious work does not constitute a religious occupation, but a religious worker may pursue study or training incident to status.
Religious vocation
means a formal lifetime commitment, through vows, investitures, ceremonies, or similar indicia, to a religious way of life. The religious denomination must have a class of individuals whose lives are dedicated to religious practices and functions, as distinguished from the secular members of the religion. Examples of vocations include nuns, monks, and religious brothers and sisters.
Religious worker
means an individual engaged in and, according to the denomination's standards, qualified for a religious occupation or vocation, whether or not in a professional capacity, or as a minister.
Tax-exempt organization
means an organization that has received a determination letter from the IRS establishing that it, or a group it belongs to, is exempt from taxation in accordance with sections 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or subsequent amendments or equivalent sections of prior enactments of the Internal Revenue Code.
(4)
Requirements for admission/change of status; time limits
—(i)
Principal applicant (R-1 nonimmigrant).
If otherwise admissible, an alien who meets the requirements of section 101(a)(15)(R) of the Act may be admitted as an R-1 alien or changed to R-1 status for an initial period of up to 30 months from date of initial admission. If visa-exempt, the alien must present original documentation of the petition approval.
(ii)
Spouse and children (R-2 status).
The spouse and unmarried children under the age of 21 of an R-1 alien may be accompanying or following to join the R-1 alien, subject to the following conditions:
(A) R-2 status is granted for the same period of time and subject to the same limits as the principal, regardless of the time such spouse and children may have spent in the United States in R-2 status;
(B) Neither the spouse nor children may accept employment while in the United States in R-2 status; and
(C) The primary purpose of the spouse or children coming to the United States must be to join or accompany the principal R-1 alien.
(5)
Extension of stay or readmission.
An R-1 alien who is maintaining status or is seeking readmission and who satisfies the eligibility requirements of this section may be granted an extension of R-1 stay or readmission in R-1 status for the validity period of the petition, up to 30 months, provided the total period spent in R-1 status does not exceed a maximum of 5 years. A Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker to request an extension of R-1 status must be filed by the employer with a supplement prescribed by USCIS containing attestations required by this section, the fee specified in 8 CFR part 106, and the supporting evidence, in accordance with the applicable form instructions.
(6)
Limitation on total stay.
An alien who has spent five years in the United States in R-1 status may not be readmitted to or receive an extension of stay in the United States under the R visa classification unless the alien has resided abroad and has been physically present outside the United States for the immediate prior year. The limitations in this paragraph shall not apply to R-1 aliens who did not reside continually in the United States and whose employment in the United States was seasonal or intermittent or was for an aggregate of six months or less per year. In addition, the limitations shall not apply to aliens who reside abroad and regularly commute to the United States to engage in part-time employment. To qualify for this exception, the petitioner and the alien must provide clear and convincing proof that the alien qualifies for such an exception. Such proof shall consist of evidence such as arrival and departure records, transcripts of processed income tax returns, and records of employment abroad.
(7)
Jurisdiction and procedures for obtaining R-1 status.
An employer in the United States seeking to employ a religious worker, by initial petition or by change of status, shall file a petition in accordance with the applicable form instructions.
(8)
Attestation.
An authorized official of the prospective employer of an R-1 alien must complete, sign and date an attestation prescribed by USCIS and submit it along with the petition. The prospective employer must specifically attest to all of the following:
(i) That the prospective employer is a bona fide non-profit religious organization or a bona fide organization which is affiliated with the religious denomination and is exempt from taxation;
(ii) That the alien has been a member of the denomination for at least two years and that the alien is otherwise qualified for the position offered;
(iii) The number of members of the prospective employer's organization;
(iv) The number of employees who work at the same location where the beneficiary will be employed and a summary of the type of responsibilities of those employees. USCIS may request a list of all employees, their titles, and a brief description of their duties at its discretion;
(v) The number of aliens holding special immigrant or nonimmigrant religious worker status currently employed or employed within the past five years by the prospective employer's organization;
(vi) The number of special immigrant religious worker and nonimmigrant religious worker petitions and applications filed by or on behalf of any aliens for employment by the prospective employer in the past five years;
(vii) The title of the position offered to the alien and a detailed description of the alien's proposed daily duties;
(viii) Whether the alien will receive salaried or non-salaried compensation and the details of such compensation;
(ix) That the alien will be employed at least 20 hours per week;
(x) The specific location(s) of the proposed employment; and
(xi) That the alien will not be engaged in secular employment.
(9)
Evidence relating to the petitioning organization.
A petition shall include the following initial evidence relating to the petitioning organization:
(i) A currently valid determination letter from the IRS showing that the
organization is a tax-exempt organization; or
(ii) For a religious organization that is recognized as tax-exempt under a group tax-exemption, a currently valid determination letter from the IRS establishing that the group is tax-exempt; or
(iii) For a bona fide organization that is affiliated with the religious denomination, if the organization was granted tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3), or subsequent amendment or equivalent sections of prior enactments, of the Internal Revenue Code, as something other than a religious organization:
(A) A currently valid determination letter from the IRS establishing that the organization is a tax-exempt organization;
(B) Documentation that establishes the religious nature and purpose of the organization, such as a copy of the organizing instrument of the organization that specifies the purposes of the organization;
(C) Organizational literature, such as books, articles, brochures, calendars, flyers, and other literature describing the religious purpose and nature of the activities of the organization; and
(D) A religious denomination certification. The religious organization must complete, sign and date a statement certifying that the petitioning organization is affiliated with the religious denomination. The statement must be submitted by the petitioner along with the petition.
(10)
Evidence relating to the qualifications of a minister.
If the alien is a minister, the petitioner must submit the following:
(i) A copy of the alien's certificate of ordination or similar documents reflecting acceptance of the alien's qualifications as a minister in the religious denomination; and
(ii) Documents reflecting acceptance of the alien's qualifications as a minister in the religious denomination, as well as evidence that the alien has completed any course of prescribed theological education at an accredited theological institution normally required or recognized by that religious denomination, including transcripts, curriculum, and documentation that establishes that the theological education is accredited by the denomination, or
(iii) For denominations that do not require a prescribed theological education, evidence of:
(A) The denomination's requirements for ordination to minister;
(B) The duties allowed to be performed by virtue of ordination;
(C) The denomination's levels of ordination, if any; and
(D) The alien's completion of the denomination's requirements for ordination.
(11)
Evidence relating to compensation.
Initial evidence must state how the petitioner intends to compensate the alien, including specific monetary or in-kind compensation, or whether the alien intends to be self-supporting. In either case, the petitioner must submit verifiable evidence explaining how the petitioner will compensate the alien or how the alien will be self-supporting. Compensation may include:
(i)
Salaried or non-salaried compensation.
Evidence of compensation may include past evidence of compensation for similar positions; budgets showing monies set aside for salaries, leases, etc.; verifiable documentation that room and board will be provided; or other evidence acceptable to USCIS. IRS documentation, such as IRS Form W-2 or certified tax returns, must be submitted, if available. If IRS documentation is unavailable, the petitioner must submit an explanation for the absence of IRS documentation, along with comparable, verifiable documentation.
(ii)
Self support.
(A) If the alien will be self-supporting, the petitioner must submit documentation establishing that the position the alien will hold is part of an established program for temporary, uncompensated missionary work, which is part of a broader international program of missionary work sponsored by the denomination.
(B) An established program for temporary, uncompensated work is defined to be a missionary program in which:
(
1
) Foreign workers, whether compensated or uncompensated, have previously participated in R-1 status;
(
2
) Missionary workers are traditionally uncompensated;
(
3
) The organization provides formal training for missionaries; and
(
4
) Participation in such missionary work is an established element of religious development in that denomination.
(C) The petitioner must submit evidence demonstrating:
(
1
) That the organization has an established program for temporary, uncompensated missionary work;
(
2
) That the denomination maintains missionary programs both in the United states and abroad;
(
3
) The religious worker's acceptance into the missionary program;
(
4
) The religious duties and responsibilities associated with the traditionally uncompensated missionary work; and
(
5
) Copies of the alien's bank records, budgets documenting the sources of self-support (including personal or family savings, room and board with host families in the United States, donations from the denomination's churches), or other verifiable evidence acceptable to USCIS.
(12)
Evidence of previous R-1 employment.
Any request for an extension of stay as an R-1 must include initial evidence of the previous R-1 employment. If the beneficiary:
(i) Received salaried compensation, the petitioner must submit IRS documentation that the alien received a salary, such as an IRS Form W-2 or certified copies of filed income tax returns, reflecting such work and compensation for the preceding two years.
(ii) Received non-salaried compensation, the petitioner must submit IRS documentation of the non-salaried compensation if available. If IRS documentation is unavailable, an explanation for the absence of IRS documentation must be provided, and the petitioner must provide verifiable evidence of all financial support, including stipends, room and board, or other support for the beneficiary by submitting a description of the location where the beneficiary lived, a lease to establish where the beneficiary lived, or other evidence acceptable to USCIS.
(iii) Received no salary but provided for his or her own support, and that of any dependents, the petitioner must show how support was maintained by submitting with the petition verifiable documents such as audited financial statements, financial institution records, brokerage account statements, trust documents signed by an attorney, or other evidence acceptable to USCIS.
(13)
Change or addition of employers.
An R-1 alien may not be compensated for work for any religious organization other than the one for which a petition has been approved or the alien will be out of status. A different or additional employer seeking to employ the alien may obtain prior approval of such employment through the filing of a separate petition and appropriate supplement, supporting documents, and fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2.
(14)
Employer obligations.
When an R-1 alien is working less than the required number of hours or has been released from or has otherwise terminated employment before the expiration of a period of authorized R-1 stay, the R-1 alien's approved employer must notify DHS within 14 days using procedures set forth in the instructions to the petition or otherwise prescribed by USCIS on the USCIS Internet Web site at
www.uscis.gov.
(15)
Nonimmigrant intent.
An alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(R) of the Act shall maintain an intention to depart the United States upon the expiration or termination of R-1 or R-2 status. However, a nonimmigrant petition, application for initial admission, change of status, or extension of stay in R classification may not be denied solely on the basis of a filed or an approved request for permanent labor certification or a filed or approved immigrant visa preference petition.
(16)
Inspections, evaluations, verifications, and compliance reviews.
The supporting evidence submitted may be verified by USCIS through any means determined appropriate by USCIS, up to and including an on-site inspection of the petitioning organization. The inspection may include a tour of the organization's facilities, an interview with the organization's officials, a review of selected organization records relating to compliance with immigration laws and regulations, and an interview with any other individuals or review of any other records that the USCIS considers pertinent to
the integrity of the organization. An inspection may include the organization headquarters, or satellite locations, or the work locations planned for the applicable employee. If USCIS decides to conduct a pre-approval inspection, satisfactory completion of such inspection will be a condition for approval of any petition.
(17)
Denial and appeal of petition.
USCIS will provide written notification of the reasons for the denial under 8 CFR 103.3(a)(1). The petitioner may appeal the denial under 8 CFR 103.3.
(18)
Revocation of approved petitions
—(i)
Director discretion.
The director may revoke a petition at any time, even after the expiration of the petition.
(ii)
Automatic revocation.
The approval of any petition is automatically revoked if the petitioner ceases to exist or files a written withdrawal of the petition.
(iii)
Revocation on notice
—(A)
Grounds for revocation.
The director shall send to the petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the petition in relevant part if he or she finds that:
(
1
) The beneficiary is no longer employed by the petitioner in the capacity specified in the petition;
(
2
) The statement of facts contained in the petition was not true and correct;
(
3
) The petitioner violated terms and conditions of the approved petition;
(
4
) The petitioner violated requirements of section 101(a)(15)(R) of the Act or paragraph (r) of this section; or
(
5
) The approval of the petition violated paragraph (r) of this section or involved gross error.
(B)
Notice and decision.
The notice of intent to revoke shall contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation and the time period allowed for the petitioner's rebuttal. The petitioner may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of receipt of the notice. The director shall consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to revoke the petition.
(19)
Appeal of a revocation of a petition.
A petition that has been revoked on notice in whole or in part may be appealed under 8 CFR 103.3. Automatic revocations may not be appealed.
(s)
NATO nonimmigrant aliens
—(1)
General
—(i)
Background.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is constituted of nations signatory to the North Atlantic Treaty. The Agreement Between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their Forces, signed in London, June 1951 (NATO Status of Forces Agreement), is the agreement between those nations that defines the terms of the status of their armed forces while serving abroad.
(A) Nonimmigrant aliens classified as NATO-1 through NATO-5 are officials, employees, or persons associated with NATO, and members of their immediate families, who may enter the United States in accordance with the NATO Status of Forces Agreement or the Protocol on the Status of International Military Headquarters set up pursuant to the North Atlantic Treaty (Paris Protocol). The following specific classifications shall be assigned to such NATO nonimmigrants:
(
1
) NATO-1—A principal permanent representative of a Member State to NATO (including any of its subsidiary bodies) resident in the United States and resident members of permanent representative's official staff; Secretary General, Deputy Secretary General, Assistant Secretaries General and Executive Secretary of NATO; other permanent NATO officials of similar rank; and the members of the immediate family of such persons.
(
2
) NATO-2—Other representatives of Member States to NATO (including any of its subsidiary bodies) including representatives, advisers and technical experts of delegations, and the members of the immediate family of such persons; dependents of members of a force entering in accordance with the provisions of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement or in accordance with the provisions of the Paris Protocol; members of such a force, if issued visas.
(
3
) NATO-3—Official clerical staff accompanying a representative of a Member State to NATO (including any of its subsidiary bodies) and the members of the immediate family of such persons.
(
4
) NATO-4—Officials of NATO (other than those classifiable under NATO-1) and the members of their immediate family
(
5
) NATO-5—Experts, other than NATO officials classifiable under
NATO-4, employed on missions on behalf of NATO and their dependents.
(B) Nonimmigrant aliens classified as NATO-6 are civilians, and members of their immediate families, who may enter the United States as employees of a force entering in accordance with the NATO Status of Forces Agreement, or as members of a civilian component attached to or employed by NATO Headquarters, Supreme Allied Commander, Atlantic (SACLANT), set up pursuant to the Paris Protocol.
(C) Nonimmigrant aliens classified as NATO-7 are attendants, servants, or personal employees of nonimmigrant aliens classified as NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, and NATO-6, who are authorized to work only for the NATO-1 through NATO-6 nonimmigrant from whom they derive status, and members of their immediate families.
(ii)
Admission and extension of stay.
NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, and NATO-5 aliens are normally exempt from inspection under 8 CFR 235.1(c). NATO-6 aliens may be authorized admission for duration of status. NATO-7 aliens may be admitted for not more than 3 years and may be granted extensions of temporary stay in increments of not more than 2 years. In addition, an application for extension of temporary stay for a NATO-7 alien must be accompanied by a statement signed by the employing official stating that he or she intends to continue to employ the NATO-7 applicant, describing the work the applicant will perform, and acknowledging that this is, and will be, the sole employment of the NATO-7 applicant.
(2)
Definition of a dependent of a NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6.
For purposes of employment in the United States, the term
dependent
of a NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 principal alien, as used in this section, means any of the following immediate members of the family habitually residing in the same household as the NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States:
(i) Spouse;
(ii) Unmarried children under the age of 21;
(iii) Unmarried sons or daughters under the age of 23 who are in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions;
(iv) Unmarried sons or daughters under the age of 25 who are in full-time attendance as students at post-secondary educational institutions if a formal bilateral employment agreement permitting their employment in the United States was signed prior to November 21, 1988, and such bilateral employment agreements do not specify under the age of 23 as the maximum age for employment of such sons and daughters;
(v) Unmarried sons or daughters who are physically or mentally disabled to the extent that they cannot adequately care for themselves or cannot establish, maintain, or re-establish their own households. The Service may require medical certification(s) as it deems necessary to document such mental or physical disability.
(3)
Dependent employment requirements based on formal bilateral employment agreements and informal de facto reciprocal arrangements
—(i)
Formal bilateral employment agreements.
The Department of State's Family Liaison office (FLO) shall maintain all listing of NATO Member States which have entered into formal bilateral employment agreements that include NATO personnel. A dependent of a NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may accept, or continue in, unrestricted employment based on such formal bilateral agreement upon favorable recommendation by SACLANT, pursuant to paragraph (s)(5) of this section, and issuance of employment authorization documentation by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. The application procedures are set forth in paragraph (s)(5) of this section.
(ii)
Informal de facto reciprocal arrangements.
For purposes of this section, an informal de facto reciprocal arrangement exists when the Office of
the Secretary of Defense, Foreign Military Rights Affairs (OSD/FMRA), certifies, with State Department concurrence, that a NATO Member State allows appropriate employment in the local economy for dependents of members of the force and members of the civilian component of the United States assigned to duty in the NATO Member State. OSD/FMRA and State's FLO shall maintain a listing of countries with which such reciprocity exists. Dependents of a NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 principal alien assigned to official duty in the United States may be authorized to accept, or continue in, employment based upon informal de facto arrangements upon favorable recommendation by SACLANT, pursuant to paragraph (s)(5) of this section, and issuance of employment authorization by the Service in accordance with 8 CFR part 274a. Additionally, the application procedures set forth in paragraph (s)(5) of this section must be complied with, and the following conditions must be met:
(A) Both the principal alien and the dependent requesting employment are maintaining NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 status, as appropriate;
(B) The principal alien's total length of assignment in the United States is expected to last more than 6 months;
(C) Employment of a similar nature for dependents of members of the force and members of the civilian component of the United States assigned to official duty in the NATO Member State employing the principal alien is not prohibited by the NATO Member State;
(D) The proposed employment is not in an occupation listed in the Department of Labor's Schedule B (20 CFR part 656), or otherwise determined by the Department of Labor to be one for which there is an oversupply of qualified United States workers in the area of proposed employment. This Schedule B restriction does not apply to a dependent son or daughter who is a full-time student if the employment is part-time, consisting of not more than 20 hours per week, of if it is temporary employment of not more than 12 weeks during school holiday periods; and
(E) The proposed employment is not contrary to the interest of the United States. Employment contrary to the interest of the United States includes, but is not limited to, the employment of NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 dependents who have criminal records; who have violated United States immigration laws or regulations, or visa laws or regulations; who have worked illegally in the United States; or who cannot establish that they have paid taxes and social security on income from current or previous United States employment.
(iii) State's FLO shall inform the Service, by contacting Headquarters, Adjudications, Attention: Chief, Business and Trade Services Branch, 425 I Street, NW., Washington, DC 20536, of any additions or changes to the formal bilateral employment agreements and informal de facto reciprocal arrangements.
(4)
Applicability of a formal bilateral agreement or an informal de facto arrangement for NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6 dependents.
The applicability of a formal bilateral agreement shall be based on the NATO Member State which employs the principal alien and not on the nationality of the principal alien or dependent. The applicability of an informal de facto arrangement shall be based on the NATO Member State which employs the principal alien, and the principal alien also must be a national of the NATO Member State which employs him or her in the United States. Dependents of SACLANT employees receive bilateral agreement or de facto arrangement employment privileges as appropriate based upon the nationality of the SACLANT employee (principal alien).
(5)
Application procedures.
The following procedures are required for dependent employment applications under bilateral agreements and de facto arrangements:
(i) The dependent of a NATO alien shall submit a complete application for employment authorization, including Form I-765 and Form I-566, completed in accordance with the instructions on, or attached to, those forms. The complete application shall be submitted to
SACLANT for certification of the Form I-566 and forwarding to the Service.
(ii) In a case where a bilateral dependent employment agreement containing a numerical limitation on the number of dependents authorized to work is applicable, the certifying officer of SACLANT shall not forward the application for employment authorization to the Service unless, following consultation with State's Office of Protocol, the certifying officer has confirmed that this numerical limitation has not been reached. The countries with such limitations are indicated on the bilateral/de facto dependent employment listing issued by State's FLO.
(iii) SACLANT shall keep copies of each application and certified Form I-566 for 3 years from the date of the certification.
(iv) A dependent applying under the terms of a de facto arrangement must also attach a statement from the prospective employer which includes the dependent's name, a description of the position offered, the duties to be performed, the hours to be worked, the salary offered, and verification that the dependent possesses the qualifications for the position.
(v) A dependent applying under paragraph (s)(2) (iii) or (iv) of this section must also submit a certified statement from the post-secondary educational institution confirming that he or she is pursuing studies on a full-time basis.
(vi) A dependent applying under paragraph (s)(2)(v) of this section must also submit medical certification regarding his or her condition. The certification should identify both the dependent and the certifying physician, give the physician's phone number, identify the condition, describe the symptoms, provide a clear prognosis, and certify that the dependent is unable to maintain a home of his or her own.
(vii) The Service may require additional supporting documentation, but only after consultation with SACLANT.
(6)
Period of time for which employment may be authorized.
If approved, an application to accept or continue employment under this paragraph shall be granted in increments of not more than 3 years.
(7)
Income tax and Social Security liability.
Dependents who are granted employment authorization under this paragraph are responsible for payment of all Federal, state, and local income taxes, employment and related taxes and Social Security contributions on any remuneration received.
(8)
No appeal.
There shall be no appeal from a denial of permission to accept or continue employment under this paragraph.
(9)
Unauthorized employment.
An alien classified as a NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, NATO-6, or NATO-7 who is not a NATO principal alien and who engages in employment outside the scope of, or in a manner contrary to, this paragraph may be considered in violation of status pursuant to section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act. A NATO principal alien in those classifications who engages in employment outside the scope of his or her official position may be considered in violation of status pursuant to section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act.
(t)
Alien witnesses and informants
—(1)
Alien witness or informant in criminal matter.
An alien may be classified as an S-5 alien witness or informant under the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(S)(i) of the Act if, in the exercise of discretion pursuant to an application on Form I-854 by an interested federal or state law enforcement authority (“LEA”), it is determined by the Commissioner that the alien:
(i) Possesses critical reliable information concerning a criminal organization or enterprise;
(ii) Is willing to supply, or has supplied, such information to federal or state LEA; and
(iii) Is essential to the success of an authorized criminal investigation or the successful prosecution of an individual involved in the criminal organization or enterprise.
(2)
Alien witness or informant in counterterrorism matter.
An alien may be classified as an S-6 alien counterterrorism witness or informant under the provisions of section 101(a)(15)(S)(ii) of the Act if it is determined by the Secretary of State and the Commissioner acting jointly, in the exercise of their discretion, pursuant to an application
on Form I-854 by an interested federal LEA, that the alien:
(i) Possesses critical reliable information concerning a terrorist organization, enterprise, or operation;
(ii) Is willing to supply or has supplied such information to a federal LEA;
(iii) Is in danger or has been placed in danger as a result of providing such information; and
(iv) Is eligible to receive a reward under section 36(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, 22 U.S.C. 2708(a).
(3)
Spouse, married and unmarried sons and daughters, and parents of alien witness or informant in criminal or counterterrorism matter.
An alien spouse, married or unmarried son or daughter, or parent of an alien witness or informant may be granted derivative S classification (S-7) when accompanying, or following to join, the alien witness or informant if, in the exercise of discretion by, with respect to paragraph (t)(1) of this section, the Commissioner, or, with respect to paragraph (t)(2) of this section, the Secretary of State and the Commissioner acting jointly, consider it to be appropriate. A nonimmigrant in such derivative S-7 classification shall be subject to the same period of admission, limitations, and restrictions as the alien witness or informant and must be identified by the requesting LEA on the application Form I-854 in order to qualify for S nonimmigrant classification. Family members not identified on the Form I-854 application will not be eligible for S nonimmigrant classification.
(4)
Request for S nonimmigrant classification.
An application on Form I-854, requesting S nonimmigrant classification for a witness or informant, may only be filed by a federal or state LEA (which shall include a federal or state court or a United States Attorney's Office) directly in need of the information to be provided by the alien witness or informant. The completed application is filed with the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, who will forward only properly certified applications that fall within the numerical limitation to the Commissioner, Immigration and Naturalization Service, for approval, pursuant to the following process.
(i)
Filing request.
For an alien to qualify for status as an S nonimmigrant, S nonimmigrant classification must be requested by an LEA. The LEA shall recommend an alien for S nonimmigrant classification by: Completing Form I-854, with all necessary endorsements and attachments, in accordance with the instructions on, or attached to, that form, and agreeing, as a condition of status, that no promises may be, have been, or will be made by the LEA that the alien will or may remain in the United States in S or any other nonimmigrant classification or parole, adjust status to that of lawful permanent resident, or otherwise attempt to remain beyond a 3-year period other than by the means authorized by section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act. The alien, including any derivative beneficiary who is 18 years or older, shall sign a statement, that is part of or affixed to Form I-854, acknowledging awareness that he or she is restricted by the terms of S nonimmigrant classification to the specific terms of section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act as the exclusive means by which he or she may remain permanently in the United States.
(A)
District director referral.
Any district director or Service officer who receives a request by an alien, an eligible LEA, or other entity seeking S nonimmigrant classification shall advise the requestor of the process and the requirements for applying for S nonimmigrant classification. Eligible LEAs seeking S nonimmigrant classification shall be referred to the Commissioner.
(B)
United States Attorney certification.
The United States Attorney with jurisdiction over a prosecution or investigation that forms the basis for a request for S nonimmigrant classification must certify and endorse the application on Form I-854 and agree that no promises may be, have been, or will be made that the alien will or may remain in the United States in S or any other nonimmigrant classification or parole, adjust status to lawful permanent resident, or attempt to remain beyond the authorized period of admission.
(C)
LEA certification.
LEA certifications on Form I-854 must be made at the seat-of-government level, if federal, or the highest level of the state LEA involved in the matter. With respect to the alien for whom S nonimmigrant classification is sought, the LEA shall provide evidence in the form of attachments establishing the nature of the alien's cooperation with the government, the need for the alien's presence in the United States, all conduct or conditions which may constitute a ground or grounds of excludability, and all factors and considerations warranting a favorable exercise of discretionary waiver authority by the Attorney General on the alien's behalf. The attachments submitted with a request for S nonimmigrant classification may be in the form of affidavits, statements, memoranda, or similar documentation. The LEA shall review Form I-854 for accuracy and ensure the alien understands the certifications made on Form I-854.
(D)
Filing procedure.
Upon completion of Form I-854, the LEA shall forward the form and all required attachments to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, United States Department of Justice, at the address listed on the form.
(ii)
Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division review
—(A)
Review of information.
Upon receipt of a complete application for S nonimmigrant classification on Form I-854, with all required attachments, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall ensure that all information relating to the basis of the application, the need for the witness or informant, and grounds of excludability under section 212 of the Act has been provided to the Service on Form I-854, and shall consider the negative and favorable factors warranting an exercise of discretion on the alien's behalf. No application may be acted on by the Assistant Attorney General unless the eligible LEA making the request has proceeded in accordance with the instructions on, or attached to, Form I-854 and agreed to all provisions therein.
(B)
Advisory panel.
Where necessary according to procedures established by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, an advisory panel, composed of representatives of the Service, Marshals Service, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Drug Enforcement Administration, Criminal Division, and the Department of State, and those representatives of other LEAs, including state and federal courts designated by the Attorney General, will review the completed application and submit a recommendation to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, regarding requests for S nonimmigrant classification. The function of this advisory panel is to prioritize cases in light of the numerical limitation in order to determine which cases will be forwarded to the Commissioner.
(C)
Assistant Attorney General certification.
The certification of the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, to the Commissioner recommending approval of the application for S nonimmigrant classification shall contain the following:
(
1
) All information and attachments that may constitute, or relate to, a ground or grounds of excludability under section 212(a) of the Act;
(
2
) Each section of law under which the alien appears to be inadmissible;
(
3
) The reasons that waiver(s) of inadmissibility are considered to be justifiable and in the national interest;
(
4
) A detailed statement that the alien is eligible for S nonimmigrant classification, explaining the nature of the alien's cooperation with the government and the government's need for the alien's presence in the United States;
(
5
) The intended date of arrival;
(
6
) The length of the proposed stay in the United States;
(
7
) The purpose of the proposed stay; and
(
8
) A statement that the application falls within the statutorily specified numerical limitation.
(D)
Submission of certified requests for S nonimmigrant classification to Service.
(
1
) The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall forward to the Commissioner only qualified applications for S-5 nonimmigrant classification that have been certified in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph and that fall within the annual numerical limitation.
(
2
) The Assistant Attorney General Criminal Division, shall forward to the Commissioner applications for S-6 nonimmigrant classification that have been certified in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, certified by the Secretary of State or eligibility for S-6 classification, and that fall within the annual numerical limitation.
(5)
Decision on application.
(i) The Attorney General's authority to waive grounds of excludability pursuant to section 212 of the Act is delegated to the Commissioner and shall be exercised with regard to S nonimmigrant classification only upon the certification of the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division. Such certification is nonreviewable as to the matter's significance, importance, and/or worthwhileness to law enforcement. The Commissioner shall make the final decision to approve or deny a request for S nonimmigrant classification certified by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division.
(ii)
Decision to approve application.
Upon approval of the application on Form I-854, the Commissioner shall notify the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the Secretary of State, and Service officers as appropriate. Admission shall be authorized for a period not to exceed 3 years.
(iii)
Decision to deny application.
In the event the Commissioner decides to deny an application for S nonimmigrant classification on Form I-854, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to deny.
(6)
Submission of requests for S nonimmigrant visa classification to Secretary of State.
No request for S nonimmigrant visa classification may be presented to the Secretary of State unless it is approved and forwarded by the Commissioner.
(7)
Conditions of status.
An alien witness or informant is responsible for certifying and fulfilling the terms and conditions specified on Form I-854 as a condition of status. The LEA that assumes responsibility for the S nonimmigrant must:
(i) Ensure that the alien:
(A) Reports quarterly to the LEA on his or her whereabouts and activities, and as otherwise specified on Form I-854 or pursuant to the terms of his or her S nonimmigrant classification;
(B) Notifies the LEA of any change of home or work address and phone numbers or any travel plans;
(C) Abides by the law and all specified terms, limitations, or restrictions on the visa, Form I-854, or any waivers pursuant to classification; and
(D) Cooperates with the responsible LEA in accordance with the terms of his or her classification and any restrictions on Form I-854;
(ii) Provide the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, with the name of the control agent on an ongoing basis and provide a quarterly report indicating the whereabouts, activities, and any other control information required on Form I-854 or by the Assistant Attorney General;
(iii) Report immediately to the Service any failure on the alien's part to:
(A) Report quarterly;
(B) Cooperate with the LEA;
(C) Comply with the terms and conditions of the specific S nonimmigrant classification; or
(D) Refrain from criminal activity that may render the alien deportable, which information shall also be forwarded to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division; and
(iv) Report annually to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, on whether the alien's S nonimmigrant classification and cooperation resulted in either:
(A) A successful criminal prosecution or investigation or the failure to produce a successful resolution of the matter; or
(B) The prevention or frustration of terrorist acts or the failure to prevent such acts.
(v) Assist the alien in his or her application to the Service for employment authorization.
(8)
Annual report.
The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, in consultation with the Commissioner, shall compile the statutorily mandated annual report to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
(9)
Admission.
The responsible LEA will coordinate the admission of an alien in S nonimmigrant classification with the Commissioner as to the date, time, place, and manner of the alien's arrival.
(10)
Employment.
An alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act may apply for employment authorization by filing Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, with fee, in accordance with the instructions on, or attached to, that form pursuant to § 274a.12(c)(21) of this chapter.
(11)
Failure to maintain status.
An alien classified under section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act shall abide by all the terms and conditions of his or her S nonimmigrant classification imposed by the Attorney General. If the terms and conditions of S nonimmigrant classification will not be or have not been met, or have been violated, the alien is convicted of any criminal offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of 1 year or more, is otherwise rendered deportable, or it is otherwise appropriate or in the public interest to do so, the Commissioner shall proceed to deport an alien pursuant to the terms of 8 CFR 242.26. In the event the Commissioner decides to deport an alien witness or informant in S nonimmigrant classification, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to deport.
(12)
Change of classification.
(i) An alien in S nonimmigrant classification is prohibited from changing to any other nonimmigrant classification.
(ii) An LEA may request that any alien lawfully admitted to the United States and maintaining status in accordance with the provisions of § 248.1 of this chapter, except for those aliens enumerated in 8 CFR 248.2, have his or her nonimmigrant classification changed to that of an alien classified pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act as set forth in 8 CFR 248.3(h).
(u) [Reserved]
(v)
Certain spouses and children of LPRs.
Section 214.15 of this chapter provides the procedures and requirements pertaining to V nonimmigrant status.
(w)
CNMI-Only Transitional Worker (CW-1).
Table 5 to Paragraph (
w
)—Paragraph Contents
(1) Definitions
(2) Eligible aliens
(3) Derivative beneficiaries—CW-2 nonimmigrant classification
(4) Eligible employers
(5) Petition requirements
(6) Appropriate documents
(7) Change of employers
(8) Amended or new petition
(9) Multiple beneficiaries
(10) Named beneficiaries
(11) Early termination
(12) Approval
(13) Petition validity
(14) Validity of the labor certification
(15) How to apply for CW-1 or CW-2 status
(16) Biometrics and other information
(17) Period of admission
(18) Extension of petition validity and extension of stay
(19) Change or adjustment of status
(20) Effect of filing an application for or approval of a permanent labor certification, preference petition, or filing of an application for adjustment of status on CW-1 or CW-2 classification
(21) Rejection
(22) Denial
(23) Terms and conditions of CW Nonimmigrant status
(24) Expiration of status
(25) Waivers of inadmissibility for applicants lawfully present in the CNMI
(26) Semiannual report
(27) Revocation of approval of petition
(28) Appeal of a revocation of a petition
(29) Notice to DOL
(1)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to petitions for and maintenance of CW status in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (the CNMI or the Commonwealth):
(i)
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
means the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)-approved Form ETA-9142C (or successor form) and the appropriate appendices, a valid prevailing wage determination (Form ETA-9141C, or successor form), and all supporting documentation submitted by an employer, as set forth in the U.S. Department of Labor's (DOL) regulations at 20 CFR 655.420 through 655.422, to secure a temporary labor certification determination from DOL's Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC) Administrator.
(ii)
Direct Guam transit
means travel from the CNMI to a foreign place by an alien in CW status, or from a foreign place to the CNMI by an alien with a valid CW visa, on a direct itinerary involving a flight stopover or connection in Guam (and no other place).
(iii)
Doing business
means the regular, systematic, and continuous provision of goods or services by an employer as defined in this paragraph and does not include the mere presence of an agent or office of the employer in the CNMI.
(iv)
Employer
means a person, firm, corporation, contractor, or other association, or organization which:
(A) Engages a person to work within the CNMI; and
(B) Has or will have an employer-employee relationship with the CW-1 nonimmigrant being petitioned for.
(v)
Employer-employee relationship
means that the employer will hire, pay, fire, supervise, and control the work of the employee.
(vi)
Lawfully present in the CNMI
means that the alien was lawfully admitted or paroled into the CNMI under the immigration laws on or after the transition program effective date, other than an alien admitted or paroled as a visitor for business or pleasure (B-1 or B-2, under any visa-free travel provision or parole of certain visitors from Russia and the People's Republic of China), and remains in a lawful immigration status or if paroled into the CNMI, the authorized parole period has not expired.
(vii)
Legitimate business,
as determined by DHS, means a real, active, and operating commercial or entrepreneurial undertaking that:
(A) Produces services or goods for profit, or is a governmental, charitable or other validly recognized nonprofit entity;
(B) Meets applicable legal requirements for doing business in the CNMI;
(C) Has substantially complied with wage and hour laws, occupational safety and health requirements, nondiscrimination, and all other Federal, CNMI, and local requirements relating to employment during the five-year period immediately preceding the date of filing the petition, and continues to be in substantial compliance with such requirements;
(D) Does not directly or indirectly engage in, or knowingly benefit from, prostitution, human trafficking, or any other activity that is illegal under Federal, CNMI, or local law;
(E) Is a participant in good standing in the E-Verify program;
(F) Does not have, as an owner, investor, manager, operator, or person meaningfully involved with the undertaking, any individual who has been an owner, investor, manager, operator, or person otherwise meaningfully involved with an undertaking that was not in compliance with paragraph (w)(1)(vii)(C) of this section at the time of the individual's involvement and within the five years immediately preceding the date of filing the petition; or that was not in compliance with clause paragraph (w)(1)(vii)(D) of this section at any time during which the
individual was involved with the undertaking, or is an agent of such individual; and
(G) Is not a successor in interest to an undertaking that has not complied with paragraphs (C) or (D).
(viii)
Long-term worker
means an alien who was admitted to the CNMI, or otherwise granted status, as a CW-1 nonimmigrant during fiscal year 2015, and during each of fiscal years 2016 through 2018.
(ix)
Minor child
means a child as defined in section 101(b)(1) of the Act who is under 18 years of age.
(x)
Numerical limitation
means the maximum number of persons who may be granted CW-1 status in a given fiscal year, as follows:
(A) For fiscal years 2018 through the first quarter of fiscal year 2030, the numerical limitations are:
(
1
) 9,998 for fiscal year 2018;
(
2
) 13,000 for fiscal year 2019;
(
3
) 12,500 for fiscal year 2020;
(
4
) 12,000 for fiscal year 2021;
(
5
) 11,500 for fiscal year 2022;
(
6
) 11,000 for fiscal year 2023;
(
7
) 10,000 for fiscal year 2024;
(
8
) 9,000 for fiscal year 2025;
(
9
) 8,000 for fiscal year 2026;
(
10
) 7,000 for fiscal year 2027;
(11
) 6,000 for fiscal year 2028;
(
12
) 5,000 for fiscal year 2029; and
(
13
) 1,000 for the first quarter of fiscal year 2030.
(B) A long-term worker granted CW-1 nonimmigrant status for a period exceeding one year shall be counted toward the numerical limitation, and toward any reservation of CW-1 numbers, as described in paragraph (w)(1)(x)(D)(
1
) of this section, if applicable, for each fiscal year within the period of petition validity.
(C) For each petition revoked entirely or in part in a fiscal year, the numerical limitation for the next fiscal year shall be increased by the number of beneficiaries of such petitions subject to such revocation before the end of the validity period of the petition.
(D)(
1
) Within the numerical limitations described in paragraph (w)(1)(x)(A) of this section, the following reservations of CW-1 numbers for specified occupational categories shall apply:
(
i
) 200 for occupational categories 29-0000 (Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Occupations) and 31-0000 (Healthcare Support Occupations); and
(
ii
) 60 for occupational categories related to the operations of the CNMI public utilities services, including, but not limited to, 17-2081 (Water/Waste Water Engineers), 17-2071 (Electrical Engineers), 17-2141 (Mechanical Engineers), and Trades Technicians.
(
2
) Reserved CW-1 numbers described in paragraph (w)(1)(x)(D)(
1
) of this section will be made available to eligible petitioners requesting such numbers for a fiscal year in order of filing, separately under either paragraph (w)(1)(x)(D)(
1
)(
i
) or (
ii
) of this section, until exhausted. Unused reserved numbers under either paragraph (w)(1)(x)(D)(
1
)(
i
) or (
ii
) of this section will not be available to other petitioners.
(
3
) DHS may adjust the reservation of numbers for specified occupational categories for a fiscal year or other period via publication of a notice in the
Federal Register,
as long as such adjustment is consistent with paragraph (w)(1)(x)(A) of this section. DHS will base any such adjustment on factors including: The level of past demand for reserved numbers compared to supply; whether a reservation of numbers has resulted in unused numbers; reservation of numbers compared to overall numerical limitation in a fiscal year; and any recommendation received from the Governor of the CNMI regarding the adjustment of the reservation of numbers.
(E) If the numerical limitation is not reached for a specified fiscal year, unused numbers do not carry over to the next fiscal year.
(F) If USCIS receives a sufficient number of petitions to meet the numerical limitation in paragraph (w)(1)(x)(A) of this section in a fiscal year, USCIS will cease processing further cap-subject petitions in that fiscal year, and DOL may cease processing cap-subject applications for temporary labor certification for that fiscal year.
(xi)
Occupational category
means those employment activities that DHS has determined require alien workers to supplement the resident workforce and includes:
(A) Professional, technical, or management occupations;
(B) Clerical and sales occupations;
(C) Service occupations;
(D) Agricultural, fisheries, forestry, and related occupations;
(E) Processing occupations;
(F) Machine trade occupations;
(G) Benchwork occupations;
(H) Structural work occupations; and
(I) Miscellaneous occupations.
(xii)
Participant in good standing in the E-Verify program
means an employer, as defined in paragraph (w)(1)(iv) of this section, that has enrolled in E-Verify with respect to all hiring sites in the United States as of the time of filing a petition; is in compliance with all requirements of the E-Verify program, including but not limited to verifying the employment eligibility of newly hired employees in the United States; and continues to be a participant in good standing in E-Verify at any time during which the employer employs any CW-1 nonimmigrant.
(xiii)
Petition
means USCIS Form I-129CW, Petition for a CNMI-Only Nonimmigrant Transitional Worker, a successor form, other form, or electronic equivalent, any supplemental information requested by USCIS, and additional evidence as may be prescribed or requested by USCIS.
(xiv)
Successor in interest
means an employer that is controlling and carrying on the business of a previous employer. The following factors may be considered in determining whether an employer is a successor in interest; no one factor is dispositive, but all of the circumstances will be considered as a whole:
(A) Substantial continuity of the same business operations;
(B) Use of the same facilities;
(C) Continuity of the work force;
(D) Similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(E) Similarity of supervisory personnel;
(F) Whether the former management or owner retains a direct or indirect interest in the new enterprise;
(G) Similarity in machinery, equipment, and production methods;
(H) Similarity of products and services; and
(I) The ability of the predecessor to provide relief.
(xv)
Temporary Labor Certification
or
TLC
means the certification made by the DOL OFLC Administrator, based on the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
and all supporting documentation, with respect to an employer seeking to file with a CW-1 petition.
(xvi)
Transition period
means the period beginning on the transition program effective date and ending on December 31, 2029.
(xvii)
United States worker
means a citizen or national of the United States, an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, or a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau who is eligible for nonimmigrant admission and is employment-authorized under the Compacts of Free Association between the United States and those nations.
(2)
Eligible aliens.
Subject to the numerical limitation, an alien may be classified as a CW-1 nonimmigrant if, during the transition period, the alien:
(i) Will enter or remain in the CNMI for the purpose of employment within the transition period in an occupational category that DHS has designated as requiring alien workers to supplement the resident workforce;
(ii) Is petitioned for by an employer;
(iii) Is not present in the United States, other than the CNMI;
(iv) If present in the CNMI, is lawfully present in the CNMI;
(v) Is not inadmissible to the United States as a nonimmigrant or has been granted a waiver of each applicable ground of inadmissibility;
(vi) Is ineligible for status in a nonimmigrant worker classification under section 101(a)(15) of the Act; and
(vii) Will not be employed in a Construction and Extraction Occupation (as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor as Standard Occupational Classification Group 47-0000 or successor provision) unless the alien is a long-term worker.
(3)
Derivative beneficiaries—CW-2 nonimmigrant classification.
The spouse or minor child of a CW-1 nonimmigrant may accompany or follow the alien as a CW-2 nonimmigrant if the alien:
(i) Is not present in the United States, other than the CNMI;
(ii) If present in the CNMI, is lawfully present in the CNMI; and
(iii) Is not inadmissible to the United States as a nonimmigrant or has been granted a waiver of each applicable ground of inadmissibility.
(4)
Eligible employers.
To be eligible to petition for a CW-1 nonimmigrant worker, an employer must:
(i) Be engaged in legitimate business;
(ii) Obtain a TLC from DOL and consider all available United States workers for the position being filled by the CW-1 worker;
(iii) Offer terms and conditions of employment which are consistent with the nature of the petitioner's business and the nature of the occupation, activity, and industry in the CNMI; and
(iv) Comply with all Federal and Commonwealth requirements relating to employment, including but not limited to nondiscrimination, occupational safety, and minimum wage requirements.
(5)
Petition requirements.
An employer who seeks to classify an alien as a CW-1 worker must file a petition with USCIS and pay the requisite petition fee plus the CNMI education funding fee and the fraud prevention and detection fee as prescribed in 8 CFR part 106. If the beneficiary will perform services for more than one employer, each employer must file a separate petition with fees with USCIS.
(6)
Appropriate documents.
Documentary evidence establishing eligibility for CW status is required. A petition must be accompanied by:
(i) Evidence demonstrating the petitioner meets the definition of eligible employer in this section;
(ii) An attestation by the petitioner certified as true and accurate by an appropriate official of the petitioner, of the following:
(A) The employer has not displaced and will not displace a United States worker in order to employ the beneficiary as agreed to in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification;
(B) The employer is doing business as defined in paragraph (w)(1)(iii) of this section;
(C) The employer is a legitimate business as defined in paragraph (w)(1)(vii) of this section;
(D) The employer is an eligible employer as described in paragraph (w)(4) of this section and will continue to comply with the requirements for an eligible employer until such time as the employer no longer employs the CW-1 nonimmigrant worker;
(E) The beneficiary meets the qualifications for the position;
(F) The beneficiary, if present in the CNMI, is lawfully present in the CNMI;
(G) The position is not temporary or seasonal employment, and the petitioner does not reasonably believe it to qualify as eligible for any other nonimmigrant worker classification, including H-2A or H-2B;
(H) The position falls within the list of occupational categories designated by DHS;
(I) The petitioner will pay the beneficiary a wage that is not less than the greater of—
(
1
) The CNMI minimum wage;
(
2
) The Federal minimum wage; or
(
3
) The prevailing wage in the CNMI for the occupation in which the beneficiary will be employed as established by the U.S. Department of Labor; and
(J) The petitioner will comply with the reporting and retention requirements in paragraph 26.
(iii) Evidence of licensure if an occupation requires a Commonwealth or local license for an individual to fully perform the duties of the occupation. Categories of valid licensure for CW-1 classification are:
(A)
Licensure.
An alien seeking CW-1 classification in that occupation must have that license prior to approval of the petition to be found qualified to enter the CNMI and immediately engage in employment in the occupation.
(B)
Temporary licensure.
If a temporary license is available and allowed for the occupation with a temporary license, USCIS may grant the petition at its discretion after considering the duties performed, the degree of supervision received, and any limitations placed on the alien by the employer and/or pursuant to the temporary license.
(C)
Duties without licensure.
If the CNMI allows an individual to fully
practice the occupation that usually requires a license without a license under the supervision of licensed senior or supervisory personnel in that occupation, USCIS may grant CW-1 status at its discretion after considering the duties performed, the degree of supervision received, and any limitations placed on the alien if the facts demonstrate that the alien under supervision could fully perform the duties of the occupation.
(iv) For any petition requesting an employment start date on or after October 1, 2019, including both new petitions and petitions for renewal of an existing permit, a TLC approved by DOL, confirming that there are not sufficient United States workers in the CNMI who are able, willing, qualified, and available at the time and place needed to perform the services or labor involved in the petition, and that the employment of the CW-1 nonimmigrant will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of similarly employed United States workers. If the TLC accepts certain education, training, experience, or special requirements of the beneficiary, the petition must also be accompanied by documentation that the CW-1 nonimmigrant worker qualifies for the job offer as specified in the TLC.
(7)
Change of employers.
A change of employment to a new employer inconsistent with paragraphs (w)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section will constitute a failure to maintain status within the meaning of section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act. A CW-1 nonimmigrant may change employers if:
(i) The prospective new employer files a petition to classify the alien as a CW-1 worker in accordance with paragraph (w)(5) of this section, and
(ii) An extension of the alien's stay is requested if necessary for the validity period of the petition.
(iii) A CW-1 worker may work for a prospective new employer after the prospective new employer files a Form I-129CW petition on the employee's behalf if:
(A) The prospective employer has filed a nonfrivolous petition for new employment before the date of expiration of the CW-1 worker's authorized period of stay; and
(B) Subsequent to his or her lawful admission, the CW-1 worker has not been employed without authorization in the United States.
(iv) Employment authorization shall continue for such alien until the new petition is adjudicated. If the new petition is denied, such authorization shall cease.
(v) If a CW-1 worker's employment has been terminated prior to the filing of a petition by a prospective new employer consistent with paragraphs (w)(7)(i) and (ii), or if the CW-1's current petition has been revoked (other than for the reason described in paragraph (w)(27)(iii)(A)(
7
) of this section) the CW-1 worker will not be considered to be in violation of his or her CW-1 status during the 30-day period immediately following the date on which the CW-1 worker's employment terminated if a nonfrivolous petition for new employment is filed consistent with this paragraph within that 30-day period and the CW-1 worker does not otherwise violate the terms and conditions of his or her status during that 30-day period.
(8)
Amended or new petition.
If there are any material changes in the terms and conditions of employment, the petitioner must file an amended or new petition to reflect the changes. An amended or new petition must be submitted with a new TLC approved by DOL.
(9)
Multiple beneficiaries.
A petitioning employer may include more than one beneficiary in a CW-1 petition if the beneficiaries will be working in the same occupational category, under the same terms and conditions, for the same period of time, and in the same location.
(10)
Named beneficiaries.
The petition must include the name of the beneficiary and other required information, as indicated in the form instructions, at the time of filing. Unnamed beneficiaries are not permitted.
(11)
Early termination.
The petitioning employer must pay the reasonable cost of return transportation of the alien to the alien's last place of foreign residence if the alien is dismissed from employment for any reason by the employer before the end of the period of authorized admission.
(12)
Approval.
USCIS will consider all the evidence submitted and such other evidence required in the form instructions to adjudicate the petition. USCIS will notify the petitioner of the approval of the petition on Form I-797, Notice of Action, or in another form as USCIS may prescribe.
(i) The approval notice will include the CW-1 classification and name of the beneficiary or beneficiaries and the petition's period of validity. A petition for more than one beneficiary may be approved in whole or in part.
(ii) The application for a TLC may not be filed with DOL earlier than 120 days before the date of actual need for the beneficiary's services for an initial petition for CW-1 status, or 180 days before the date of expiration of CW-1 status in the case of an extension petition described in paragraph (w)(18) of this section. The petition may then be filed with USCIS after the TLC is approved. If DOL debars an employer from obtaining a CW-1 TLC, USCIS may not approve future petitions during the debarment period.
(13)
Petition validity.
An approved petition will be valid for a period of up to one year, unless the beneficiary is a long-term worker in which case an approved petition will be valid for a period of up to three years.
(14)
Validity of the labor certification.
A TLC is valid only for the period of employment as approved on the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The TLC expires on the last day of authorized employment.
(15)
How to apply for CW-1 or CW-2 status.
(i) Upon approval of the petition, a beneficiary, his or her eligible spouse, and his or her minor child(ren) outside the CNMI will be informed in the approval notice of where they may apply for a visa authorizing admission in CW-1 or CW-2 status.
(ii) If the beneficiary is present in the CNMI, the petition also serves as the application for a grant of status as a CW-1.
(iii) If the eligible spouse and/or minor child(ren) are present in the CNMI, the spouse or child(ren) may apply for CW-2 dependent status on Form I-539 (or such alternative form as USCIS may designate) in accordance with the form instructions. The CW-2 status may not be approved until approval of the CW-1 petition.
(16)
Biometrics and other information.
The beneficiary of a CW-1 petition or the spouse or child applying for a grant or extension of CW-2 status, or a change of status to CW-2 status, must submit biometric information as requested by USCIS.
(17)
Period of admission.
(i) A CW-1 nonimmigrant will be admitted for the period of petition validity, plus up to 10 days before the validity period begins and 10 days after the validity period ends. The CW-1 nonimmigrant may not work except during the validity period of the petition. A CW-2 spouse will be admitted for the same period as the principal alien. A CW-2 minor child will be admitted for the same period as the principal alien, but such admission will not extend beyond the child's 18th birthday.
(ii) The temporary departure from the CNMI of the CW-1 nonimmigrant will not affect the derivative status of the CW-2 spouse and minor children, provided the familial relationship continues to exist and the principal remains eligible for admission as a CW-1 nonimmigrant.
(18)
Extension of petition validity and extension of stay.
(i) The petitioner may request an extension of an employee's CW-1 nonimmigrant status by filing a new petition.
(ii) A request for a petition extension may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
(iii) Extensions of CW-1 status may be granted for a period of up to 1 year (or a period of up to 3 years if the beneficiary is a long-term worker) until the end of the transition period, subject to any numerical limitation.
(iv) To qualify for an extension of stay, the petitioner must demonstrate that the beneficiary or beneficiaries:
(A) Continuously maintained the terms and conditions of CW-1 status;
(B) Remains admissible to the United States; and
(C) Remains eligible for CW-1 classification.
(v) A beneficiary (other than a long-term worker) may not be granted CW-
1 status beyond three consecutive petition validity periods unless the beneficiary has departed and remained outside of the United States for a continuous period of at least 30 days after the expiration of the third petition validity period and before the filing of any new petition on behalf of the beneficiary.
(vi) The derivative CW-2 nonimmigrant may file an application for extension of nonimmigrant stay on Form I-539 (or such alternative form as USCIS may designate) in accordance with the form instructions. The CW-2 status extension may not be approved until approval of the CW-1 extension petition.
(19)
Change or adjustment of status.
A CW-1 or CW-2 nonimmigrant can apply to change nonimmigrant status under section 248 of the Act or apply for adjustment of status under section 245 of the Act, if otherwise eligible. During the transition period, CW-1 or CW-2 nonimmigrants may be the beneficiary of a petition for or may apply for any nonimmigrant or immigrant visa classification for which they may qualify.
(20)
Effect of filing an application for or approval of a permanent labor certification, preference petition, or filing of an application for adjustment of status on CW-1 or CW-2 classification.
An alien may be granted, be admitted in and maintain lawful CW-1 or CW-2 nonimmigrant status while, at the same time, lawfully seeking to become a lawful permanent resident of the United States, provided he or she intends to depart the CNMI voluntarily at the end of the period of authorized stay. The filing of an application for or approval of a permanent labor certification or an immigrant visa preference petition, the filing of an application for adjustment of status, or the lack of residence abroad will not be the basis for denying:
(i) A CW-1 petition filed on behalf of the alien;
(ii) A request to extend a CW-1 status pursuant to a petition previously filed on behalf of the alien;
(iii) An application for CW-2 classification filed by an alien;
(iv) A request to extend CW-2 status pursuant to the extension of a related CW-1 alien's extension; or
(v) An application for admission as a CW-1 or CW-2 nonimmigrant.
(21)
Rejection.
USCIS may reject an employer's petition for new or extended CW-1 status if any numerical limitation has been met. In that case, the petition and accompanying fee will be rejected and returned with the notice that numbers are unavailable for the CW nonimmigrant classification. The beneficiary's application for admission based upon an approved petition will not be rejected based upon the numerical limitation.
(22)
Denial.
The ultimate decision to grant or deny CW-1 or CW-2 classification or status is a discretionary determination, and the petition or the application may be denied for failure of the petitioner or the applicant to demonstrate eligibility or for other good cause. The denial of a petition to classify an alien as a CW-1 may be appealed to the USCIS Administrative Appeals Office or any successor body. The denial of CW-1 or CW-2 status within the CNMI, or of an application for change or extension of status filed under this section, may not be appealed.
(23)
Terms and conditions of CW Nonimmigrant status
—(i)
Geographical limitations.
CW-1 and CW-2 statuses are only applicable in the CNMI. Entry, employment and residence in the rest of the United States (including Guam) require the appropriate visa or visa waiver and nonimmigrant classification. Except as provided in paragraph (w)(23)(iii) of this section, an alien with CW-1 or CW-2 status who enters or attempts to enter, or travels or attempts to travel to any other part of the United States without an appropriate visa or visa waiver, or who violates conditions of nonimmigrant stay applicable to any such authorized status in any other part of the United States, will be deemed to have violated CW-1 or CW-2 status.
(ii)
Re-entry.
An alien with CW-1 or CW-2 status who travels abroad from the CNMI will require a CW-1 or CW-2 or other appropriate visa to be re-admitted to the CNMI.
(iii)
Travel outside the CNMI
—(A)
Direct Guam transit from the CNMI.
An alien with CW-1 or CW-2 status may travel to a foreign place via a direct
Guam transit without being deemed to violate that status.
(B)
Travel from a foreign place to the CNMI.
An alien with a valid CW-1 or CW-2 visa, who is admissible to the CNMI in such status, may be admitted to the United States in CW-1 or CW-2 status in Guam for the purpose of a direct Guam transit to the CNMI. An alien who violates the terms of direct Guam transit violates his or her CW-1 or CW-2 status.
(iv)
Employment authorization.
An alien with CW-1 nonimmigrant status is only authorized employment in the CNMI for the petitioning employer. An alien with CW-2 status is not authorized to be employed.
(24)
Expiration of status.
CW-1 status expires when the alien violates his or her CW-1 status (or in the case of a CW-1 status violation caused solely by termination of the alien's employment, at the end of the 30 day period described in paragraph (w)(7)(v) of this section), 10 days after the end of the petition's validity period, when the petition is revoked, or at the end of the transitional worker program, whichever is earlier. CW-2 nonimmigrant status expires when the status of the related CW-1 alien expires, on a CW-2 minor child's 18th birthday, when the alien violates his or her status, or at the end of the transitional worker program, whichever is earlier. No alien will be eligible for admission to the CNMI in CW-1 or CW-2 status, and no CW-1 or CW-2 visa will be valid for travel to the CNMI, after the transitional worker program ends.
(25)
Waivers of inadmissibility for applicants lawfully present in the CNMI.
An applicant for CW-1 or CW-2 nonimmigrant status, who is otherwise eligible for such status and otherwise admissible to the United States, and who possesses appropriate documents demonstrating that the applicant is lawfully present in the CNMI, may be granted a waiver of inadmissibility under section 212(d)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act, including the grounds of inadmissibility described in sections 212(a)(6)(A)(i) and 212(a)(7)(B)(i)(II) of the Act, as a matter of discretion for the purpose of granting the CW-1 or CW-2 nonimmigrant status. Such waiver may be granted without additional form or fee. Appropriate documents required for such a waiver include a valid unexpired passport and other documentary evidence demonstrating that the applicant is lawfully present in the CNMI, such as a DHS-issued Form I-94. Evidence that the applicant possesses appropriate documents may be provided by an employer to accompany a petition, by an eligible spouse or minor child to accompany the Form I-539 (or such alternative form as USCIS may designate), or in such other manner as USCIS may designate.
(26)
Semiannual report
—(i)
Filing.
During the validity period of the petition, an employer whose petition has been approved for an employment start date on or after October 1, 2019 and for a validity period of six months or more, shall file a semiannual report, every six months after the petition validity start date up to and including the sixth month preceding the petition's validity end date. The semiannual report must be filed within a 60 day window surrounding the six month anniversary of the petition validity start date, with the filing window opening 30 days before and closing 30 days after the six month anniversary of the petition validity start date. The semiannual report must be filed with USCIS in the form and containing such evidence as USCIS may direct, to verify the continuing employment and payment of the beneficiary under the terms and conditions of the approved petition.
(ii)
Use.
DHS may provide such semiannual reports to other federal partners, including DOL for investigative or other use as the DOL may deem appropriate. Failure to comply with the requirements of paragraph (w)(26) of this section may be a basis for revocation of an approved petition as provided in paragraph (w)(27) of this section, or for denial of subsequent petitions filed by the employer.
(iii)
Document retention.
(A) An employer must retain all documents and records in support of an approved petition, and any semiannual report. An employer must retain evidence that supports the semiannual report including, but not limited to:
(
1
) Personnel records for each CW-1 worker including the name, address of
current residence in the Commonwealth, age, domicile, citizenship, point of hire, and approved employment contract termination date;
(
2
) Payroll records for each CW-1 worker including the O*NET job classification; wage rate or salary, number of hours worked each week, gross compensation, itemized deductions, and evidence of net payments made and received biweekly; and
(
3
) Direct evidence of payment of wages and overtime, such as receipts for cash payments, cancelled checks or deposit records. Petitioners must provide such documents and records to DHS and DOL at any time, during the retention period specified in paragraph (w)(26)(iii)(B) of this section.
(B) An employer must retain documents and records until the date that is three years after the ending date of the petition validity period.
(27)
Revocation of approval of petition
—(i)
General.
(A) The petitioner shall immediately notify USCIS of any changes in the terms and conditions of employment of a beneficiary which may affect eligibility under this paragraph (w). To notify USCIS of such changes, an amended petition shall be filed when the petitioner continues to employ the beneficiary. If the petitioner no longer employs the beneficiary, the petitioner shall send a letter to the office at which the CW-1 petition was filed explaining the basis on which the specific CW-1 nonimmigrant is no longer employed.
(B) USCIS may revoke a petition at any time, even after the expiration of the petition.
(ii)
Immediate and automatic revocation.
The approval of any petition is immediately and automatically revoked if the petitioner ceases operations, files a written withdrawal of the petition, or the U.S. Department of Labor revokes the temporary labor certification upon which the petition is based.
(iii)
Revocation on notice
—(A)
Grounds for revocation.
USCIS may in its discretion send to the petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the petition in relevant part, for good cause, including, if it finds that:
(
1
) The beneficiary is no longer employed by the petitioner in the capacity specified in the petition;
(
2
) The facts contained in the petition or on the application for a temporary labor certification was not true and correct, inaccurate, fraudulent, or misrepresented a material fact;
(
3
) The petitioner violated terms and conditions of the approved petition;
(
4
) The petitioner violated a requirement of paragraph (w) of this section;
(
5
) The approval of the petition violated paragraph (w) this section or involved gross error;
(
6
) The petitioner failed to maintain the continuous employment of the CW-1 nonimmigrant, failed to pay the nonimmigrant, failed to timely file a semiannual report described in paragraph (w)(26) of this section, committed any other violation of the terms and conditions of employment, or otherwise ceased to operate as a legitimate business;
(
7
) The beneficiary did not apply for admission to the CNMI within 10 days after the beginning of the petition validity period if the petition has been approved for consular processing; or
(
8
) The employer failed to provide a former, current, or prospective CW-1 nonimmigrant, not later than 21 business days after a written request from such individual, with the original (or a certified copy of the original) of all petitions, notices, and other written communication related to the worker (other than sensitive financial or proprietary information of the employer which may be redacted) that has been exchanged between the employer and the Department of Labor, the Department of Homeland Security, or any other Federal agency or department.
(B)
Notice and decision.
The notice of intent to revoke shall state the grounds for the revocation. The petitioner may submit evidence in rebuttal within 30 days of receipt of the notice. USCIS shall consider all relevant evidence presented in deciding whether to revoke the petition in whole or in part. If the petition is revoked in part, the remainder of the petition shall remain approved and a revised approval notice shall be sent to the petitioner with the revocation notice.
(28)
Appeal of a revocation of a petition.
A petition that has been revoked on notice in whole or in part may be appealed under part 103 of this chapter. Automatic revocations may not be appealed.
(29)
Notice to DOL.
USCIS will provide notice to DOL of CW-1 petition revocations.
(Title VI of the Health Professions Educational Assistance Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-484; 90 Stat. 2303); secs. 103 and 214, Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1103 and 1184))
[38 FR 35425, Dec. 28, 1973]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 214.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 214.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 87 FR 4758, Jan. 28, 2022, § 214.2 was amended by adding paragraphs (h)(6)(xi) and (h)(27), effective Jan. 28, 2022, through Jan. 28, 2025.
2. At 87 FR 30375, May 18, 2022, § 214.2 was amended by adding paragraphs (h)(6)(xii) and (h)(28), effective May 18, 2022, through May 18, 2025.
3. At 87 FR 76874, Dec. 15, 2022, § 214.2 was amended by adding row (29) to table 3 to paragraph (h), and by adding paragraphs (h)(6)(xiii) and (h)(29), effective Dec. 15, 2022, through Dec. 15, 2025. At 87 FR 77979, Dec. 21, 2022, paragraph (h)(6)(xiii) was corrected, effective Dec. 21, 2022, through Dec. 15, 2025.
4. At 88 FR 80456, Nov. 17, 2023, § 214.2 was amended by adding rows (30) and (31) to table 3 to paragraph (h), and by adding paragraphs (h)(6)(xiv) and (h)(31), effective Nov. 17, 2023, through Nov. 17, 2026.
5. At 89 FR 95681, Dec. 2, 2024, § 214.2 was amended by adding row (32) to table 3 to paragraph (h), and by adding paragraphs (h)(6)(xv) and (h)(32), effective Dec. 2, 2024, through Dec. 2, 2027.
6. At 89 FR 103196, Dec. 18, 2024, § 214.2 was amended by:
a. Revising paragraph (f)(5)(vi)(A);
b. Removing and reserving paragraph (h)(2)(i)(B);
c. Revising paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(E) and (F) and (h)(4)(i)(B);
d. Revising the definitions of “Specialty occupation” and “United States employer” in paragraph (h)(4)(ii);
e. Revising the heading for paragraph (h)(4)(iii) and paragraph (h)(4)(iii)(A);
f. Adding paragraph (h)(4)(iii)(F);
g. Revising paragraph (h)(4)(iv) introductory text;
h. Adding paragraph (h)(4)(iv)(C);
i. Revising paragraphs (h)(8)(iii)(F)(
2
)(
iv
), (h)(8)(iii)(F)(
4
), and (h)(9)(i);
j. Adding paragraphs (h)(9)(ii)(D) and (h)(9)(iii)(E);
k. Revising paragraph (h)(11)(ii);
l. Removing the period at the end of paragraph (h)(11)(iii)(A)(
6
) and adding “; or” in its place;
m. Adding paragraph (h)(11)(iii)(A)(
7
);
n. Revising paragraphs (h)(14), (h)(19)(iii)(B)(
4
), (h)(19)(iii)(C), and (h)(19)(iv);
o. Adding paragraph (h)(33); and
p. Revising paragraphs (l)(14)(i), (o)(11), and (p)(13).
The amendments are effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 214.2
Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
(f) * * *
(5) * * *
(vi) * * *
(A) The duration of status, and any employment authorization granted under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(3)(i)(B) or (C), of an F-1 student who is the beneficiary of an H-1B petition subject to section 214(g)(1)(A) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(1)(A)) requesting a change of status will be automatically extended until April 1 of the fiscal year for which such H-1B status is being requested or until the validity start date of the approved petition, whichever is earlier, where such petition:
(
1
) Has been timely filed;
(
2
) Requests an H-1B employment start date in the fiscal year for which such H-1B status is being requested consistent with paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I) of this section; and
(
3
) Is nonfrivolous.
(h) * * *
(2) * * *
(i) * * *
(E)
Amended or new petition
—(
1
)
General provisions.
The petitioner must file an amended or new petition, with the appropriate fee and in accordance with the form instructions, to reflect any material changes in the terms and conditions of employment or training or the beneficiary's eligibility as specified in the original approved petition. An amended or new H-1B, H-2A, or H-2B petition must be accompanied by a current or new Department of Labor determination. In the case of an H-1B petition, this requirement includes a current or new certified labor condition application.
(
2
)
Additional H-1B provisions.
The amended or new petition must be properly filed before the material change(s) takes place. The beneficiary is not authorized to work under the materially changed terms and conditions of employment until the new or amended H-1B
petition is approved and takes effect, unless the beneficiary is eligible for H-1B portability pursuant to paragraph (h)(2)(i)(H) of this section. Any change in the place of employment to a geographical area that requires a corresponding labor condition application to be certified to USCIS is considered a material change and requires an amended or new petition to be filed with USCIS before the H-1B worker may begin work at the new place of employment. Provided there are no material changes in the terms and conditions of the H-1B worker's employment, a petitioner does not need to file an amended or new petition when:
(
i
) Moving a beneficiary to a new job location within the same area of intended employment as listed on the labor condition application certified to USCIS in support of the current H-1B petition approval authorizing the H-1B nonimmigrant's employment.
(
ii
) Placing a beneficiary at a short-term placements(s) or assignment(s) at any worksite(s) outside of the area of intended employment for a total of 30 days or less in a 1-year period, or for a total of 60 days or less in a 1-year period where the H-1B beneficiary continues to maintain an office or work station at their permanent worksite, the beneficiary spends a substantial amount of time at the permanent worksite in a 1-year period, and the beneficiary's residence is located in the area of the permanent worksite and not in the area of the short-term worksite(s); or
(
iii
) An H-1B beneficiary is going to a non-worksite location to participate in employee development, will be spending little time at any one location, or when the job is peripatetic in nature, in that the normal duties of the beneficiary's occupation (rather than the nature of the employer's business) requires frequent travel (local or non-local) from location to location. Peripatetic jobs include situations where the job is primarily at one location, but the beneficiary occasionally travels for short periods to other locations on a casual, short-term basis, which can be recurring but not excessive (
i.e.,
not exceeding 5 consecutive workdays for any one visit by a peripatetic worker, or 10 consecutive workdays for any one visit by a worker who spends most work time at one location and travels occasionally to other locations).
(F)
Agents as petitioners.
A United States agent may file a petition in cases involving workers who are traditionally self-employed or workers who use agents to arrange short-term employment on their behalf with numerous employers, and in cases where a foreign employer authorizes the agent to act on its behalf. A United States agent may be: the actual employer of the beneficiary; the representative of both the employer and the beneficiary; or a person or entity authorized by the employer to act for, or in place of, the employer as its agent. The burden is on the agent to explain the terms and conditions of the employment and to provide any required documentation. In questionable cases, a contract between the employers and the beneficiary or beneficiaries may be required.
(
1
) An agent performing the function of an employer must guarantee the wages and other terms and conditions of employment by contractual agreement with the beneficiary or beneficiaries of the petition.
(
2
) A foreign employer who, through a United States agent, files a petition for an H nonimmigrant alien is responsible for complying with all of the employer sanctions provisions of section 274A of the Act and 8 CFR part 274a.
(4) * * *
(i) * * *
(B)
General requirements for petitions involving a specialty occupation
—(
1
)
Labor condition application requirements.
(
i
) Before filing a petition for H-1B classification in a specialty occupation, the petitioner must obtain a certified labor condition application from the Department of Labor in the occupational specialty in which the alien(s) will be employed.
(
ii
) Certification by the Department of Labor of a labor condition application in an occupational classification does not constitute a determination by the agency that the occupation in question is a specialty occupation. USCIS will determine whether the labor condition application involves a specialty occupation as defined in section 214(i)(1) of the Act and properly corresponds with the petition. USCIS will also determine whether all other eligibility requirements have been met, such as whether the alien for whom H-1B classification is sought qualifies to perform services in the specialty occupation as prescribed in section 214(i)(2) of the Act.
(
iii
) If all of the beneficiaries covered by an H-1B labor condition application have not been identified at the time a petition is filed, petitions for newly identified beneficiaries may be filed at any time during the validity of the labor condition application using copies of the same certified labor condition application. Each petition must refer by file number to all previously approved petitions for that labor condition application.
(
iv
) When petitions have been approved for the total number of workers specified in the labor condition application, substitution of aliens against previously approved openings cannot be made. A new labor condition application will be required.
(
v
) If the Secretary of Labor notifies USCIS that the petitioning employer has failed to meet a condition of paragraph (B) of section 212(n)(1) of the Act, has substantially failed to meet a condition of paragraphs (C)
or (D) of section 212(n)(1) of the Act, has willfully failed to meet a condition of paragraph (A) of section 212(n)(1) of the Act, or has misrepresented any material fact in the application, USCIS will not approve petitions filed with respect to that employer under section 204 or 214(c) of the Act for a period of at least 1 year from the date of receipt of such notice.
(
vi
) If the employer's labor condition application is suspended or invalidated by the Department of Labor, USCIS will not suspend or revoke the employer's approved petitions for aliens already employed in specialty occupations if the employer has certified to the Department of Labor that it will comply with the terms of the labor condition application for the duration of the authorized stay of aliens it employs.
(
2
)
Inspections, evaluations, verifications, and compliance reviews.
(
i
) The information provided on an H-1B petition and the evidence submitted in support of such petition may be verified by USCIS through lawful means as determined by USCIS, including telephonic and electronic verifications and on-site inspections. Such verifications and inspections may include, but are not limited to: electronic validation of a petitioner's or third party's basic business information; visits to the petitioner's or third party's facilities; interviews with the petitioner's or third party's officials; reviews of the petitioner's or third party's records related to compliance with immigration laws and regulations; and interviews with any other individuals possessing pertinent information, as determined by USCIS, which may be conducted in the absence of the employer or the employer's representatives; and reviews of any other records that USCIS may lawfully obtain and that it considers pertinent to verify facts related to the adjudication of the H-1B petition, such as facts relating to the petitioner's and beneficiary's H-1B eligibility and compliance. The interviews may be conducted on the employer's property, or as feasible, at a neutral location agreed to by the interviewee and USCIS away from the employer's property. An inspection may be conducted at locations including the petitioner's headquarters, satellite locations, or the location where the beneficiary works, has worked, or will work, including third party worksites, as applicable. USCIS may commence verification or inspection under this paragraph (h)(4)(i)(B)(
2
) for any petition and at any time after an H-1B petition is filed, including any time before or after the final adjudication of the petition. The commencement of such verification and inspection before the final adjudication of the petition does not preclude the ability of USCIS to complete final adjudication of the petition before the verification and inspection are completed.
(
ii
) USCIS conducts on-site inspections or other compliance reviews to verify facts related to the adjudication of the petition and compliance with H-1B petition requirements. If USCIS is unable to verify facts, including due to the failure or refusal of the petitioner or a third party to cooperate in an inspection or other compliance review, then such inability to verify facts, including due to failure or refusal to cooperate, may result in denial or revocation of any H-1B petition for H- 1B workers performing services at the location or locations that are a subject of inspection or compliance review, including any third party worksites.
(
3
)
Third party requirements.
If the beneficiary will be staffed to a third party, meaning they will be contracted to fill a position in a third party's organization and becomes part of that third party's organizational hierarchy by filling a position in that hierarchy (and not merely providing services to the third party), the actual work to be performed by the beneficiary must be in a specialty occupation. When staffed to a third party, it is the requirements of that third party, and not the petitioner, that are most relevant when determining whether the position is a specialty occupation.
(ii) * * *
Specialty occupation
means an occupation which requires theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge in fields of human endeavor including, but not limited to, architecture, engineering, mathematics, physical sciences, social sciences, medicine and health, education, business specialties, accounting, law, theology, and the arts, and which requires the attainment of a bachelor's degree or higher in a directly related specific specialty, or its equivalent, as a minimum for entry into the occupation in the United States. A position is not a specialty occupation if attainment of a general degree, without further specialization, is sufficient to qualify for the position. A position may allow for a range of qualifying degree fields, provided that each of those fields is directly related to the duties of the position.
Directly related
means there is a logical connection between the required degree, or its equivalent, and the duties of the position.
United States employer
means a person, firm, corporation, contractor, or other association, or organization in the United States that:
(
1
) Has a bona fide job offer for the beneficiary to work within the United States, which may include telework, remote work, or other off-site work within the United States;
(
2
) Has a legal presence in the United States and is amenable to service of process in the United States; and
(
3
) Has an Internal Revenue Service Tax identification number.
(
4
) If the H-1B beneficiary possesses a controlling interest in the petitioner, meaning the beneficiary owns more than 50 percent of the petitioner or has majority voting rights in the petitioner, such a beneficiary may perform duties that are directly related to owning and directing the petitioner's business as long as the beneficiary will perform specialty occupation duties a majority of the time, consistent with the terms of the H-1B petition.
(iii)
General H-1B requirements
—(A)
Criteria for specialty occupation position.
A position does not meet the definition of specialty occupation in paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section unless it also satisfies at least one of the following criteria at paragraphs (h)(4)(iii)(A)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section:
(
1
) A U.S. baccalaureate or higher degree in a directly related specific specialty, or its equivalent, is normally the minimum requirement for entry into the particular occupation;
(
2
) A U.S. baccalaureate or higher degree in a directly related specific specialty, or its equivalent, is normally required to perform job duties in parallel positions among similar organizations in the employer's industry in the United States;
(
3
) The employer, or third party if the beneficiary will be staffed to that third party, normally requires a U.S. baccalaureate or higher degree in a directly related specific specialty, or its equivalent, to perform the job duties of the position; or
(
4
) The specific duties of the proffered position are so specialized, complex, or unique that the knowledge required to perform them is normally associated with the attainment of a U.S. baccalaureate or higher degree in a directly related specific specialty, or its equivalent.
(
5
) For purposes of the criteria at paragraphs (h)(4)(iii)(A)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section, normally means conforming to a type, standard, or regular pattern, and is characterized by that which is considered usual, typical, common, or routine. Normally does not mean always.
(F)
Bona fide position in a specialty occupation.
At the time of filing, the petitioner must establish that it has a bona fide position in a specialty occupation available for the beneficiary as of the start date of the validity period as requested on the petition. A petitioner is not required to establish specific day-to-day assignments for the entire time requested in the petition.
(iv)
General documentary requirements for H-1B classification in a specialty occupation.
Except as specified in paragraph (h)(4)(iv)(C) of this section, an H-1B petition involving a specialty occupation must be accompanied by:
(C) In accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(b) and paragraph (h)(9) of this section, USCIS may request evidence such as contracts, work orders, or other similar evidence between all parties in a contractual relationship showing the bona fide nature of the beneficiary's position and the minimum educational requirements to perform the duties.
(8) * * *
(iii) * * *
(F) * * *
(
2
) * * *
(
iv
) The nonprofit entity has entered into a formal written affiliation agreement with an institution of higher education that establishes an active working relationship between the nonprofit entity and the institution of higher education for the purposes of research or education, and a fundamental activity of the nonprofit entity is to directly contribute to the research or education mission of the institution of higher education. A nonprofit entity may engage in more than one fundamental activity.
(
4
) An H-1B beneficiary who is not directly employed by a qualifying institution, organization, or entity identified in section 214(g)(5)(A) or (B) of the Act will qualify for an exemption under such section if the H-1B beneficiary will spend at least half of their work time performing job duties at a qualifying institution, organization, or entity and those job duties directly further an activity that supports or advances one of the fundamental purposes, missions, objectives, or functions of the qualifying institution, organization, or entity, namely, either higher education, nonprofit research, or government research. Work performed “at” the qualifying institution may include work performed in the United States through telework, remote work, or other off-site work. When considering whether a position is cap-exempt, USCIS will focus on the job
duties to be performed, rather than where the duties are physically performed.
(9) * * *
(i)
Approval.
(A) USCIS will consider all the evidence submitted and any other evidence independently required to assist in adjudication. USCIS will notify the petitioner of the approval of the petition on a Notice of Action. The approval notice will include the beneficiary's (or beneficiaries') name(s) and classification and the petition's period of validity. A petition for more than one beneficiary and/or multiple services may be approved in whole or in part. The approval notice will cover only those beneficiaries approved for classification under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act.
(B) Where an H-1B petition is approved for less time than requested on the petition, the approval notice will provide or be accompanied by a brief explanation for the validity period granted.
(ii) * * *
(D)(
1
) If an H-1B petition is adjudicated and deemed approvable after the initially requested validity period end-date or end-date for which eligibility is established, the officer may issue a request for evidence (RFE) asking the petitioner whether they want to update the requested dates of employment. Factors that inform whether USCIS issues an RFE could include, but would not be limited to: additional petitions filed or approved on the beneficiary's behalf, or the beneficiary's eligibility for additional time in H-1B status. If the new requested period exceeds the validity period of the labor condition application already submitted with the H-1B petition, the petitioner must submit a certified labor condition application with a new validity period that properly corresponds to the new requested validity period on the petition and an updated prevailing or proffered wage, if applicable, except that the petitioner may not reduce the proffered wage from that originally indicated in their petition. This labor condition application may be certified after the date the H-1B petition was filed with USCIS. The request for new dates of employment and submission of a labor condition application corresponding with the new dates of employment, absent other changes, will not be considered a material change. An increase to the proffered wage will not be considered a material change, as long as there are no other material changes to the position.
(
2
) If USCIS does not issue an RFE concerning the requested dates of employment, if the petitioner does not respond, or the RFE response does not support new dates of employment, the petition will be approved, if otherwise approvable, for the originally requested period or until the end-date eligibility has been established, as appropriate. However, the petition will not be forwarded to the Department of State nor will any accompanying request for a change of status, an extension of stay, or amendment of stay, be granted.
(iii) * * *
(E)
H-1B petition for certain beneficiary-owned entities.
The initial approval of a petition filed by a United States employer in which the H-1B beneficiary possesses a controlling interest in the petitioning organization or entity, meaning the beneficiary owns more than 50 percent of the petitioner or has majority voting rights in the petitioner, will be limited to a validity period of up to 18 months. The first extension (including an amended petition with a request for an extension of stay) of such a petition will also be limited to a validity period of up to 18 months.
(11) * * *
(ii)
Immediate and automatic revocation.
The approval of any petition is immediately and automatically revoked if the petitioner goes out of business, files a written withdrawal of the petition, or the Department of Labor revokes the labor certification upon which the petition is based. The approval of an H-1B petition is also immediately and automatically revoked upon notification from the H-1B petitioner that the beneficiary is no longer employed.
(iii) * * *
(A) * * *
(
7
) The petitioner failed to timely file an amended petition notifying USCIS of a material change or otherwise failed to comply with the material change reporting requirements in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(E) of this section.
(14)
Extension of visa petition validity.
The petitioner must file a request for a petition extension on the Form I-129 to extend the validity of the original petition under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act. A request for a petition extension generally may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
(19) * * *
(iii) * * *
(B) * * *
(
4
) The nonprofit entity has entered into a formal written affiliation agreement with an institution of higher education that establishes an active working relationship between the nonprofit entity and the institution of higher education for the purposes of
research or education, and a fundamental activity of the nonprofit entity is to directly contribute to the research or education mission of the institution of higher education. A nonprofit entity may engage in more than one fundamental activity;
(C)
A nonprofit research organization or government research organization.
When a fundamental activity of a nonprofit organization is engaging in basic research and/or applied research, that organization is a nonprofit research organization. When a fundamental activity of a governmental organization is the performance or promotion of basic research and/or applied research, that organization is a government research organization. A governmental research organization may be a Federal, State, or local entity. A nonprofit research organization or governmental research organization may perform or promote more than one fundamental activity. Basic research is general research to gain more comprehensive knowledge or understanding of the subject under study, without specific applications in mind. Basic research is also research that advances scientific knowledge but does not have specific immediate commercial objectives although it may be in fields of present or potential commercial interest. Applied research is research to gain knowledge or understanding to determine the means by which a specific, recognized need may be met. Applied research includes investigations oriented to discovering new scientific knowledge that has specific commercial objectives with respect to products, processes, or services. Both basic research and applied research may include research and investigation in the sciences, social sciences, or humanities and may include designing, analyzing, and directing the research of others if on an ongoing basis and throughout the research cycle;
(iv)
Nonprofit or tax exempt organizations.
For purposes of paragraphs (h)(19)(iii)(B) and (C) of this section, a nonprofit organization or entity must be determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be a tax exempt organization under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, section 501(c)(3), (c)(4), or (c)(6), 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3), (c)(4), or (c)(6).
(33)
Severability.
The Department intends that should any of the revisions effective on January 17, 2025, to provisions in paragraphs (f)(5), (h)(2), (4) through (6), (8), (9), (11), (14), and (19), (l)(14), (o)(11), and (p)(13) of this section or to the provisions in 8 CFR 214.1(c)(1) and (4) through (7) be held to be invalid or unenforceable by their terms or as applied to any person or circumstance they should nevertheless be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision(s) permitted by law, unless any such provision is held to be wholly invalid and unenforceable, in which event the provision(s) should be severed from the remainder of the provisions and the holding should not affect the other provisions or the application of those other provisions to persons not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances.
(l) * * *
(14) * * *
(i)
Individual petition.
The petitioner must file a petition extension on Form I-129 to extend an individual petition under section 101(a)(15)(L) of the Act. A petition extension generally may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
(o) * * *
(11)
Extension of visa petition validity.
The petitioner must file a request to extend the validity of the original petition under section 101(a)(15)(O) of the Act on the form prescribed by USCIS, in order to continue or complete the same activities or events specified in the original petition. A petition extension generally may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
(p) * * *
(13)
Extension of visa petition validity.
The petitioner must file a request to extend the validity of the original petition under section 101(a)(15)(P) of the Act on the form prescribed by USCIS in order to continue or complete the same activity or event specified in the original petition. A petition extension generally may be filed only if the validity of the original petition has not expired.
7. At 89 FR 103327, Dec. 18, 2024, § 214.2 was amended by:
a. Revising paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D);
b. Redesignating paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I) as paragraph (h)(2)(i)(J) and adding a new paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I);
c. Revising paragraphs (h)(2)(ii) and (iii);
d. Removing paragraph (h)(5)(i)(F);
e. Removing and reserving paragraph (h)(5)(iii)(B);
f. Revising and republishing paragraph (h)(5)(vi);
g. Revising paragraphs (h)(5)(viii)(B) and (C) and adding (D);
h. Revising paragraphs (h)(5)(ix) and (xi);
i. Removing paragraph (h)(5)(xii);
j. Revising and republishing paragraph (h)(6)(i);
k. Revising paragraph (h)(6)(vii);
l. Adding paragraph (h)(10)(iv);
m. Adding paragraph (h)(11)(iv);
n. Revising paragraphs (h)(13)(i), (iv), and (v);
o. Revising paragraph (h)(16)(ii) and adding (h)(16)(iii);
p. Revising paragraph (h)(20); and
q. Adding paragraph (h)(30).
The amendments are effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 214.2
Special requirements for admission, extension, and maintenance of status.
(h) * * *
(2) * * *
(i) * * *
(D)
Change of employers.
If the alien is in the United States and seeks to change employers, the prospective new employer must file a petition for a nonimmigrant worker requesting classification and an extension of the alien's stay in the United States. If the new petition is approved, the extension of stay may be granted for the validity of the approved petition. The validity of the petition and the alien's extension of stay must conform to the limits on the alien's temporary stay that are prescribed in paragraph (h)(13) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I) of this section, 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(21), or section 214(n) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1184(n), the alien is not authorized to begin the employment with the new petitioner until the petition is approved. An H-1C nonimmigrant alien may not change employers.
(I)
H-2A and H-2B portability.
An eligible H-2A or H-2B nonimmigrant is authorized to start new employment upon the proper filing, in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(a), of a nonfrivolous H-2A or H-2B petition on behalf of such alien requesting the same classification that the nonimmigrant alien currently holds, or as of the requested start date, whichever is later.
(
1
)
Eligible H-2A or H-2B nonimmigrant.
For H-2A and H-2B portability purposes, an eligible H-2A or H-2B nonimmigrant is defined as an alien:
(
i
) Who has been lawfully admitted into the United States in, or otherwise provided, H-2A or H-2B nonimmigrant status;
(
ii
) On whose behalf a nonfrivolous H-2A or H-2B petition for new employment has been properly filed, including a petition for new employment with the same employer, with a request to amend or extend the H-2A or H-2B nonimmigrant's stay in the same classification that the nonimmigrant currently holds, before the H-2A or H-2B nonimmigrant's period of stay authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security expires; and
(
iii
) Who has not been employed without authorization in the United States from the time of last admission through the filing of the petition for new employment.
(
2
)
Length of employment.
Employment authorized under this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I) automatically ceases upon the adjudication or withdrawal of the H-2A or H-2B petition described in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section.
(
3
)
Application of H-2A or H-2B program requirements during the pendency of the petition.
The petitioner and any employer is required to comply with all H-2A or H-2B program requirements, as applicable under the relevant program, with respect to an alien who has commenced new employment with that petitioner or employer based on a properly filed nonfrivolous petition and while that petition is pending, even if the petition is subsequently denied or withdrawn. During the pendency of the petition, the alien will not be considered to have been in a period of unauthorized stay or employed in the United States without authorization solely on the basis of employment pursuant to the new petition, even if the petition is subsequently denied or withdrawn.
(
4
)
Successive H-2A or H-2B portability petitions.
(
i
) An alien maintaining authorization for employment under this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I), whose status, as indicated on the Arrival-Departure Record (Form I-94), has expired, will be considered to be in a period of stay authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security for purposes of paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section. If otherwise eligible under this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I), such alien may begin working in a subsequent position upon the filing of another H-2A or H-2B petition in the same classification that the nonimmigrant alien currently holds or from the requested start date, whichever is later, notwithstanding that the previous H-2A or H-2B petition upon which employment is authorized under this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(I) remains pending and regardless of whether the validity period of an approved H-2A or H-2B petition filed on the alien's behalf expired during such pendency.
(
ii
) A request to amend the petition or for an extension of stay in any successive H-2A or H-2B portability petition requesting the same classification that the nonimmigrant alien currently holds cannot be approved if a request to amend the petition or for an extension of stay in any preceding H-2A or H-2B portability petition in the succession is denied, unless the beneficiary's previously approved period of H-2A or H-2B status remains valid.
(
iii
) Denial of a successive portability petition does not affect the ability of the H-2A or H-2B beneficiary to continue or resume working in accordance with the terms of an H-2A or H-2B petition previously approved on behalf of the beneficiary if that petition approval remains valid, and the beneficiary has either maintained H-2A or H-2B status, as appropriate, or been in a period of authorized stay and has not been employed in the United States without authorization.
(ii)
Multiple beneficiaries.
Up to 25 named beneficiaries may be included in an H-1C, H-2A, H-2B, or H-3 petition if the beneficiaries will be performing the same service, or receiving the same training, for the same period, and in the same location. If more than 25 named beneficiaries are being petitioned for, an additional petition is required.
(iii)
Naming beneficiaries.
H-1B, H-1C, and H-3 petitions must include the name of each beneficiary. Except as provided in this paragraph (h), all H-2A and H-2B petitions must include the name of each beneficiary who is currently in the United States, but need not name any beneficiary who is not currently in the United States. Unnamed beneficiaries must be shown on the petition by total number. USCIS may require the petitioner to name H-2B beneficiaries where the name is needed to establish eligibility for H-2B nonimmigrant status. If all of the beneficiaries covered by an H-2A or H-2B temporary labor certification have not been identified at the time a petition is filed, multiple petitions for subsequent beneficiaries may be filed at different times but must include a copy of the same temporary labor certification. Each petition must reference all previously filed petitions associated with that temporary labor certification.
(5) * * *
(vi)
Petitioner consent and notification requirements
—(A)
Consent.
In filing an H-2A petition, a petitioner and each employer consents to allow Government access to all sites where the labor is being or will be performed and where workers are or will be housed and agrees to fully cooperate with any compliance review, evaluation, verification, or inspection conducted by USCIS, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, review of the employer's records related to the compliance with immigration laws and regulations, and interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, which may be conducted in the absence of the employer or the employer's representatives, as a condition for the approval of the petition. The interviews may be conducted on the employer's property, or as feasible, at a neutral location agreed to by the employee and USCIS away from the employer's property. If USCIS is unable to verify facts, including due to the failure or refusal of the petitioner or employer to cooperate in an inspection or other compliance review, then such inability to verify facts, including due to failure or refusal to cooperate, may result in denial or revocation of any H-2A petition for H-2A workers performing services at the location or locations that are a subject of inspection or compliance review.
(B)
Agreements.
The petitioner agrees to the following requirements:
(
1
) To notify DHS, within 2 workdays, and beginning on a date and in a manner specified in a notice published in the
Federal Register
if:
(
i
) An H-2A worker does not report for work within 5 workdays of the employment start date on the H-2A petition or within 5 workdays of the start date established by their employer, whichever is later;
(
ii
) The agricultural labor or services for which H-2A workers were hired is completed more than 30 days earlier than the employment end date stated on the H-2A petition; or
(
iii
) The H-2A worker does not report for work for a period of 5 consecutive workdays without the consent of the employer or is terminated prior to the completion of agricultural labor or services for which they were hired.
(
2
) To retain evidence of such notification and make it available for inspection by DHS officers for a 1-year period beginning on the date of the notification. To retain evidence of a different employment start date if it is changed from that on the petition by the employer and make it available for inspection by DHS officers for the 1-year period beginning on the newly-established employment start date.
(
3
) To pay $10 in liquidated damages for each instance where the employer cannot demonstrate that it has complied with the notification requirements, unless, in the case of an untimely notification, the employer demonstrates with such notification that good cause existed for the untimely notification, and DHS, in its discretion, waives the liquidated damages amount.
(C)
Process.
If DHS has determined that the petitioner has violated the notification requirements in paragraph (h)(5)(vi)(B)(1) of this section and has not received the required notification, the petitioner will be given written notice and 30 days to reply before being given written notice of the assessment of liquidated damages.
(D)
Failure to pay liquidated damages.
If liquidated damages are not paid within 10 days of assessment, an H-2A petition may not be processed for that petitioner or any joint
employer shown on the petition until such damages are paid.
(vii)
Validity.
An approved H-2A petition is valid through the expiration of the relating certification for the purpose of allowing a beneficiary to seek issuance of an H-2A nonimmigrant visa, admission or an extension of stay for the purpose of engaging in the specific certified employment.
(viii) * * *
(B)
Period of admission.
An alien admissible as an H-2A nonimmigrant will be admitted for the period of the approved petition. Such alien will be admitted for an additional period of up to 10 days before the beginning of the approved period for the purpose of travel to the worksite, and up to 30 days subject to the 3-year limitation in paragraph (h)(5)(viii)(C) of this section following the expiration of the H-2A petition for the purpose of departure or to seek an extension based on a subsequent offer of employment. Unless authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12, the alien may not work except during the validity period of the petition.
(C)
Limits on an individual's stay.
Except as provided in paragraph (h)(5)(viii)(B) of this section, an alien's stay as an H-2A nonimmigrant is limited by the period of time stated in an approved petition. An alien may remain longer to engage in other qualifying temporary agricultural employment by obtaining an extension of stay. However, an individual who has held H-2A or H-2B status for a total of 3 years may not again be granted H-2A status until such time as they remain outside the United States for an uninterrupted period of at least 60 days. Eligibility under this paragraph (h)(5)(viii)(C) will be determined during adjudication of a request for admission, change of status or extension. An alien found eligible for a shorter period of H-2A status than that indicated by the petition due to the application of this paragraph (h)(5)(viii)(C) will only be admitted for that shorter period.
(D)
Period of absence.
An absence from the United States for an uninterrupted period of at least 60 days at any time will result in the alien becoming eligible for a new 3-year maximum period of H-2 stay. To qualify, the petitioner must provide evidence documenting the alien's relevant absence(s) from the United States, such as, but not limited to, arrival and departure records, copies of tax returns, and records of employment abroad.
(ix)
Substitution of beneficiaries after admission.
An H-2A petition may be filed to replace H-2A workers whose employment was terminated earlier than the end date stated on the H-2A petition and before the completion of work; who do not report for work within 5 workdays of the employment start date on the H-2A petition or within 5 workdays of the start date established by their employer, whichever is later; or who do not report for work for a period of 5 consecutive workdays without the consent of the employer. The petition must be filed with a copy of the temporary labor certification, a copy of the approval notice covering the workers for which replacements are sought, and other evidence required by paragraph (h)(5)(i)(D) of this section. It must also be filed with a statement giving the name, date and country of birth, termination date, and the reason for termination, if applicable, for such worker and the date that USCIS was notified that the worker was terminated or did not report for work for a period of 5 consecutive workdays without the consent of the employer. A petition for a replacement will not be approved where the requirements of paragraph (h)(5)(vi) of this section have not been met. A petition for replacements does not constitute the notification required by paragraph (h)(5)(vi)(B)(1) of this section.
(xi)
Treatment of petitions and alien beneficiaries upon a determination that fees were collected from alien beneficiaries
—(A)
Denial or revocation of petition for prohibited fees.
As a condition of approval of an H-2A petition, no job placement fee, fee or penalty for breach of contract, or other fee, penalty, or compensation (either direct or indirect), related to the H-2A employment (collectively, “prohibited fees”) may be collected at any time from a beneficiary of an H-2A petition or any person acting on the beneficiary's behalf by a petitioner, a petitioner's employee, agent, attorney, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service, or by any employer (if different from the petitioner) or any joint employer, including a member employer if the petitioner is an association of U.S. agricultural producers. The term “similar employment service” refers to any person or entity that recruits or solicits prospective beneficiaries of the H-2A petition. The passing of a cost to the beneficiary that, by statute or applicable regulations, is the responsibility of the petitioner, constitutes the collection of a prohibited fee. This provision does not prohibit petitioners (including their employees), employers or any joint employers, agents, attorneys, facilitators, recruiters, or similar employment services from receiving reimbursement from the beneficiary for costs that are the responsibility and primarily for the benefit of the worker, such as government-required passport fees. This provision does not prohibit employers from allowing workers to initially incur fees or expenses that the employers are required to subsequently reimburse, where such arrangement is specifically permitted by, and performed in compliance with statute or regulations governing the H-2A program.
(
1
) If USCIS determines that the petitioner or any of its employees, whether before or
after the filing of the H-2A petition, has collected, or entered into an agreement to collect, a prohibited fee related to the H-2A employment, USCIS will deny or revoke the H-2A petition filed on or after January 17, 2025 on notice unless the petitioner demonstrates through clear and convincing evidence that: the petitioner made ongoing, good faith, reasonable efforts to prevent and learn of the prohibited fee collection or agreement by its employees throughout the recruitment, hiring, and employment process; extraordinary circumstances beyond the petitioner's control resulted in its failure to prevent collection or entry into agreement for collection of prohibited fees; the petitioner took immediate remedial action as soon as it became aware of the payment of or agreement to pay the prohibited fee; and the petitioner fully reimbursed all affected beneficiaries or, only if such beneficiaries cannot be located or are deceased, it fully reimbursed the beneficiaries' designees.
(
2
) If USCIS determines that the beneficiary has paid or agreed to pay a prohibited fee related to the H-2A employment, whether before or after the filing of the H-2A petition, to any agent, attorney, employer, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service, or any joint employer, including a member employer if the petitioner is an association of U.S. agricultural producers, USCIS will deny or revoke the H-2A petition filed on or after January 17, 2025 on notice unless the petitioner demonstrates to USCIS through clear and convincing evidence that: the petitioner made ongoing, good faith, reasonable efforts to prevent and learn of the prohibited fee collection or agreement by such parties throughout the recruitment, hiring, and employment process; the petitioner took immediate remedial action as soon as it became aware of the payment of or agreement to pay the prohibited fee; and that all affected beneficiaries, or their designees only if such beneficiaries cannot be located or are deceased, have been fully reimbursed. A written contract between the petitioner and the agent, attorney, facilitator, recruiter, similar employment service, or member employer stating that such fees were prohibited will not, by itself, be sufficient to meet this standard of proof.
(
3
) For purposes of paragraph (h)(5)(xi) of this section, a designee must be an individual or entity for whom the beneficiary has provided the petitioner or its successor in interest prior written authorization to receive such reimbursement, as long as the petitioner or its successor in interest, or its agent, employer, or any joint employer, attorney, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service would not act as such designee or derive any financial benefit, either directly or indirectly, from the reimbursement.
(B)
One-year denial period of subsequent H-2A petitions.
USCIS will deny any H-2A petition filed by the same petitioner or a successor in interest within 1 year after the decision denying or revoking on notice an H-2B or H-2A petition on the basis of paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) or (h)(5)(xi)(A), respectively, of this section, provided that the denied or revoked petition was filed on or after January 17, 2025. In addition, USCIS will deny any H-2A petition filed by the same petitioner or successor in interest within 1 year after withdrawal of an H-2A or H-2B petition filed on or after January 17, 2025, that was withdrawn following USCIS issuance of a request for evidence or notice of intent to deny or revoke the petition on the basis of paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(A) or (h)(6)(i)(B), respectively, of this section.
(C)
Reimbursement as condition of approval of future H-2A petitions
—(
1
)
Additional 3-year denial period of subsequent H-2A petitions.
For an additional 3 years after the 1-year period described in paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(B) of this section, USCIS will deny any H-2A petition filed by the same petitioner or successor in interest, unless the petitioner or successor in interest demonstrates to USCIS that the petitioner, successor in interest, or the petitioner's or successor in interest's agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service, or any joint employer, including a member employer if the petitioner is an association of U.S. agricultural producers, reimbursed in full each beneficiary, or the beneficiary's designee only if such beneficiary cannot be located or is deceased, of the denied or revoked petition from whom a prohibited fee was collected. USCIS will deny H-2A petitions under this provision based on the denial or revocation decision(s) issued pursuant to paragraph (h)(5)(xi)(A) or (h)(6)(i)(B) of this section on a prior petition filed on or after January 17, 2025.
(
2
)
Successor in interest.
For the purposes of paragraphs (h)(5)(xi)(B) and (C) of this section, successor in interest means an employer that is controlling and carrying on the business of a previous employer regardless of whether such successor in interest has succeeded to all of the rights and liabilities of the predecessor entity. The following factors may be considered by USCIS in determining whether an employer is a successor in interest; no one factor is dispositive, but all of the circumstances will be considered as a whole:
(
i
) Substantial continuity of the same business operations;
(
ii
) Use of the same facilities;
(
iii
) Substantial continuity of the work force;
(
iv
) Similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(
v
) Similarity of supervisory personnel;
(
vi
) Whether the former management or owner retains a direct or indirect interest in the new enterprise;
(
vii
) Similarity in machinery, equipment, production methods, or assets required to conduct business;
(
viii
) Similarity of products and services;
(
ix
) Familial or close personal relationships between predecessor and successor owners of the entity; and
(
x
) Use of the same or related remittance sources for business payments.
(6) * * *
(i)
Petition
—(A)
H-2B nonagricultural temporary worker.
An H-2B nonagricultural temporary worker is an alien who is coming temporarily to the United States to perform temporary services or labor without displacing qualified United States workers available to perform such services or labor and whose employment is not adversely affecting the wages and working conditions of United States workers.
(B)
Denial or revocation of petition for prohibited fees.
As a condition of approval of an H-2B petition, no job placement fee, fee or penalty for breach of contract, or other fee, penalty, or compensation (either direct or indirect), related to the H-2B employment (collectively, “prohibited fees”) may be collected at any time from a beneficiary of an H-2B petition or any person acting on the beneficiary's behalf by a petitioner, a petitioner's employee, agent, attorney, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service, or any employer (if different from the petitioner). The term “similar employment service” refers to any person or entity that recruits or solicits prospective beneficiaries of the H-2B petition. The passing of a cost to the beneficiary that, by statute or applicable regulations is the responsibility of the petitioner, constitutes the collection of a prohibited fee. This provision does not prohibit petitioners (including their employees), employers, agents, attorneys, facilitators, recruiters, or similar employment services from receiving reimbursement from the beneficiary for costs that are the responsibility and primarily for the benefit of the worker, such as government-required passport fees. This provision does not prohibit employers from allowing workers to initially incur fees or expenses that the employers are required to subsequently reimburse, where such arrangement is specifically permitted by, and performed in compliance with, statute or regulations governing the H-2B program.
(
1
) If USCIS determines that the petitioner or any of its employees, whether before or after the filing of the H-2B petition, has collected or entered into an agreement to collect a prohibited fee related to the H-2B employment, USCIS will deny or revoke the H-2B petition filed on or after January 17, 2025 on notice unless the petitioner demonstrates through clear and convincing evidence that: the petitioner made ongoing, good faith, reasonable efforts to prevent and learn of the prohibited fee collection or agreement throughout the recruitment, hiring, and employment process; extraordinary circumstances beyond the petitioner's control resulted in its failure to prevent collection or entry into agreement for collection of prohibited fees; the petitioner took immediate remedial action as soon as it became aware of the payment of or agreement to pay the prohibited fee; and the petitioner fully reimbursed all affected beneficiaries or, only if such beneficiaries cannot be located or are deceased, it fully reimbursed their designees.
(
2
) If USCIS determines that the beneficiary has paid or agreed to pay any employer, agent, attorney, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service a prohibited fee related to the H-2B employment, whether before or after the filing of the H-2B petition, USCIS will deny or revoke the H-2B petition filed on or after January 17, 2025 on notice unless the petitioner demonstrates to USCIS through clear and convincing evidence that: the petitioner made ongoing, good faith, reasonable efforts to prevent and learn of the prohibited fee(s) collection or agreement by such parties throughout the recruitment, hiring, and employment process; the petitioner took immediate remedial action as soon as it became aware of the payment of the prohibited fee or agreement; and all affected beneficiaries, or their designees only if such beneficiaries cannot be located or are deceased, have been fully reimbursed. A written contract between the petitioner and the facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service stating that such fees were prohibited will not, by itself, be sufficient to meet this standard of proof.
(
3
) For purposes of paragraph (h)(6)(i) of this section, a designee must be an individual or entity for whom the beneficiary has provided the petitioner or its successor in interest prior written authorization to receive such reimbursement, as long as the petitioner or its successor in interest, or its agent, employer, attorney, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service would not act as such designee or derive any financial benefit, either directly or indirectly, from the reimbursement.
(C)
One-year denial period of subsequent H-2B petitions.
USCIS will deny any H-2B petition filed by the same petitioner or a successor in interest within 1 year after the decision denying or revoking on notice an H-2B or H-2A petition on the basis of paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) or (h)(5)(xi)(A), respectively, of this section, provided that the denied or revoked petition was filed on or after January 17, 2025. In addition, USCIS will deny any H-2B petition filed by the same petitioner or successor in interest within 1 year after withdrawal of an H-2B or H-2A petition filed
on or after January 17, 2025, that was withdrawn following USCIS issuance of a request for evidence or notice of intent to deny or revoke the petition on the basis of paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) or (h)(5)(xi)(A), respectively, of this section.
(D)
Reimbursement as condition of approval of future H-2B petitions
—(
1
)
Additional 3-year denial period of subsequent H-2B petitions.
For an additional 3 years after the 1-year period described in paragraph (h)(6)(i)(C) of this section, USCIS will deny any H-2B petition filed by the same petitioner or successor in interest, unless the petitioner or successor in interest demonstrates to USCIS that the petitioner or successor in interest, or the petitioner's or successor in interest's agent, facilitator, recruiter, or similar employment service, reimbursed in full each beneficiary, or the beneficiary's designee only if such beneficiary cannot be located or is deceased, of the denied or revoked petition from whom a prohibited fee was collected. USCIS will deny H-2B petitions under this provision based on the denial or revocation decision(s) issued pursuant to paragraph (h)(6)(i)(B) or (h)(5)(xi)(A) of this section on a prior petition filed on or after January 17, 2025.
(
2
)
Successor in interest.
For the purposes of paragraphs (h)(6)(i)(C) and (D) of this section, successor in interest means an employer that is controlling and carrying on the business of a previous employer regardless of whether such successor in interest has succeeded to all of the rights and liabilities of the predecessor entity. The following factors may be considered by USCIS in determining whether an employer is a successor in interest; no one factor is dispositive, but all of the circumstances will be considered as a whole:
(
i
) Substantial continuity of the same business operations;
(
ii
) Use of the same facilities;
(
iii
) Substantial continuity of the work force;
(
iv
) Similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(
v
) Similarity of supervisory personnel;
(
vi
) Whether the former management or owner retains a direct or indirect interest in the new enterprise;
(
vii
) Similarity in machinery, equipment, production methods, or assets required to conduct business;
(
viii
) Similarity of products and services;
(
ix
) Familial or close personal relationships between predecessor and successor owners of the entity; and
(
x
) Use of the same or related remittance sources for business payments.
(E) [Reserved]
(F)
Petitioner agreements and notification requirements
—(
1
)
Agreements.
The petitioner must notify DHS, within 2 workdays, and beginning on a date and in a manner specified in a notice published in the
Federal Register
if: An H-2B worker does not report for work within 5 workdays after the employment start date stated on the petition; the nonagricultural labor or services for which H-2B workers were hired were completed more than 30 days early; or an H-2B worker does not report for work for a period of 5 consecutive workdays without the consent of the employer or is terminated prior to the completion of the nonagricultural labor or services for which they were hired. The petitioner must also retain evidence of such notification and make it available for inspection by DHS officers for a 1-year period beginning on the date of the notification.
(
2
)
Consent.
In filing an H-2B petition, the petitioner and each employer (if different from the petitioner) consent to allow Government access to all sites where the labor is being or will be performed and agrees to fully cooperate with any compliance review, evaluation, verification, or inspection conducted by USCIS, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, review of the employer's records related to the compliance with immigration laws and regulations, and interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, which may be conducted in the absence of the employer or the employer's representatives, as a condition for the approval of the petition. The interviews may be conducted on the employer's property, or as feasible, at a neutral location agreed to by the employee and USCIS away from the employer's property. If USCIS is unable to verify facts, including due to the failure or refusal of the petitioner or employer to cooperate in an inspection or other compliance review, then such inability to verify facts, including due to failure or refusal to cooperate, may result in denial or revocation of any H-2B petition for H-2B workers performing services at the location or locations that are a subject of inspection or compliance review.
(vii)
Admission
—(A)
Period of admission.
An alien admissible as an H-2B nonimmigrant will be admitted for the period of the approved petition. Such alien will be admitted for an additional period of up to 10 days before the beginning of the approved period for the purpose of travel to the worksite, and up to 30 days subject to the 3-year limitation in paragraph (h)(6)(vii)(B) of this section following the expiration of the H-2B petition for the purpose of departure or to seek an extension based on a subsequent offer of employment. Unless authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12, the alien may not work except during the validity period of the petition.
(B)
Limits on an individual's stay.
Except as provided in paragraph (h)(6)(vii)(A) of this
section, an alien's stay as an H-2B nonimmigrant is limited by the period of time stated in an approved petition. An alien may remain longer to engage in other qualifying temporary nonagricultural employment by obtaining an extension of stay. However, an individual who has held H-2A or H-2B status for a total of 3 years may not again be granted H-2B status until such time as they remain outside the United States for an uninterrupted period of at least 60 days. Eligibility under this paragraph (h)(6)(vii)(B) will be determined during adjudication of a request for admission, change of status or extension of stay. An alien found eligible for a shorter period of H-2B status than that indicated by the petition due to the application of this paragraph (h)(6)(vii)(B) will only be admitted for that shorter period.
(C)
Period of absence.
An absence from the United States for an uninterrupted period of at least 60 days at any time will result in the alien becoming eligible for a new 3-year maximum period of H-2 stay. The limitation in paragraph (h)(6)(vii)(B) of this section will not apply to H-2B aliens who did not reside continually in the United States and whose employment in the United States was seasonal or intermittent or was for an aggregate of 6 months or less per year. In addition, the limitation in paragraph (h)(6)(vii)(B) of this section will not apply to aliens who reside abroad and regularly commute to the United States to engage in part-time employment. To qualify, the petitioner must provide evidence documenting the alien's relevant absence(s) from the United States, such as, but not limited to, arrival and departure records, copies of tax returns, and records of employment abroad.
(D)
Traded professional H-2B athletes.
In the case of a professional H-2B athlete who is traded from one organization to another organization, employment authorization for the player will automatically continue for a period of 30 days after the player's acquisition by the new organization, within which time the new organization is expected to file a new application or petition for H-2B nonimmigrant classification. If a new application or petition is not filed within 30 days, employment authorization will cease. If a new application or petition is filed within 30 days, the professional athlete will be deemed to be in valid H-2B status, and employment will continue to be authorized, until the petition is adjudicated. If the new petition is denied, employment authorization will cease.
(10) * * *
(iv)
H-2A and H-2B violators.
(A) USCIS will deny any H-2A or H-2B petition filed by a petitioner, or the successor in interest of a petitioner as defined in paragraphs (h)(5)(xi)(C)(
2
) and (h)(6)(i)(D)(
2
) of this section, that has been the subject of one or more of the following actions:
(
1
) A final administrative determination by the Secretary of Labor under 20 CFR part 655, subpart A or B, or 29 CFR part 501 or 503 debarring the petitioner from filing or receiving a future labor certification, or a final administrative determination by the Governor of Guam debarring the petitioner from issuance of future labor certifications under applicable Guam regulations and rules, if the petition is filed on or after January 17, 2025 and during the debarment period, or if the debarment occurs during the pendency of the petition filed on or after January 17, 2025, and the final administrative determination debarring the petitioner is made on or after January 17, 2025; or
(
2
) A final USCIS denial or revocation decision issued during the pendency of the petition or within 3 years prior to filing the petition that includes a finding of fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact with respect to a previously filed H-2A or H-2B petition. This provision will only apply if the final denial or revocation decision was issued on a petition filed on or after January 17, 2025; or
(
3
) A final determination of violation(s) under section 274(a) of the Act during the pendency of the petition or within 3 years prior to filing the petition if the final determination of violation(s) under section 274(a) of the Act is made on or after January 17, 2025 and the petition is filed on or after January 17, 2025.
(B) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(10)(iv)(A) of this section, USCIS may deny any H-2A or H-2B petition filed by a petitioner, or the successor in interest of a petitioner as defined in paragraphs (h)(5)(xi)(C)(
2
) and (h)(6)(i)(D)(
2
) of this section on or after January 17, 2025, that has been the subject of one or more of the following actions during the pendency of the petition or within 3 years prior to filing the petition, regardless of whether the action(s) or underlying violation(s) occurred before, on, or after January 17, 2025. USCIS may deny such a petition if it determines that the petitioner or successor has not established its intention and/or ability to comply with H-2A or H-2B program requirements. The violation(s) underlying the following actions that may call into question a petitioner's or successor's intention and/or ability to comply include:
(
1
) A final administrative determination by the Secretary of Labor or the Governor of Guam with respect to a prior H-2A or H-2B temporary labor certification that includes:
(
i
) Revocation of an approved temporary labor certification under 20 CFR part 655, subpart A or B, or applicable Guam regulations and rules;
(
ii
) Debarment under 20 CFR part 655, subpart A or B, or 29 CFR part 501 or 503, or applicable Guam regulations and rules, if the debarment period has concluded prior to filing the petition; or
(
iii
) Any other administrative sanction or remedy under 29 CFR part 501 or 503, or applicable Guam regulations and rules, including assessment of civil money penalties as described in those parts.
(
2
) A final USCIS decision revoking the approval of a prior petition that includes one or more of the following findings: the beneficiary was not employed by the petitioner in the capacity specified in the petition; the statement of facts contained in the petition or on the application for a temporary labor certification was not true and correct, or was inaccurate; the petitioner violated terms and conditions of the approved petition; or the petitioner violated requirements of section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act or this paragraph (h); or
(
3
) Any final administrative or judicial determination (other than one described in paragraph (h)(10)(iv)(A) of this section) that the petitioner violated any applicable employment-related laws or regulations, including health and safety laws or regulations.
(C) In determining whether the underlying violation(s) in paragraph (h)(10)(iv)(B) of this section calls into question the intention and/or ability of the petitioner or its successor in interest to comply with H-2A or H-2B program requirements, USCIS will consider all relevant factors, including, but not limited to:
(
1
) The recency and number of violations;
(
2
) The egregiousness of the violation(s), including how many workers were affected, and whether it involved a risk to the health or safety of workers;
(
3
) Overall history or pattern of prior violations;
(
4
) The severity or monetary amount of any penalties imposed;
(
5
) Whether the final determination, decision, or conviction included a finding of willfulness;
(
6
) The extent to which the violator achieved a financial gain due to the violation(s), or the potential financial loss or potential financial injury to the workers;
(
7
) Timely compliance with all penalties and remedies ordered under the final determination(s), decision(s), or conviction(s); and
(
8
) Other corrective actions taken by the petitioner or its successor in interest to cure its violation(s) or prevent future violations.
(D) For purposes of paragraph (h)(10)(iv) of this section, a criminal conviction or final administrative or judicial determination against any one of the following individuals will be treated as a conviction or final administrative or judicial determination against the petitioner or successor in interest:
(
1
) An individual acting on behalf of the petitioning entity, which could include, among others, the petitioner's owner, employee, or contractor; or
(
2
) With respect to paragraph (h)(10)(iv)(B) of this section, an employee of the petitioning entity who a reasonable person in the H-2A or H-2B worker's position would believe is acting on behalf of the petitioning entity.
(E)(
1
) With respect to denials under paragraph (h)(10)(iv)(A) of this section, USCIS will inform the petitioner of the right to appeal the denial under 8 CFR 103.3, and indicate in the denial notice that the mandatory ground of denial will also apply in the adjudication of any other pending or future H-2 petition filed by the petitioner or a successor in interest during the applicable time period.
(
2
) With respect to denials under paragraph (h)(10)(iv)(B) of this section, USCIS will inform the petitioner of the right to appeal the denial under 8 CFR 103.3, and indicate in the denial notice that the discretionary ground of denial may also apply in the adjudication of any other pending or future H-2 petition filed by the petitioner or a successor in interest during the applicable time period.
(F) If USCIS has determined in the course of a prior adjudication that a petitioner (or the preceding entity, if the petitioner is a successor in interest) has established its intention and ability to comply with H-2A or H-2B program requirements notwithstanding relevant violation determination(s) under paragraph (h)(10)(iv)(B) of this section, USCIS will not seek to deny a subsequent petition under paragraph (h)(10)(iv)(B) based on the same previous violation determination(s) unless USCIS becomes aware of a new material fact or finds that its previous determination was based on a material error of law.
(11) * * *
(iv)
Effect of H-2A or H-2B petition revocation.
Upon revocation of the approval of an employer's H-2A or H-2B petition, the beneficiary and their dependents will not be considered to have failed to maintain nonimmigrant status, and will not accrue any period of unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(9)), solely on the basis of the petition revocation for a 60-day period following the date of the revocation, or until the end of the authorized period of admission, whichever is shorter. During such a period, the alien may only work as otherwise authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12. The employer will be liable for the alien beneficiary's reasonable costs of return transportation to their last place of foreign residence abroad, unless such alien obtains an extension of stay based on an approved
petition in the same classification filed by a different employer.
(13) * * *
(i)
General.
(A) An H-3 beneficiary will be admitted to the United States for the validity period of the petition, plus a period of up to 10 days before the validity period begins and 10 days after the validity period ends. The beneficiary may not work except during the validity period of the petition.
(B) When an alien in an H classification has spent the maximum allowable period of stay in the United States, a new petition under section 101(a)(15)(H) or (L) of the Act may not be approved unless that alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States, except for brief trips for business or pleasure, for the time limit imposed on the particular H classification. Brief trips to the United States for business or pleasure during the required time abroad are not interruptive, but do not count toward fulfillment of the required time abroad. A certain period of absence from the United States of H-2A and H-2B aliens, as set forth in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(5)(viii)(D) and 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(vii)(C), respectively, will provide a new total of 3 years that H-2A or H-2B status may be granted. The petitioner must provide information about the alien's employment, place of residence, and the dates and purposes of any trips to the United States during the period that the alien was required to reside abroad.
(C) An alien admitted or otherwise provided status in H-2A or H-2B classification and their dependents will not be considered to have failed to maintain nonimmigrant status, and will not accrue any period of unlawful presence under section 212(a)(9) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(9)), solely on the basis of a cessation of the employment on which the alien's classification was based, for 60 consecutive days or until the end of the authorized period of admission, whichever is shorter, once during each authorized period of admission. During such a period, the alien may only work as otherwise authorized under 8 CFR 274a.12.
(D) An alien in any authorized period described in paragraph (C) of this section may apply for and be granted an extension of stay under 8 CFR 214.1(c)(4) or change of status under 8 CFR 248.1, if otherwise eligible.
(iv)
H-3 limitation on admission.
An H-3 alien participant in a special education program who has spent 18 months in the United States under sections 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act; and an H-3 alien trainee who has spent 24 months in the United States under sections 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act may not seek extension, change status, or be readmitted to the United States under sections 101(a)(15)(H) and/or (L) of the Act unless the alien has resided and been physically present outside the United States for the immediate prior 6 months.
(v)
Exceptions.
The limitations in paragraphs (h)(13)(iii) and (iv) of this section will not apply to H-1B and H-3 aliens who did not reside continually in the United States and whose employment in the United States was seasonal or intermittent or was for an aggregate of 6 months or less per year. In addition, the limitations will not apply to aliens who reside abroad and regularly commute to the United States to engage in part-time employment. To qualify for this exception, the petitioner and the alien must provide clear and convincing proof that the alien qualifies for such an exception. Such proof shall consist of evidence such as arrival and departure records, copies of tax returns, and records of employment abroad.
(16) * * *
(ii)
H-2A or H-2B classification.
The approval of a permanent labor certification, the filing of an immediate relative or preference petition for or by an alien or a diversity visa petition with the Department of State, or an application by an alien to seek lawful permanent residence or an immigrant visa, will not, standing alone, be the basis for denying an H-2 petition, a request to extend such a petition, or an application for admission in, change of status to, or extension of stay in H-2 status. The approval of a permanent labor certification, filing of an immediate relative petition, preference petition, or diversity visa petition, or filing of an application for adjustment of status or an immigrant visa will be considered, together with all other facts presented, in determining whether the H-2 nonimmigrant is maintaining his or her H-2 status and whether the alien has a residence in a foreign country which he or she has no intention of abandoning.
(iii)
H-3 classification.
The approval of a permanent labor certification, or the filing of a preference petition for an alien currently employed by or in a training position with the same petitioner, will be a reason, by itself, to deny the alien's extension of stay.
(20)
Retaliatory action claims.
(i) If credible documentary evidence is provided in support of a petition seeking an extension of H-1B stay in or change of status to another classification indicating that the beneficiary faced retaliatory action from their employer based
on a report regarding a violation of that employer's labor condition application obligations under section 212(n)(2)(C)(iv) of the Act, USCIS may consider a loss or failure to maintain H-1B status by the beneficiary related to such violation as due to, and commensurate with, “extraordinary circumstances” as defined by 8 CFR 214.1(c)(4) and 8 CFR 248.1(b).
(ii) If credible documentary evidence is provided in support of a petition seeking an extension of H-2A or H-2B stay in or change of status to another classification indicating that the beneficiary faced retaliatory action from their employer based on a reasonable claim of a violation or potential violation of any applicable program requirements or based on engagement in another protected activity, USCIS may consider a loss or failure to maintain H-2A or H-2B status by the beneficiary related to such violation as due to, and commensurate with, “extraordinary circumstances” as defined by 8 CFR 214.1(c)(4) and 8 CFR 248.1(b). USCIS will determine the reasonableness of any claim from the perspective of a reasonable person in the H-2A or H-2B worker's position.
(30)
Severability.
The Department intends that should any of the revisions effective on January 17, 2025, to provisions in paragraphs (h)(2), (5), (6), (10), (11), (13), (16) and (20) of this section or to the provision in 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(21) be held to be invalid or unenforceable by their terms or as applied to any person or circumstance they should nevertheless be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision(s) permitted by law, unless any such provision is held to be wholly invalid and unenforceable, in which event the provision(s) should be severed from the remainder of the provisions and the holding should not affect the other provisions or the application of those other provisions to persons not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances.
§ 214.3
Certification and recertification of schools for enrollment of F and M nonimmigrants.
(a)
Filing petition
—(1)
General.
A school or school system seeking certification or recertification for attendance by nonimmigrant students under sections 101(a)(15)(F) or 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act, or both, must file a petition for certification or recertification with SEVP, using the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS), in accordance with the procedures at paragraph (h) of this section. The petition must state whether the school or school system is seeking certification or recertification for attendance of nonimmigrant students under section 101(a)(15)(F) or 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act or both. The petition must identify by name and address each location of the school that is included in the petition for certification or recertification, specifically including any physical location in which a nonimmigrant can attend classes through the school (
i.e.,
campus, extension campuses, satellite campuses, etc.).
(i)
School systems.
A school system, as used in this section, means public school (grades 9-12) or private school (grades kindergarten-12). A petition by a school system must include a list of the names and addresses of those schools included in the petition with the supporting documents.
(ii)
Submission requirements.
Certification and recertification petitions require that a complete Form I-17, Petition for Approval of School for Attendance by Nonimmigrant Student, bearing signatures, be included with the school's submission of supporting documentation. In submitting the Form I-17, a school certifies that the designated school officials (DSOs) signing the form have read and understand DHS regulations relating to: nonimmigrant students at § 214.1, 214.2(f), and/or 214.2(m); change of nonimmigrant classification for students at 8 CFR part 248; school certification and recertification under this section; withdrawal of school certification under this section and §§ 214.4; that both the school and its DSOs intend to comply with these regulations at all times; and that, to the best of its knowledge, the school is eligible for SEVP certification. Willful misstatements may constitute perjury (18 U.S.C. 1621).
(2)
Certification for F-1 or M-1 classification, or both
—(i)
F-1 classification.
The following schools may be certified for attendance by nonimmigrant students under section 101(a)(15)(F) of the Act:
(A) A college or university,
i.e.,
an institution of higher learning which awards recognized bachelor's, master's, doctor's or professional degrees.
(B) A community college or junior college which provides instruction in the liberal arts or in the professions and which awards recognized associate degrees.
(C) A seminary.
(D) A conservatory.
(E) An academic high school.
(F) A private elementary or middle school.
(G) An institution which provides language training, instruction in the liberal arts or fine arts, instruction in the professions, or instruction or training in more than one of these disciplines.
(ii)
M-1 classification.
The following schools are considered to be vocational or nonacademic institutions and may be certified for attendance by nonimmigrant students under section 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act:
(A) A community college or junior college which provides vocational or technical training and which awards recognized associate degrees.
(B) A vocational high school.
(C) A school which provides vocational or nonacademic training other than language training.
(iii)
Both F-1 and M-1 classification.
A school may be certified for attendance by nonimmigrant students under both sections 101(a)(15)(F) and 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act if it has both instruction in the liberal arts, fine arts, language, religion, or the professions and vocational or technical training. In that case, a student whose primary intent is to pursue studies in liberal arts, fine arts, language, religion, or the professions at the school is classified as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(F) of the Act. A student whose primary intent is to pursue vocational or technical training at the school is classified as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act.
(iv)
English language training for a vocational student.
A student whose primary intent is to pursue vocational or technical training who takes English language training at the same school solely for the purpose of being able to understand the vocational or technical course of study is classified as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act.
(v)
Schools not qualified for attendance.
The following may not be certified for attendance by foreign students:
(A) A home school,
(B) A public elementary or middle school; or
(C) An adult education program, as defined by section 203(1) of the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, Public Law 113-128, as amended, U.S.C. 3272(1), if the adult education program is funded in whole or in part by a grant under the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, or by any other Federal, State, county, or municipal funding.
(3)
Eligibility.
(i) The petitioner, to be eligible for certification, must establish at the time of filing that it:
(A) Is a bona fide school;
(B) Is an established institution of learning or other recognized place of study;
(C) Possesses the necessary facilities, personnel, and finances to conduct instruction in recognized courses; and
(D) Is, in fact, engaged in instruction in those courses.
(ii) The petitioner, to be eligible for recertification, must establish at the time of filing that it:
(A) Remains eligible for certification in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section; and
(B) Has complied during its previous period of certification or recertification with recordkeeping, retention, and reporting requirements and all other requirements of paragraphs (g), (j), (k), and (l) of this section.
(b)
Supporting documents.
Schools petitioning for certification or recertification must submit the following supporting documents:
(1)
Licensure, approval, and accreditation documents.
A charter will not be considered a license, approval, or accreditation.
(i)
Public Schools.
A petitioning school or school system owned and operated as a public educational institution or system by the United States or a State or a political subdivision thereof must submit a certification to that effect signed by the authorized public official. The official must certify that they are authorized to do so.
(ii)
Private elementary, middle, or secondary schools.
A petitioning private elementary, middle, or secondary school
or school system must submit a certification signed by the authorized public official that it meets the requirements of the State or local public educational system. The official must certify that they are authorized to do so.
(iii)
Any other school.
Any other petitioning school not included under paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section must submit a certification that—
(A) The school is licensed, approved, or accredited by the authorized official, who must certify that they are authorized to do so; or
(B) If the school offers courses recognized by a State-approving agency as appropriate for study for veterans under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3675 and 3676, in lieu of such certification provided in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the school may submit a statement of recognition signed by the authorized official of the State approving agency, who must certify that they are authorized to do so.
(2)
School operations information.
Private schools that are not accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body or operated as part of a school that is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body must submit a school catalog, if one is issued. If not included in the catalog, or if a catalog is not issued, the school must furnish a written statement containing the following information listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section:
(i) Size of its physical facilities;
(ii) Nature of its facilities for study and training;
(iii) Educational, vocational, or professional qualifications of the teaching staff;
(iv) Salaries of the teachers;
(v) Attendance and scholastic grading policy;
(vi) Amount and character of supervisory and consultative services available to students and trainees; and
(vii) Finances, including a certified copy of the accountant's last statement of school's net worth, income, and expenses.
(c)
Additional evidence
—(1)
Vocational, business, and language schools, and American institutions of research.
A petitioning vocational, business, or language school, or an American institution of research recognized as such by the Secretary of Homeland Security, must submit evidence that its courses of study are accepted as fulfilling the requirements for the attainment of an educational, professional, or vocational objective, and have not been designated avocational or recreational through the appropriate licensing or approval officials.
(2)
Unaccredited private elementary, middle, and secondary schools.
A petitioning private elementary, middle, or secondary school that is not accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body or operated by a school that is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body must submit evidence that attendance at the petitioning school—
(i) Satisfies the compulsory attendance requirements of the State in which it is located; and
(ii) Qualifies graduates for acceptance by schools of a higher educational level by a public school, a school accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body, or a secondary school operated by a school that is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency.
(3)
Unaccredited private institutions of higher learning.
A private institution of higher learning that is not accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body must submit evidence that—
(i) It confers upon its graduates recognized bachelor, master, doctor, professional or divinity degrees; or
(ii) If it does not confer such degrees, its credits have been and are accepted unconditionally by at least three other institutions of higher learning that are public or accredited by a nationally recognized accredited body.
(d)
Interview of petitioner.
The petitioner or an authorized representative of the petitioner may be required to appear in person before or be interviewed by telephone by a DHS representative prior to the adjudication of a petition for certification or recertification. The interview will be conducted under oath.
(e)
Notices to schools related to certification or recertification petitions or to out-of-cycle review
—(1)
General.
All notices from SEVP to schools or school systems related to school certification, recertification, or out-of-cycle review
(including, but not limited to, notices related to the collection of evidence, testimony, and appearance pertaining to petitions for recertification encompassing compliance with the recordkeeping, retention and reporting, and other requirements of paragraphs (f), (g), (j), (k), and (l) of this section, as well as to eligibility) will be served in accordance with the procedures at 8 CFR 103.2(b)(1), (4)-(16), (18) and (19), with the exception that all procedures will be conducted by SEVP, the SEVP Director, and the Assistant Secretary, ICE, as appropriate, and except as provided in this section. All such notices will be served (
i.e.,
generated and transmitted) through SEVIS and/or by e-mail. The date of service is the date of transmission of the e-mail notice. DSOs must maintain current contact information, including current e-mail addresses, at all times. Failure of a school to receive SEVP notices due to inaccurate DSO e-mail addresses in SEVIS or blockages of the school's e-mail system caused by spam filters is not grounds for appeal of a denial or withdrawal. The term “in writing” means either a paper copy bearing original signatures or an electronic copy bearing electronic signatures.
(2)
SEVP approval notification and SEVIS updating by certified schools.
SEVP will notify the petitioner by updating SEVIS to reflect approval of the petition and by e-mail upon approval of a certification or recertification petition. The certification or recertification is valid only for the type of program and nonimmigrant classification specified in the certification or recertification approval notice. The certification must be recertified every two years and may be subject to out-of-cycle review at any time. Approval may be withdrawn in accordance with 8 CFR 214.4.
(3)
Modifications to Form I-17 while a school is SEVP-certified.
Any modification made by an SEVP-certified school on the Form I-17 at any time after certification and for the duration of a school's authorization to enroll F and/or M students must be reported to SEVP and will be processed by SEVP in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (f)(1), (g)(2) and (h)(3)(i) of this section.
(4)
Notice of Intent to Withdraw (NOIW) SEVP certification
—(i)
Automatic withdrawal.
SEVP will serve the school with an NOIW 30 days prior to a school's SEVP certification expiration date if the school has not submitted to SEVP a completed recertification petition, in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section. The school will be automatically withdrawn immediately, in accordance with 8 CFR 214.4(a)(3), if it has not submitted a completed recertification petition by the school's certification expiration date.
(ii)
Withdrawal on notice.
SEVP will serve a Withdrawal on Notice, in accordance with 8 CFR 214.4(b), if SEVP determines that a school reviewed out-of-cycle has failed to sustain eligibility or has failed to comply with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of paragraphs (f), (g), (j), (k), and (l) of this section. When a school fails to file an answer to an NOIW within the 30-day period, SEVP will withdraw the school's certification and notify the DSOs of the decision, in accordance with 8 CFR 214.4(d). A withdrawal for failure to respond to a notice of intent may not be appealed.
(5)
Notice of Denial.
A Notice of Denial will be served to a school when SEVP denies a petition for certification or recertification. The notice will address appeals options. Schools denied recertification must comply with 8 CFR 214.4(i).
(6)
Notice of Automatic Withdrawal.
Schools that relinquish SEVP certification for any of the reasons cited in 8 CFR 214.4(a)(3) will be served a Notice of Automatic Withdrawal.
(7)
Notice of Withdrawal.
A school found to be ineligible for continued SEVP certification as a result of an out-of-cycle review will receive a Notice of Withdrawal. Schools withdrawn must comply with 8 CFR 214.4(i).
(8)
Notice of SEVIS Access Termination Date.
The Notice of SEVIS Access Termination Date gives the official date for the school's denial or withdrawal to be final and SEVIS access to be terminated. In most situations, SEVP will not adjust a SEVIS access termination date for that school when the appeals process has concluded and the denial or withdrawal has been upheld, in accordance with § 214.4(i)(2). The school will
no longer be able to access SEVIS and SEVP will automatically terminate any remaining Active SEVIS records for that school on that date.
(f)
Adjudication of a petition for SEVP certification or recertification
—(1)
Approval.
The school is required to immediately report through SEVIS any change to its school information upon approval of a petition for SEVP certification or recertification. Modification to school information listed in paragraph (h)(3) of this section will require a determination of continued eligibility for certification. The certification or recertification is valid only for the type of program and student specified in the approval notice. The certification may be withdrawn in accordance with the provisions of 8 CFR 214.4, is subject to review at any time, and will be reviewed every two years.
(2)
Denial.
The petitioner will be notified of the reasons for the denial and appeal rights, in accordance with the provisions of 8 CFR part 103 and 8 CFR 214.4, if SEVP denies a petition for certification or recertification.
(g)
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements
—(1)
Student records.
An SEVP-certified school must keep records containing certain specific information and documents relating to each F-1 or M-1 student to whom it has issued a Form I-20 or successor form, while the student is attending the school and until the school notifies SEVP, in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, that the student is no longer pursuing a full course of study at that school. Student information not required for entry in SEVIS may be kept in the school's student system of records, but must be accessible to DSOs. The school must keep a record of having complied with the reporting requirements for at least three years after the student is no longer pursuing a full course of study at that school. The school must maintain records on the student in accordance with paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section if a school recommends reinstatement for a student who is out of status. The school must maintain records on the student for three years from the date of the denial if the reinstatement is denied. The DSO must make the information and documents required by this paragraph (g)(1) available, including academic transcripts, and must furnish them to DHS representatives upon request. Schools must maintain and be able to provide an academic transcript or other routinely maintained student records that reflect the total, unabridged academic history of the student at the institution, in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section. All courses must be recorded in the academic period in which the course was taken and graded. The information and documents that the school must keep on each student are as follows:
(i) Identification of the school, to include name and full address.
(ii) Identification of the student, to include name while in attendance (record any legal name change), date and place of birth, country of citizenship, and school's student identification number.
(iii) Current address where the student and his or her dependents physically reside. In the event the student or his or her dependents cannot receive mail at such physical residence, the school must provide a mailing address in SEVIS. If the mailing address and the physical address are not the same, the school must maintain a record of both mailing and physical addresses and provide the physical location of residence of the student and his or her dependents to DHS upon request.
(iv) Record of coursework. Identify the student's degree program and field of study. For each course, give the periods of enrollment, course identification code and course title; the number of credits or contact hours, and the grade; the number of credits or clock hours, and for credit hour courses the credit unit; the term unit (semester hour, quarter hour, etc.). Include the date of withdrawal if the student withdrew from a course. Show the grade point average for each session or term. Show the cumulative credits or clock hours and cumulative grade point average. Narrative evaluation will be accepted in lieu of grades when the school uses no other type of grading.
(v) Record of transfer credit or clock hours accepted. Type of hours, course identification, grades.
(vi) Academic status. Include the effective date or period if suspended, dismissed, placed on probation, or withdrawn.
(vii) Whether the student has been certified for practical training, and the beginning and end dates of certification.
(viii) Statement of graduation (if applicable). Title of degree or credential received, date conferred, program of study or major.
(ix) Termination date and reason.
(x) The documents referred to in paragraph (k) of this section.

# Note to paragraph (
g

# )(1):
A DHS officer may request any or all of the data in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (x) of this section on any individual student or class of students upon notice. This notice will be in writing if requested by the school. The school will have three work days to respond to any request for information concerning an individual student, and ten work days to respond to any request for information concerning a class of students. The school will respond orally on the same day the request for information is made if DHS requests information on a student who is being held in custody, and DHS will provide a written notification that the request was made after the fact, if the school so desires. DHS will first attempt to gain information concerning a class of students from DHS record systems.
(2)
Reporting changes in student and school information.
(i) Schools must update SEVIS with the current information within 21 days of a change in any of the information contained in paragraphs (f)(1) and (h)(3) of this section.
(ii) Schools are also required to report within 21 days any change of the information contained in paragraph (g)(1) or the occurrence of the following events:
(A) Any student who has failed to maintain status or complete his or her program;
(B) A change of the student's or dependent's legal name or U.S. address;
(C) Any student who has graduated early or prior to the program end date listed on SEVIS Form I-20;
(D) Any disciplinary action taken by the school against the student as a result of the student being convicted of a crime; and
(E) Any other notification request not covered by paragraph (g)(1) of this section made by DHS with respect to the current status of the student.
(F) For F-1 students authorized by USCIS to engage in a 24-month extension of OPT under 8 CFR 214.2(f)(10)(ii)(C):
(
1
) Any change that the student reports to the school concerning legal name, residential or mailing address, employer name, or employer address; and
(
2
) The end date of the student's employment reported by a former employer in accordance with 8 CFR 214.2(f)(10)(ii)(C)(6).
(iii) Each term or session and no later than 30 days after the deadline for registering for classes, schools are required to report the following registration information:
(A) Whether the student has enrolled at the school, dropped below a full course of study without prior authorization by the DSO, or failed to enroll;
(B) The current address of each enrolled student; and
(C)
The start date of the student's next session, term, semester, trimester, or quarter.
For initial students, the start date is the “program start date” or “report date.” (These terms are used interchangeably.) The DSO may choose a reasonable date to accommodate a student's need to be in attendance for required activities at the school prior to the actual start of classes when determining the report date on the Form I-20. Such required activities may include, but are not limited to, research projects and orientation sessions. The DSO may not, however, indicate a report date more than 30 days prior to the start of classes. The next session start date is the start of classes for continuing students.
(D)
Adjustment to the program completion date.
Any factors that influence the student's progress toward program completion (e.g., deferred attendance, authorized drop below, program extension) must be reflected by making an adjustment updating the program completion date.
(3)
Administrative correction of a student's record.
In instances where technological or computer problems on the part of SEVIS cause an error in the student's record, the DSO may request
the SEVIS system administrator, without fee, to administratively correct the student's record.
(h)
SEVP certification, recertification, out-of-cycle review, and oversight of schools
—(1)
Certification.
A school seeking SEVP certification for attendance by nonimmigrants under section 101(a)(15)(F) or 101(a)(15)(M) of the Act must use SEVIS to file an electronic petition (which compiles the data for the Form I-17) and must submit the nonrefundable certification petition fee on-line.
(i)
Filing a petition.
The school must access the SEVP website at
https://www.ice.gov/sevis
to file a certification petition in SEVIS. The school will be issued a temporary SEVIS user ID and password in order to access SEVIS to complete and submit an electronic Form I-17. The school must submit the proper nonrefundable certification petition fee as provided in 8 CFR 103.7(d)(2).
(ii)
Site visit, petition adjudication and school notification.
SEVP will conduct a site visit for each petitioning school and its additional schools or campuses. SEVP will contact the school to arrange the site visit. The school must comply with and complete the visit within 30 days after the date SEVP contacts the school to arrange the visit, or the petition for certification will be denied as abandoned. DSOs and school officials that have signed the school's Form I-17 petition must be able to demonstrate to DHS representatives how they obtain access to the regulations cited in the certification petition as part of the site visit. Paper or electronic access is acceptable. DSOs must be able to extract pertinent citations within the regulations related to their requirements and responsibilities. SEVP will serve a notice of approval and SEVIS will be updated to reflect the school's certification if SEVP authorizes the school's certification petition.
(iii)
Certification denial.
SEVP will serve a notice of denial in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section if a school's petition for certification is denied.
(2)
Recertification.
Schools are required to file a completed petition for SEVP recertification before the school's certification expiration date, which is 2 years from the date of their previous SEVP certification or recertification expiration date. The school must submit the proper nonrefundable recertification petition fee as provided in 8 CFR 103.7(d)(2). SEVP will review a petitioning school's compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, and reporting, and other requirements of paragraphs (f), (g), (j), (k), and (l) of this section, as well as continued eligibility for certification, pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(i)
Filing of petition for recertification.
Schools must submit a completed Form I-17 (including any supplements and bearing signatures of all officials) using SEVIS. SEVP will notify all DSOs of a previously certified school 180 days prior to the school's certification expiration date that the school may submit a petition for recertification. A school may file its recertification petition at any time after receipt of this notification. A school must submit a complete recertification petition package, as outlined in the submission guidelines, by its certification expiration date. SEVP will send a notice of confirmation of complete filing or rejection to the school upon receipt of any filing of a petition for recertification.
(A) Notice of confirmation assures a school of uninterrupted access to SEVIS while SEVP adjudicates the school's petition for recertification. A school that has complied with the petition submission requirements will continue to have SEVIS access after its certification expiration date while the adjudication for recertification is pending. The school is required to comply with all regulatory recordkeeping, retention and reporting, and other requirements of paragraphs (f), (g), (j), (k), and (l) of this section during the period the petition is pending.
(B) Notice of rejection informs a school that it must take prompt corrective action in regard to its recertification petition prior to its certification expiration date to ensure that its SEVIS access will not be terminated and its petition for recertification will be accepted for adjudication.
(ii)
Consequence of failure to petition.
SEVP will serve an NOIW to the school 30 days prior to a school's certification expiration date. SEVP will no longer accept a petition for recertification from the school and will immediately withdraw the school's certification if the school does not petition for recertification, abandons its petition, or does not submit a complete recertification petition package by the certification expiration date, in accordance with the automatic withdrawal criteria in 8 CFR 214.4(a)(3). The school must comply with 8 CFR 214.4(i) upon withdrawal.
(iii)
School recertification process
—(A)
General.
School recertification reaffirms the petitioning school's eligibility for SEVP certification and the school's compliance with recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of paragraphs (f), (g), (j), (k), and (l) of this section since its previous certification.
(B)
Compliance.
Assessment by SEVP of a school petitioning for recertification will focus primarily on overall school compliance, but may also include examination of individual DSO compliance as data and circumstances warrant. Past performance of these individuals, whether or not they continue to serve as principal designated school officials (PDSOs) or DSOs, will be considered in any petition for recertification of the school.
(C)
On-site review for recertification.
All schools are subject to on-site review, at the discretion of SEVP, in conjunction with recertification. The school must comply with and complete an on-site review within 30 days of the notification by a DHS representative of a school that it has been selected for an on-site review for recertification, or the petition for recertification will be denied as abandoned, resulting in the school's withdrawal from SEVIS.
(iv)
Recertification approval.
SEVP will serve a notice of approval if a school's petition for recertification is approved. The date of the subsequent recertification review will be two years after the school's certification expiration date from this petition cycle.
(v)
Recertification denial.
SEVP will serve a notice of denial if a school's petition for recertification is denied, in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3(a)(1)(i).
(vi)
Adjustment of certification expiration date.
Schools eligible for recertification before March 25, 2009 will, at a minimum, have their certification expiration date extended to March 25, 2009. SEVP may extend the certification expiration date beyond this date during the first cycle of recertification.
(3)
Out-of-cycle review and oversight of SEVP-certified schools.
(i) SEVP will determine if out-of-cycle review is required upon receipt in SEVIS of any changes from an SEVP-certified school to its Form I-17 information. The Form I-17 information that requires out-of-cycle review when changed includes:
(A) Approval for attendance of students (F/M/both);
(B) Name of school system; name of main campus;
(C) Mailing address of the school;
(D) Location of the school;
(E) School type;
(F) Public/private school indicator;
(G) Private school owner name;
(H) The school is engaged in;
(I) The school operates under the following Federal, State, Local or other authorization;
(J) The school has been approved by the following national, regional, or state accrediting association or agency;
(K) Areas of study;
(L) Degrees available from the school;
(M) If the school is engaged in elementary or secondary education;
(N) If the school is engaged in higher education;
(O) If the school is engaged in vocational or technical education;
(P) If the school is engaged in English language training;
(Q) Adding or deleting campuses;
(R) Campus name;
(S) Campus mailing address; and
(T) Campus location address.
(ii) SEVP may request a school to electronically update all Form I-17 fields in SEVIS and provide SEVP with documentation supporting the update. The school must complete such updates in SEVIS and submit the supporting documentation to SEVP within 10 business days of the request from SEVP.
(iii) SEVP may review a school's certification at any time to verify the school's compliance with the recordkeeping, retention, reporting and other requirements of paragraphs (f), (g), (j), (k), and (l) of this section to verify the school's continued eligibility for SEVP certification pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section. SEVP may initiate remedial action with the school, as appropriate, and may initiate withdrawal proceedings against the school pursuant to 8 CFR 214.4(b) if noncompliance or ineligibility of a school is identified.
(iv)
On-site review.
SEVP-certified schools are subject to on-site review at any time. SEVP will initiate withdrawal proceedings against a certified school, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.4(b), if the certified school selected for on-site review prior to its certification expiration date fails to comply with and complete the review within 30 days of the date SEVP contacted the school to arrange the review.
(v)
Notice of Continued Eligibility.
SEVP will serve the school a notice of continued eligibility if, upon completion of an out-of-cycle review, SEVP determines that the school remains eligible for certification. Such notice will not change the school's previously-determined certification expiration date unless specifically notified by SEVP.
(vi)
Withdrawal of certification.
SEVP will institute withdrawal proceedings in accordance with 8 CFR 214.4(b) if, upon completion of an out-of-cycle review, SEVP determines that a school or its programs are no longer eligible for certification.
(vii)
Voluntary withdrawal.
A school can voluntarily withdraw from SEVP certification at any time or in lieu of complying with an out-of-cycle review or request. Failure of a school to comply with an out-of-cycle review or request by SEVP will be treated as a voluntary withdrawal. A school must initiate voluntary withdrawal by sending a request for withdrawal on official school letterhead to SEVP.
(i)
Administration of student regulations.
DHS officials may conduct out-of-cycle, on-site reviews on the campuses of SEVP-certified schools to determine whether nonimmigrant students on those campuses are complying with DHS regulations pertaining to them, including the requirement that each maintains a valid passport. DHS officers will take appropriate action regarding violations of the regulations by nonimmigrant students.
(j)
Advertising.
In any advertisement, catalogue, brochure, pamphlet, literature, or other material hereafter printed or reprinted by or for an SEVP-certified school, any statement which may appear in such material concerning certification for attendance by nonimmigrant students shall be limited solely to the following: This school is authorized under Federal law to enroll nonimmigrant alien students.
(k)
Issuance of Certificate of Eligibility.
A DSO of an SEVP-certified school must sign any completed Form I-20 issued for either a prospective or continuing student or a dependent. A Form I-20 issued by a certified school system must state which school within the system the student will attend. Only a DSO of an SEVP-certified school may issue a Form I-20 to a prospective student and his or her dependents, and only after the following conditions are met:
(1) The prospective student has made a written application to the school.
(2) The written application, the student's transcripts or other records of courses taken, proof of financial responsibility for the student, and other supporting documents have been received, reviewed, and evaluated at the school's location in the United States.
(3) The appropriate school authority has determined that the prospective student's qualifications meet all standards for admission.
(4) The official responsible for admission at the school has accepted the prospective student for enrollment in a full course of study.
(l)
Designated Official.
(1) Meaning of term
Designated Official.
As used in §§ 214.2(f) and (m), 214.3 and 214.4, a
Designated Official, Designated School Official (DSO),
or
Principal Designated School Official (PDSO),
means a regularly employed member of the school administration whose office is located at the school and whose compensation does not come from commissions for recruitment of foreign students. An individual whose principal obligation to
the school is to recruit foreign students for compensation does not qualify as a designated official. The PDSO and any other DSO must be named by the president, owner, or head of a school or school system. The PDSO and DSO may not delegate this designation to any other person.
(i) A PDSO and DSO must be either a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States.
(ii) Each campus must have one PDSO. The PDSO is responsible for updating SEVIS to reflect the addition or deletion of any DSO on their associated campus. SEVP will use the PDSO at the main campus as the point of contact on any issues that relate to the school's compliance with the regulations, as well as any system alerts generated by SEVIS. SEVP may also designate certain functions in SEVIS for use by the PDSO only. The PDSO of the main campus is the only DSO authorized to submit a Form I-17 for recertification. The PDSO and DSO will share the same responsibilities in all other respects.
(iii) School officials may nominate as many DSOs in addition to PDSOs as they determine necessary to adequately provide recommendations to F and/or M students enrolled at the school regarding maintenance of nonimmigrant status and to support timely and complete recordkeeping and reporting to DHS, as required by this section. School officials must not permit a DSO or PDSO nominee access to SEVIS until DHS approves the nomination.
(2)
Name, title, and signature.
Petitions for SEVP certification, review and recertification must include the names, titles, and signatures of designated officials. An SEVP-certified school must update SEVIS upon any changes to the persons who are principal or designated officials, and furnish the name, title and e-mail address of any new official within 21 days of the change. Any changes to the PDSO or DSO must be made by the PDSO within 21 days of the change. DHS may, at its discretion, reject the submission of any individual as a DSO or withdraw a previous submission by a school of an individual.
(3)
Statement of designated officials.
A petition for school certification must include a statement by each designated official certifying that the official is familiar with DHS regulations relating to the requirements for admission and maintenance of status of nonimmigrant students, change of nonimmigrant status under part 248 of this chapter, and school certification under §§ 214.3 and 214.4, and affirming the official's intent to comply with these regulations. At the time a new designated official is added, the designated official must make the same certification.
[30 FR 919, Jan. 29, 1965]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 214.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 214.4
Denial of certification, denial of recertification, or withdrawal of SEVP certification.
(a)
General
—(1)
Denial of certification.
The petitioning school will be notified of the reasons and its appeal rights if a petition for certification is denied, in accordance with the provisions of 8 CFR 103.3(a)(1)(iii). A petitioning school denied certification may file a new petition for certification at any time.
(2)
Denial of recertification or withdrawal on notice.
