(a) The Board shall collect fees for record requests made under § 1703.105, as provided in § 1703.107(b), unless a requester submits a request in writing for a waiver or reduction of fees. The Designated FOIA Officer shall make a determination on a fee waiver or reduction request within five working days of the request coming into his possession. No determination shall be made that a fee waiver or reduction request should be denied, until the Designated FOIA Officer has consulted with the General Counsel's Office. If the determination is made that the written request for a waiver or reduction of fees does not meet the requirements of this section, the Designated FOIA Officer shall inform the requester that the request for waiver or reduction of fees is being denied and set forth his appeal rights under § 1703.109.
(b) A person requesting the board to waive or reduce search, review, or duplication fees shall:
(1) Describe the purpose for which the requester intends to use the requested information;
(2) Explain the extent to which the requester will extract and analyze the substantive content of the agency record;
(3) Describe the nature of the specific activity or research in which the agency records will be used and the specific qualifications the requester possesses to utilize information for the intended use in such a way that it will contribute to public understanding;
(4) Describe the likely impact of disclosure of the requested records on the public's understanding of the subject as compared to the level of understanding of the subject existing prior to disclosure;
(5) Describe the size and nature of the public to whose understanding a contribution will be made;
(6) Describe the intended means of dissemination to the general public;
(7) Indicate if public access to information will be provided free of charge or provided for an access or publication fee; and
(8) Describe any commercial or private interest the requester or any other party has in the agency records sought.
(c) The Board shall waive or reduce fees, without further specific information from the requester if, from information provided with the request for agency records made under § 1703.105, it can determine that disclosure of the information in the agency records is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(d) In making a determination regarding a request for a waiver or reduction of fees, the Board shall consider the following factors:
(1) Whether the subject of the requested agency records concerns the operations or activities of the Government;
(2) Whether disclosure of the information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of Government operations or activities;
(3) Whether, and the extent to which, the requester has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the disclosure of the requested agency records; and
(4) Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
§ 1703.107
Fees for record requests.
(a) Fees for records available through the Public Reading Room.
(1) With the exception of copies of transcripts of Board public hearings addressed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the fees charged shall be limited to costs of duplication of the requested records. The Board shall either duplicate the requested records or have them duplicated by a commercial contractor. If the Board duplicates the records, it shall not charge the requester for the associated labor costs. A schedule of fees for this duplication service shall be prescribed in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of this section. A person may obtain a copy of the schedule of fees in person or by mail from the Public Reading Room. There shall be no charge for responses consisting of ten or fewer pages.
(2) Transcripts of Board public hearings are made by private contractors. Interested persons may obtain copies of public hearing transcripts from the contractor at prices set in the contract, or through the duplication service noted in paragraph (a) of this section, if the particular contract so permits. Copies of the contracts shall be available for public inspection in the Public Reading Room.
(3) Requests for certification of copies of official Board records must be accompanied by a fee of $5.00 per document. Inquiries and orders may be made to the Public Reading Room in person or by mail.
(b) Fees for records not available through the Public Reading Room (FOIA requests).
(1)
Definitions.
For the purpose of paragraph (b) of this section:
Commercial use
request means a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers commercial, trade, or profit interests as these phrases are commonly known or have been interpreted by the courts in the context of the FOIA;
Direct costs
mean those expenditures which DNFSB incurs in search, review, and duplication, as applicable to different categories of requesters, to respond to requests under § 1703.105. Direct costs include, for example, the hourly salary and projected benefits costs of agency personnel who search for, review, or duplicate records in response to a request. Overhead expenses such as cost of space, and heating or lighting the facility in which DNFSB records are stored are not included in direct costs.
Educational institution
refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, which operates a program of scholarly research;
Noncommercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a commercial basis and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry;
Representative of the news media
refers to any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The term
news
means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances when the periodicals can qualify as disseminations of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. Moreover, as traditional methods of news delivery evolve (e.g., electronic dissemination of newspapers through telecommunications services), such alternative media may be included in this category. A “freelance” journalist may be regarded as working for a news organization if the journalist can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization, even though the journalist is not actually employed by the news organization. A publication contract would be the clearest proof, but the Board may also look to the past publication record of a requester in making this determination.
(2)
Fees.
(i) If documents are requested for commercial use, DNFSB shall charge the hourly salary and projected benefits costs of agency personnel who search for and review records in response to a request, and for the costs of duplication as set out in subsection (b)(6) of this section.
(ii) If documents are not sought for commercial use and the request is made by an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media, DNFSB's charges shall be limited to the direct costs of duplication as set out in subsection (b)(6) of this section. There shall be no charge for the first 100 pages of duplication.
(iii) For a request not described in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section, DNFSB shall charge the hourly salary and projected benefits costs of the agency's personnel who search for records in response to a request and the direct costs of duplication as set out in subsection (b)(6) of this section. There shall be no charge for document review time, and the first 100 pages of reproduction and the first two hours of search time will be provided without charge.
(iv) The Board will not assess any fees if it has failed to meet its deadlines in § 1703.108.
(v) The Board, or its designee, may establish minimum fees below which no charges will be collected, if it determines that the costs of routine collection and processing of the fees are likely to equal or exceed the amount of the fees. If total fees determined by the Board for a FOIA request would be less than the appropriate threshold, the Board shall not charge the requesters.
(vi) Payment of fees must be by check or money order made payable to the U.S. Treasury.
(vii) Requesters may not file multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of a document or documents, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When the Board reasonably believes that a requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading assessment of fees, the Board may aggregate any such requests and charge the requester accordingly. The Board shall not, however, aggregate multiple requests on unrelated subjects from a requester.
(viii) Whenever the Board estimates that duplication or search costs are likely to exceed $25, it shall notify the requester of the estimated costs, unless the requester has indicated in advance his willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. Such a notice shall offer the requester an opportunity to confer with the Board personnel with the object of reformulating the request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(3)
Fees for unsuccessful search.
The Board may assess charges for time spent searching, even if it fails to locate the records, or if records located are determined to be exempt from disclosure.
(4)
Advance payments.
(i) If the Board estimates or determines that allowable charges that a requester may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250, the Board shall notify such requester of the estimated cost and either require satisfactory assurance of full payment where the requester has a history of prompt payment of fees, or require advance payment of the charges if a requester has no payment history.
(ii) If a requester has previously failed to pay a fee charged in a timely fashion, the Board shall require the requester to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the Board will begin to process a new request or a pending request from that requester.
(iii) When the Board requires advance payment under this paragraph, the administrative time limits prescribed in § 1703.108(b) will begin only after the Board has received the fee payments.
(5)
Debt collection.
The Board itself may endeavor to collect unpaid FOIA fees, or may refer unpaid FOIA invoices to the General Services Administration, or other federal agency performing financial management services for the Board, for collection.
(6)
Schedule of Fees.
To the extent authorized by these regulations, DNFSB is authorized to seek the following fees to recover costs incurred in responding to FOIA requests:
(i)
Document search charges
—(A)
Manual:
Salary rate(s) (basic hourly pay plus 16%) of personnel performing records search or review.
(B)
Electronic:
Salary rate(s) (basic hourly pay plus 16%) of personnel performing search or review.
(C)
Document Review Charges:
Salary rate(s) (basic hourly pay plus 16%) of personnel performing search or review.
(iii)
Commercial requests.
DNFSB will charge requesters who seek records for commercial purposes for the cost of reviewing them to determine whether they are exempt from mandatory disclosure. The agency will assess these charges only when the records are first analyzed to determine the applicability of a specific exemption to a record or portion thereof. DNFSB will not charge for the review of an exemption previously applied at the administrative review level. If a record or portion thereof was withheld in full under an exemption that is subsequently found inapplicable, it may be reviewed again to determine the applicability of other exemptions not previously considered. DNFSB may charge for the cost of such review.
(iv)
Copying charges.
(
1
)
Paper:
$.05 per page, if done in-house, or generally available commercial rate, approximately $0.10 per page.
(
2
)
Electronic media:
Direct cost, including operator time (basic hourly pay plus 16%).
(
3
)
Audio and video cassette:
Actual commercial rates.
(
4
)
Duplication of CD or DVD:
Direct cost, including operator time (basic hourly pay plus 16%).
(
5
)
Large documents, e.g., maps or diagrams:
Actual commercial rates.
[56 FR 21261, May 8, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 66816, Dec. 22, 1997; 82 FR 30723, July 3, 2017; 89 FR 73260, Sept. 10, 2024]
§ 1703.108
Processing of FOIA requests.
(a) Where a request complies with § 1703.105 as to specificity and statement of willingness to pay or request for fee waiver or reduction, the Designated FOIA Officer shall acknowledge receipt of the request and commence processing of the request. The Designated FOIA Officer shall prepare a written response:
(1) Granting the request,
(2) Denying the request,
(3) Granting or denying it in part,
(4) Stating that the request has been referred to another agency under § 1703.105, or
(5) Informing the requester that responsive records cannot be located or do not exist.
(b) Action pursuant to this section to provide access to requested records shall be taken within twenty working days. This time period may be extended up to ten additional working days, in unusual circumstances, by written notice to the requester. If the Board will be unable to satisfy the request in this additional period of time, the requester will be so notified and given the opportunity to—
(1) Limit the scope of the request so that it can be processed within the time limit, or
(2) Arrange with the Designated FOIA Officer an alternative time frame for processing the original request or a modified request.
(c) For purposes of this section and § 1703.109, the term
unusual circumstances
may include but is not limited to the following:
(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the Board's Washington, DC offices:
(2) The need to search for, collect and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which may be responsive to a single request; or
(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency pursuant to § 1703.105(d).
(d) If no determination has been made at the end of the ten day period, or the last extension thereof, the requester may deem his administrative remedies to have been exhausted, giving rise to a right of review in a district court of the United States as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). When no determination can be made within the applicable time limit, the Board will nevertheless continue to process the request. If the Board is unable to provide a response within the statutory period, the Designated FOIA Officer shall inform the requester of the reason for the delay; the date on which a determination may be expected to be made; and that the requester can seek remedy through the courts, but shall ask the requester to forgo such action until a determination is made.
(e) Nothing in this part shall preclude the Designated FOIA Officer and a requester from agreeing to an extension of time for the initial determination on a request. Any such agreement shall be confirmed in writing and shall clearly specify the total time agreed upon.
(f) The procedure for appeal of denial of a request for Board records is set forth in § 1703.109.
[56 FR 21261, May 8, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 66816, Dec. 22, 1997]
§ 1703.109
Procedure for appeal of denial of requests for board records and denial of requests for fee waiver or reduction.
(a)(1) A person whose request for access to records in whole or in part may appeal that determination to the General Counsel within 90 days of the determination. A person denied a fee waiver or reduction may appeal that determination to the General Counsel within 30 days. The person may also seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison of the agency. Appeals filed pursuant to this section must be in writing, directed to the General Counsel at the address indicated in § 1703.105(b)(2), and clearly marked “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.” Such an appeal received by the Board
not addressed and marked as indicated in this paragraph will be so addressed and marked by Board personnel as soon as it is properly identified and then will be forwarded to the General Counsel.
(2) The General Counsel shall make a determination with respect to any appeal within 20 working days after the receipt of such appeal. If, on appeal, the denial of the request for records or fee reduction is in whole or in part upheld, the General Counsel shall notify the person making such request of the provisions for judicial review of that determination.
(3) The requestor may request that the FOIA Public Liaison refer the denial to be reviewed through dispute resolution services or may request the Office of Government Information Services within the National Archives and Records Administration to review the denial.
(b) In unusual circumstances, as defined in § 1703.108(c), the time limits prescribed for deciding an appeal pursuant to this section may be extended by up to ten working days, by the General Counsel, who will send written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for such extension and the expected determination date.
[56 FR 21261, May 8, 1991, as amended at 82 FR 30723, July 3, 2017]
§ 1703.110
Requests for classified records.
The Board may at any time be in possession of classified records and Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UCNI) received from the Department of Energy or other federal agencies. The Board shall refer requests under § 1703.105 for such records or information to the Department of Energy or other originating agency without making an independent determination as to the releasability of such documents. The Board shall refer requests for classified records in a manner consistent with Executive Order 12356, “National Security Information,” 3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 166, or any superseding Executive Order. The Board shall refer requests for UCNI in a manner consistent with 42 U.S.C. 2168 and the Department of Energy's implementing regulations in 10 CFR part 1017 or any successor regulations.
§ 1703.111
Requests for privileged treatment of documents submitted to the board.
(a)
Scope.
Any person submitting a document to the Board may request privileged treatment by claiming that some or all of the information contained in the document is exempt from the mandatory public disclosure requirements of FOIA and should otherwise be withheld from public disclosure.
(b)
Procedures.
A person claiming that information is privileged under paragraph (a) of this section must file:
(1) An application, accompanied by an affidavit, requesting privileged treatment for some or all of the information in a document, and stating the justification for nondisclosure of the information and addressing the factors set forth in paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) The original document, boldly indicating on the front page “Contains Privileged Information—Do Not Release” and identifying within the document the information for which the privileged treatment is sought;
(3) Three copies of the redacted document (
i.e.,
without the information for which privileged treatment is sought) and with a statement indicating that information has been removed for privileged treatment; and
(4) The name, title, address, telephone number, and telecopy information of the person or persons to be contacted regarding the request for privileged treatment of documents submitted to the Board.
(c)
Effect of privilege claim.
(1) The Designated FOIA Officer shall place documents for which privileged treatment is sought in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section in a nonpublic file, while the request for confidential treatment is pending. By placing documents in a nonpublic file, the Board is not making a determination on any claim for privilege. The Board retains the right to make determinations with regard to any claim of privilege, and the discretion to release information as necessary to carry out its responsibilities.
(2) The Designated FOIA Officer shall place the request for privileged treatment described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and a copy of the redacted document described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in a public file while the request for privileged treatment is pending.
(d)
Notification of request and opportunity to comment.
When a FOIA requester seeks a document for which privilege is claimed, the Designated FOIA Officer shall so notify the person who submitted the document and give that person an opportunity (at least five days) in which to comment in writing on the request. A copy of this notice shall be sent to the FOIA requester.
(e)
Factors to be considered by Board.
In determining whether to grant the document privileged status and to deny the request for the document the Board shall consider:
(1) Whether the information has been held in confidence by its owner;
(2) Whether the information is of a type customarily held in confidence by its owner and whether there is a rational basis therefor;
(3) Whether the information was transmitted to and received by the Board in confidence;
(4) Whether the information is available in public sources; and
(5) Whether public disclosure of the information sought to be withheld is likely to cause substantial harm to the competitive position of the owner of the information, taking into account the value of the information to the owner; the amount of effort or money, if any, expended by the owner in developing the information; and the ease or difficulty with which the information could be properly acquired or duplicated by others.
(f)
Notification before release.
Notice of a decision by the Designated FOIA Officer to deny a claim of privilege, in whole or in part, shall be given to any person claiming that information is privileged no less than five days before public disclosure. The decision shall be made only after consultation with the General Counsel's Office. The notice shall briefly explain why the person's objections to disclosure were not sustained. A copy of this notice shall be sent to the FOIA requester.
(g)
Notification of suit in Federal courts.
When a FOIA requester brings suit to compel disclosure of confidential commercial information, the Board shall notify the person who submitted documents containing such confidential commercial information of the suit.
§ 1703.112
Computation of time.
In computing any period of time under this part, the day of the Board's action is not included. The last day of the period is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which case the period runs until the end of the next working day. Whenever a person has the right or is required to take some action within a prescribed period after notification by the Board and the notification is made by mail, five days shall be added to the prescribed period. Only two days shall be added when a notification is made by express mail.
Pt. 1704

# PART 1704—RULES IMPLEMENTING THE GOVERNMENT IN THE SUNSHINE ACT
Sec.
1704.1
Applicability.
1704.2
Definitions.
1704.3
Open meetings requirement.
1704.4
Grounds on which meetings may be closed or information may be withheld.
1704.5
Procedures for closing meetings, or withholding information, and requests by affected persons to close a meeting.
1704.6
Procedures for public announcement of meetings.
1704.7
Changes following public announcement.
1704.8
Transcripts, recordings, or minutes of closed meetings.
1704.9
Availability and retention of transcripts, recordings, and minutes, and applicable fees.
1704.10
Severability.
1704.11
Nonpublic collaborative discussions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552b; 42 U.S.C. 2286, 2286b(c), (k).

# Source:
56 FR 9609, Mar. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1704.1
Applicability.
(a) This part implements the provisions of the Government in the Sunshine Act (5 U.S.C. 552b). These procedures apply to meetings, as defined herein, of the Members of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Board). The Board may waive the provisions set forth in this part to the extent authorized by law.
(b) Requests for all documents other than the transcripts, recordings, and minutes described in § 1704.8 shall be governed by Board regulations pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
§ 1704.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Chairman
and
Vice Chairman
mean those Members designated by the President to serve in said positions, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2286(c).
(b)
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
means the Board established under the National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989.
(c)
General Counsel
means the Board's principal legal officer, or an attorney serving as Acting General Counsel.
(d)
Meeting
means the deliberations of three or more Members where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business. A meeting does not include:
(1) Notation voting or similar consideration of business for the purpose of recording of votes, whether by circulation of material to the Members individually in writing or by a polling of the Members individually by telephone.
(2) Action by three or more Members to:
(i) Open or to close a meeting or to release or to withhold information pursuant to § 1704.5;
(ii) Set an agenda for a proposed meeting(s);
(iii) Call a meeting on less than seven days' notice as permitted by § 1704.6(b); or
(iv) Change the subject matter or the determination to open or to close a publicly announced meeting under § 1704.7(b).
(3) A session attended by three or more Members for which the purpose is to have the Board's staff or expert consultants to the Board brief or otherwise provide information to the Board concerning any matters within the purview of the Board under its authorizing statute, provided that the Board does not engage in deliberations that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business on such matters.
(4) A session attended by three or more Members for which the purpose is to have the Department of Energy (including its contractors) or other persons or organizations brief or otherwise provide information to the Board concerning any matters within the purview of the Board under its authorizing statute, provided that the Board does not engage in deliberations that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business on such matters.
(5) A gathering of Members for the purpose of holding informal preliminary discussions or exchange of views which do not effectively predetermine official action.
(e)
Member
means an individual duly appointed and confirmed to the collegial body, known as “the Board.”
§ 1704.3
Open meetings requirement.
(a) Any meetings of the Board, as defined in § 1704.2, shall be conducted in accordance with this part. Except as provided in § 1704.4, the Board's meetings, or portions thereof, shall be open to public observation.
(b) The General Counsel or his designee will attend and monitor briefings described in § 1704.2(d) (3)-(4) and informal preliminary discussions described in § 1704.2(d)(5) to assure that those gatherings do not proceed to the point of becoming deliberations and “meetings” within the meaning of the Sunshine Act.
(c) The General Counsel or his designee will inform the Board Members if developing discussions at a briefing or gathering should be deferred until a notice of an open or closed meeting can be published in the
Federal Register,
and a meeting conducted pursuant to the Sunshine Act and these regulations.
§ 1704.4
Grounds on which meetings may be closed or information may be withheld.
Except in a case where the Board finds that the public interest requires otherwise, a meeting may be closed and information pertinent to such meeting otherwise required by §§ 1704.5, 1704.6, and 1704.7 to be disclosed to the public may be withheld if the Board properly determines that such meeting or portion thereof or the disclosure of such information is likely to:
(a) Disclose matters that are:
(1) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy; and
(2) In fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order. In making the determination that this exemption applies, the Board shall rely upon the classification assigned to a document by the Department of Energy or other originating agency;
(b) Relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Board;
(c)(1) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than 5 U.S.C. 552):
Provided,
That such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue; or
(ii) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(2) This exemption applies to Board meetings, or portions of meetings, involving deliberations regarding recommendations which, under 42 U.S.C. 2286d(b) and (h)(3), may not be made publicly available until after they have been received by the Secretary of Energy or the President, respectively; Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
(d) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(e) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(f) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(g) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which, if written, would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would;
(1) Interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(2) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(3) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(4) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source;
(5) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures; or
(6) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(h) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed action of the Board, except that this subsection shall not apply in any instance where the Board has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action, or where the Board is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final action on such proposal;
(i) Specifically concern the Board's issuance of a subpoena, or the Board's participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct, or disposition by the Board of a particular case of formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554 or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing; or
(j) Disclose other information for which the Government in the Sunshine Act provides an exemption to the open meeting requirements of that Act.
[56 FR 9609, Mar. 7, 1991, as amended at 79 FR 42181, July 21, 2014]
§ 1704.5
Procedures for closing meetings, or withholding information, and requests by affected persons to close a meeting.
(a) A majority of all Members may vote to close a meeting or withhold information pertaining to that meeting. A separate vote shall be taken with respect to any action under § 1704.4. A majority of the Board may act by taking a single vote with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular subject matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. Each Member's vote under this paragraph shall be recorded and proxies are not permitted.
(b) Any person whose interest may be directly affected if a portion of a meeting is open may request the Board to close that portion on any of the grounds referred to in § 1704.4 (e), (f), or (g). Requests, with reasons in support thereof, should be submitted to the General Counsel, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC 20004. On motion of any Member, the Board shall determine by recorded vote whether to grant the request.
(c) Within one working day of any vote taken pursuant to this section, the Board shall make available a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each Member on the question, and if a portion of a meeting is to be closed to the public a full written explanation of its action closing the meeting and a list of all persons expected to attend and their affiliation.
(d) For every closed meeting, the General Counsel of the Board shall publicly certify that, in his or her opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemption provision. If the General Counsel invokes the exemption for classified or sensitive unclassified information under § 1704.4(a), he shall rely upon the classification or designation assigned to the document containing such information by the Department of Energy or other originating agency. A copy of such certification, together with a statement setting forth the time and place of the meeting and the persons present, shall be retained by the Board as part of the transcript, recording, or minutes required by § 1704.8.
§ 1704.6
Procedures for public announcement of meetings.
(a) For each meeting, the Board shall make public announcement, at least one week before the meeting, of the:
(1) Time of the meeting;
(2) Place of the meeting;
(3) Subject matter of the meeting;
(4) Whether the meeting is to be open or closed; and
(5) The name and business telephone number of the official designated by the Board to respond to requests for information about the meeting.
(b) The one week advance notice required by paragraph (a) of this section may be reduced only if:
(1) A majority of all Members determines by recorded vote that Board business requires that such meeting be scheduled in less than seven days; and
(2) The public announcement required by paragraph (a) of this section is made at the earliest practicable time.
(c) Immediately following each public announcement required by this section, or by § 1704.7, the Board shall submit a notice of public announcement for publication in the
Federal Register.
§ 1704.7
Changes following public announcement.
(a) The time or place of a meeting may be changed following the public announcement only if the Board publicly announces such change at the earliest practicable time. Members need not approve such change.
(b) The subject matter of a meeting or the determination of the Board to open or to close a meeting, or a portion thereof, to the public may be changed following public announcement if:
(1) A majority of all Members determines by recorded vote that Board business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible; and
(2) The Board publicly announces such change and the vote of each Member thereon at the earliest practicable time.
(c) The deletion of any subject matter announced for a meeting is not a change requiring the approval of the Board under paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1704.8
Transcripts, recordings, or minutes of closed meetings.
Along with the General Counsel's certification and presiding officer's statement referred to in § 1704.5(d), the Board shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or a portion thereof, closed to the public. The Board may maintain a set of minutes in lieu of such transcript or recording for meetings closed pursuant to § 1704.4(i). Such minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any rollcall vote.
§ 1704.9
Availability and retention of transcripts, recordings, and minutes, and applicable fees.
The Board shall make promptly available to the public in the Public Reading Room the transcript, electronic recording, or minutes of the discussion of any item on the agenda or of any testimony received at a closed meeting, except for such item, or items, of discussion or testimony as determined by the Board to contain matters which may be withheld under the exemptive provisions of § 1704.4. Copies of the nonexempt portions of the transcript or minutes, or transcription of such recordings disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of transcription or duplication. If at some later time the Board determines that there is no further justification for withholding a portion of a transcript, electronic recording, or minutes or other item of information from the public which has previously been withheld, such portion or information shall be made publicly available. The Board shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or a portion thereof, closed to the public for at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Board proceeding with respect to which the meeting, or a portion thereof, was held, whichever occurs later.
§ 1704.10
Severability.
If any provision of this part or the application of such provision to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of this part or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1704.11
Nonpublic collaborative discussions.
(a)
In general.
Notwithstanding the other requirements of this part, a quorum of Members may hold a meeting that is not open to public observation to discuss official business of the Board if—
(1) No formal or informal vote or other official action is taken at the meeting;
(2) Each individual present at the meeting is a Member or an employee of the Board;
(3) At least one Member from each political party is present at the meeting, unless all Members are of the same political party at the time of the meeting; and
(4) The general counsel of the Board, or a designee of the general counsel, is present at the meeting.
(b)
Disclosure of nonpublic collaborative discussions.
(1) Except as provided by paragraph (b)(2) of this section, not later than two business days after the conclusion of a meeting described in subsection (a), the Board shall make available to the public, in a place easily accessible to the public—
(i) A list of the individuals present at the meeting; and
(ii) A summary of the matters, including key issues, discussed at the meeting, except for any matter the Board properly determines may be withheld from the public under § 1704.4.
(2) Information about matters withheld from the public. If the Board properly determines under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section that a matter may be withheld from the public under § 1704.4, the Board shall include in the summary required by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) as much general information as possible with respect to the matter.
[86 FR 48296, Aug. 30, 2021]
Pt. 1705

# PART 1705—PRIVACY ACT
Sec.
1705.01
Scope.
1705.02
Definitions.
1705.03
Systems of records notification.
1705.04
Requests by persons for access to their own records.
1705.05
Processing of requests.
1705.06
Appeals from access denials.
1705.07
Requests for correction of records.
1705.08
Appeals from correction denials.
1705.09
Disclosure of records to third parties.
1705.10
Fees.
1705.11
Exemptions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a(f).

# Source:
56 FR 47144, Sept. 18, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1705.01
Scope.
This part contains the Board's regulations implementing the Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93-579, 5 U.S.C. 552a.
§ 1705.02
Definitions.
The following terms used in these regulations are defined in the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(a):
agency, individual, maintain, record, system of records, statistical record,
and
routine use.
The Board's use of these terms conforms with the statutory definitions. References in this part to “the Act” refer to the Privacy Act of 1974.
§ 1705.03
Systems of records notification.
(a)
Public notice.
The Board has published in the
Federal Register
its systems of records. The Office of the Federal Register biennially compiles and publishes all systems of records maintained by all Federal agencies, including the Board.
(b)
Requests regarding record systems.
Any person who wishes to know whether a system of records contains a record pertaining to him or her may file a request in person or in writing. Written requests should be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC 20004. Telephone requests should be made by calling the Board at 202-208-6400, and asking to speak to the Privacy Act Officer.
§ 1705.04
Requests by persons for access to their own records.
(a)
Requests in writing.
A person may request access to his or her own records in writing by addressing a letter to: Privacy Act Officer, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC 20004. The request should contain the following information:
(1) Full name, address, and telephone number of requester,
(2) Proof of identification, which should be a copy of one of the following: Valid driver's license, valid passport, or other current identification which contains both an address and picture of the requester,
(3) The system of records in which the desired information is contained, and
(4) At the requester's option, authorization for copying expenses (see § 1705.10 below).
(b)
Requests in person.
Any person may examine his or her own records on the Board's premises. To do so, the person should call the Board's offices at 202-208-6400 and ask to speak to the Privacy Act Officer. This call should be made at least two weeks prior to the time the requester would like to see the records. During this call, the requester should be prepared to provide the same information as that listed in paragraph (a) of this section, except for proof of identification.
§ 1705.05
Processing of requests.
(a)
Requests in writing.
The Privacy Act Officer will acknowledge receipt of the request within five working days of its receipt in the Board's offices. The acknowledgment will advise the requester if any additional information is needed to process the request. Within fifteen working days of receipt of the request, the Privacy Act Officer will
provide the requested information or will explain to the requester why additional time is needed for response.
(b)
Requests in person.
Following the initial call from the requester, the Privacy Act Officer will determine (1) whether the records identified by the requester exist, and (2) whether they are subject to any exemption under § 1705.11 below. If the records exist and are not subject to exemption, the Privacy Act Officer will call the requester and arrange an appointment at a mutually agreeable time when the records can be examined. The requester may be accompanied by one person of his or her own choosing, and should state during this call whether or not a second individual will be present at the appointment. At the appointment, the requester will be asked to present identification as stated in § 1705.04(a)(2).
(c)
Excluded information.
If a request is received for information compiled in reasonable anticipation of litigation, the Privacy Act Officer will inform the requester that this information is not subject to release under the Privacy Act (
see
5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5)).
§ 1705.06
Appeals from access denials.
When access to records has been denied by the Privacy Act Officer, the requester may file an appeal in writing. This appeal should be directed to The Chairman, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue NW., suite 700, Washington, DC 20004. The appeal letter must (a) specify those denied records which are still sought, and (b) state why the denial by the Privacy Act Officer is erroneous. The Chairman or his designee will respond to such appeals within twenty working days after the appeal letter has been received in the Board's offices. The appeal determination will explain the basis for continuing to deny access to any requested records.
§ 1705.07
Requests for correction of records.
(a)
Correction requests.
Any person is entitled to request correction of a record pertaining to him or her. This request must be made in writing and should be addressed to Privacy Act Officer, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC 20004. The letter should clearly identify the corrections desired. An edited copy of the record will usually be acceptable for this purpose.
(b)
Initial response.
Receipt of a correction request will be acknowledged by the Privacy Act Officer in writing within five working days of receipt of the request. The Privacy Act Officer will endeavor to provide a letter to the requester within thirty working days stating whether or not the request for correction has been granted or denied. If the Privacy Act Officer decides to deny any portion of the correction request, the reasons for the denial will be provided to the requester.
§ 1705.08
Appeals from correction denials.
(a) When amendment of records has been denied by the Privacy Act Officer, the requester may file an appeal in writing. This appeal should be directed to The Chairman, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC 20004. The appeal letter must (1) specify the records subject to the appeal, and (2) state why the denial of amendment by the Privacy Act Officer is erroneous. The Chairman or his designee will respond to such appeals within thirty working days (subject to extension by the Chairman for good cause) after the appeal letter has been received in the Board's offices.
(b) The appeal determination, if adverse to the requester in any respect, will: (1) Explain the basis for denying amendment of the specified records, (2) inform the requester that he or she may file a concise statement setting forth reasons for disagreeing with the Chairman's determination, and (3) inform the requester of his or her right to pursue a judicial remedy under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A).
§ 1705.09
Disclosure of records to third parties.
Records subject to the Privacy Act that are requested by any person other than the individual to whom they pertain will not be made available except in the following circumstances:
(a) Their release is required under the Freedom of Information Act in accordance with the Board's FOIA regulations, 10 CFR part 1703;
(b) Prior consent for disclosure is obtained in writing from the individual to whom the records pertain; or
(c) Release is authorized by 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) (1) or (3) through (11).
§ 1705.10
Fees.
A fee will not be charged for search or review of requested records, or for correction of records. When a request is made for copies of records, a copying fee will be charged at the same rate established for FOIA requests.
See
10 CFR 1703.107. However, the first 100 pages of copying will be free of charge.
§ 1705.11
Exemptions.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k), the Board has determined that system of records DNFSB-3, “Drug Testing Program Records,” is partially exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I), and (f). The exemption pertains to portions of these records which would identify persons supplying information on drug abuse by Board employees or contractors.
Pt. 1706

# PART 1706—ORGANIZATIONAL AND CONSULTANT CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS
Sec.
1706.1
Scope; statement of policy.
1706.2
Definitions.
1706.3
Applicability.
1706.4
Head of the contracting activity.
1706.5
General rules.
1706.6
Solicitation provisions.
1706.7
Procedures.
1706.8
Waiver.
1706.9
Examples.
1706.10
Remedies.
1706.11
Organizational conflicts of interest certificate—Advisory or assistance services.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2286b(c).

# Source:
57 FR 44652, Sept. 29, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1706.1
Scope; statement of policy.
(a)
Scope.
This part sets forth the guidelines, requirements, and procedures the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board will follow in determining whether a contractor or offeror has an organizational or consultant conflict of interest (OCI) and in avoiding, neutralizing, or mitigating OCIs.
(b)
Policy.
It is the policy of the Board to identify and then avoid or mitigate organizational and consultant conflicts of interest. Normally, the Board will not award contracts to offerors who have OCIs and will terminate contracts where OCIs are identified following contract award. In exceptional circumstances, the Board reserves the right to waive conflicts of interest if it determines that such action is in the best interests of the Government, pursuant to § 1706.8, and to take such mitigating measures as it deems appropriate pursuant to such section.
§ 1706.2
Definitions.
Advisory or assistance services
means services acquired by contract to advise or assist the Board, whether with respect to its internal functions or its oversight of defense nuclear facilities, or otherwise to support or improve policy development or decisionmaking by the Board, or management or administration of the Board, or to support or improve the operation of the Board's management systems. Such services may take the form of the provision of information, advice, reports, opinions, alternatives, conclusions, recommendations, training, direct assistance, or performance of site visits, technical reviews, investigation of health and safety practices or other appropriate services.
Affiliates
means associated business concerns or individuals if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or can control the other or a third party controls or can control both.
Board
means, as the context requires, the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, its Chairman, or any other officer of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board to whom the appropriate delegation has been made under 42 U.S.C. 2286(c)(3).
Contract
means any contract, agreement, or other arrangement with the Board, except as provided in § 1706.3.
Contractor
means any person, firm, unincorporated association, joint venture, co-sponsor, partnership, corporation, or other entity, or any group of one or more of the foregoing, which is a party to a contract with the Board, and the affiliates and successors in interest of such party. The term “contractor” also includes the chief executive and directors of a party to a contract with the Board, the key personnel of such party identified in the contract, and current or proposed consultants or subcontractors to such party. The term “contractor” shall also include consultants engaged directly by the Board through the use of a contract.
Defense nuclear facility
means any United States Department of Energy (DOE) defense nuclear facility, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 2286g, subject to the Board's oversight.
Evaluation activities
means activities that involve evaluation of some aspect of defense nuclear facilities.
Mitigating
means, with respect to an organizational or consultant conflict of interest, reducing or counteracting the effects of such a conflict of interest on the Board, but without eliminating or avoiding the conflict of interest.
National Laboratories
means laboratories operated by educational institutions or business entities under management and operating contracts with DOE.
Offeror
means any person, firm, unincorporated association, joint venture, partnership, corporation, or other entity, or any group of one or more of the foregoing, submitting a bid or proposal to the Board, solicited, unsolicited or otherwise invited by the Board, to obtain a contract, and the affiliates and successors in interest of such a bidder or proposer. The term “offeror” also includes the chief executive and directors of such a bidder or proposer, the key personnel of a bidder or proposer identified in the bid or proposal, and proposed consultants or subcontractors to such bidder or proposer.
Organizational or consultant conflict of interest
means that, because of other past, present, or future planned activities or relationships, an offeror or contractor is unable, or potentially unable, to render impartial assistance or advice to the Board, or the objectivity of such offeror or contractor in performing contract work for the Board is or might be otherwise impaired, or such offeror or contractor has or would have an unfair competitive advantage. The term “organizational or consultant conflict of interest” shall include, but not be limited to, actions or situations that would preclude the award or extension of a contract under, or would be prohibited by, § 1706.5.
Potential organizational or consultant conflict of interest
means a factual situation that indicates or suggests that an actual organizational or consultant conflict of interest may exist or arise from award of a proposed contract or from continuation of an existing contract. The term is used to signify those situations that merit conflicts review prior to contract award or that must be reported to the contracting officer for conflicts review if they arise during contract performance.
Research
means any scientific, engineering, or other technical work involving theoretical analysis, exploration, or experimentation.
Subcontractor
means any subcontractor of any tier which performs work under a prime contract with the Board.
Task order contract
means a Board contract that contains a broad scope of work but does not authorize the contractor to perform specific tasks within that broad scope until the contracting officer issues task orders.
Unfair competitive advantage
means an advantage obtained by an offeror or contractor to the Board by virtue of the relationship of the offeror or contractor with the Board or access to information not available to other offerors or contractors, and recognized in appropriate legal precedent as unfair.
In determining the meaning of any provision of this part, unless the context indicates otherwise, the singular includes the plural; the plural includes the singular; the present tense includes the future tense; and words of one gender include the other gender.
§ 1706.3
Applicability.
(a)
General applicability.
This part applies to contractors and offerors only,
except as otherwise herein provided. This part shall be incorporated by reference and made a part of all Board contracts in excess of the small purchases threshold, except as provided in the last sentence of this § 1706.3(a). In addition, if determined appropriate by the contracting officer for the Board, this part may be incorporated by reference and made a part of Board contracts below the small purchases threshold, except as provided in the last sentence of this § 1706.3(a). This part does not apply to the acquisition of services, including, without limitation, consulting services, through the personnel appointment process or to Board agreements with other federal government agencies, but shall apply to Board agreements with the management and operating contractors (and subcontractors and consultants thereto) of the National Laboratories.
(b)
Subcontractors and consultants.
The requirements of this part shall also apply to subcontractors and consultants proposed for, or working on, a Board contract, in each case where the amount of the subcontract or consultant agreement under which such subcontractor or consultant is or will be working is expected to exceed $10,000, and in each other case where the contracting officer for the Board deems it appropriate to make the requirements of this part applicable to a subcontractor or consultant proposed for, or working on, a Board contract. The certificates or disclosures submitted by offerors or contractors pursuant to this part shall include certificates or disclosures from all subcontractors and consultants to contractor or offerors in those cases where this part applies by its terms to such subcontractors or consultants or has been applied to such persons by the contracting officer. Contractors and offerors shall assure that contract clauses giving effect to this § 1706.3(b), satisfactory to the contracting officer, are included in subcontracts and consultant agreements of any tier involving performance of work under a prime contract covered by this part.
[57 FR 44652, Sept. 29, 1992; 58 FR 13684, Mar. 12, 1993]
§ 1706.4
Head of the contracting activity.
The head of the contracting activity for the Board shall be the General Manager.
§ 1706.5
General rules.
(a)
Award of Contracts.
Contracts shall generally not be awarded to an offeror:
(1) For any services where the award would result in the offeror evaluating products or services it has provided to the Board, is then providing to the Board, or is then offering to provide for the Board;
(2) For evaluation activities or research related to the Board's oversight of defense nuclear facilities, where the award would result in the offeror evaluating products or services it has provided, is then providing, or is then offering to provide to DOE or to contractors or subcontractors for defense nuclear facilities; or
(3) For any other services (the acquisition of which is otherwise covered by this part), where the Board has determined, pursuant to § 1706.7, that an actual or potential OCI exists and cannot be avoided, and the Board does not waive that OCI. Paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section also apply when award would result in evaluation of products or services of another entity where the offeror has been, is, or would be substantially involved in the development of the product or performance of the service, or has other substantial involvement regarding the product or services.
(b)
Subsequent related contracts.
(1) A Board contractor under a Board contract shall normally be ineligible to participate in Board contracts or subcontracts that stem directly from the contractor's performance of work under a previous Board contract, where the Board determines that an OCI would exist because:
(i) The expectation of receiving the subsequent contract is likely to diminish the contractor's capacity to give impartial assistance and advice, or otherwise result in a biased work product; or
(ii) An offeror on the subsequent contract would have an unfair competitive
advantage by virtue of having performed the first contract.
(2) If a contractor under a Board contract prepares a complete or essentially complete statement of work or specifications in the performance of a contract, the contractor shall be ineligible to perform or participate in the initial contractual effort that is based on such statement of work or specifications. The contractor shall not incorporate its products or services in such statement of work or specifications.
(c)
National Laboratory personnel.
The Board may engage personnel of the National Laboratories who have expertise needed by the Board in the performance of its oversight responsibilities, provided that prior to each such engagement, the Board determines either:
(1) That the nature of work performed by such personnel for DOE does not pose actual or potential OCIs with respect to the particular work covered by the Board contract; or
(2) That such engagement is in the Government's best interests and that a waiver should be granted pursuant to § 1706.8. In all cases involving National Laboratory personnel, notice of the circumstances of the contract, stating the rationale for use of the personnel, shall be published in the
Federal Register.
(d)
Work for others.
During the term of any Board contract, the contractor may not enter into consulting or other contractual arrangements with other persons or entities, the result of which could give rise to an OCI with respect to the work being performed under the contract. The prime contractor shall ensure that all of its employees, subcontractors, and consultants under the contract abide by this paragraph. If the contractor has reason to believe that any proposed arrangement with other persons or entities may involve an actual or potential OCI, it shall promptly inform the Board in writing of all pertinent facts regarding such proposed arrangement. In the case of task order contracts, this paragraph applies, subject to § 1706.7(c), only to specific ongoing tasks that the contracting officer authorizes the contractor to perform.
(e)
Contractor protection of Board information that is not publicly available.
If the contractor in the performance of a Board contract obtains access to information, such as Board plans, policies, reports, studies, or financial plans, or internal data protected by the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), proprietary information, or any other data which has not been released to the public, the contractor shall not:
(1) Use such information for any private purpose until the information has been released or is otherwise made available to the public;
(2) Compete for work for the Board based on such information for a period of six months after either the contract has been completed or such information has been released or otherwise made available to the public, whichever occurs first, or submit an unsolicited proposal to the Government based on such information until one year after such information is released or otherwise made available to the public, unless a waiver permitting such action has been granted pursuant to § 1706.8; or
(3) Release the information without prior written approval of the contracting officer, unless such information has previously been released or otherwise made available to the public by the Board.
[57 FR 44652, Sept. 29, 1992; 58 FR 13684, Mar. 12, 1993]
§ 1706.6
Solicitation provisions.
(a)
Advisory or assistance services.
There shall be included in all formal Board solicitations for advisory or assistance services where the contract amount is expected to exceed $25,000 (or the then applicable small purchases threshold), a provision requiring a certificate representing whether award of the contract to the offeror would present actual or potential OCIs. Apparent successful offerors will be required to submit such certificates, but the Board may also require such a certificate to be submitted in other circumstances, such as:
(1) Where the contracting officer has identified certain offerors who have passed an initial screening and has determined that it is appropriate to request the identified offerors to file the certificate in order to expedite the award process; or
(2) In the case of modifications for additional effort under Board contracts, except those issued under the “changes” clause. If a certificate has been previously submitted with regard to the contract being modified, only an updating of such statement shall be required for a contract modification.
In addition, if determined appropriate by the contracting officer for the Board, such certificates may be required in connection with any other contracts subject to this part or in which this part has been incorporated by reference.
(b)
Marketing consultant services.
There shall further be included in all Board solicitations, except sealed bids, where the contract amount is expected to exceed $200,000, a provision requiring an organizational conflicts of interest certificate from any marketing consultants engaged by an offeror in support of the preparation or submission of an offer for a Board contract by that offeror.
[57 FR 44652, Sept. 29, 1992; 58 FR 13684, Mar. 12, 1993]
§ 1706.7
Procedures.
(a)
Pre-award disclosure and resolution of OCIs.
If a certificate under § 1706.6 indicates, or the Board otherwise learns, that actual or potential OCIs could be, or would appear to be, created by contract award to a particular offeror, the Board shall afford the affected offeror an opportunity to provide in writing all relevant facts bearing on the certificate. If the Board thereafter determines that an actual or potential OCI exists, one of the following actions shall ultimately be taken:
(1) Disqualify the offeror;
(2) Include in the contract appropriate terms and conditions which avoid the conflict, in which case no waiver is required; or
(3) Make a finding that it is in the best interests of the Government to seek award of the contract under the waiver provisions of § 1706.8, and, where reasonably possible, include contract terms and conditions or take other measures which mitigate such conflicts.
(b)
Post-award disclosure and resolution of OCIs.
(1) If, after contract award, the contractor discovers actual or potential OCIs with respect to the contract, it shall make an immediate and full disclosure in writing to the contracting officer. This statement shall include a description of the action that the contractor has taken or proposes to avoid or mitigate such conflicts.
(2) If a disclosure under this section indicates, or the Board otherwise learns, that actual or potential OCIs exist, the Board may afford the contractor an opportunity to provide all relevant facts bearing upon the problem. If at any time the Board determines that an actual or potential OCI exists, one of the following actions shall ultimately be taken:
(i) Terminate the contract, or, in the case of a task order contract, terminate the particular task;
(ii) Insist on appropriate contract terms and conditions which avoid the OCIs, in which case no waiver is required; or
(iii) Make a finding that it is in the best interests of the Government to permit the contractor to continue to perform the contract (or task) under the waiver provisions of § 1706.8, and, where reasonably possible, insist on appropriate contract terms and conditions or take other measures which mitigate the OCIs.
(c)
Task order contracts.
(1) Because a task order contract generally entails a broad scope of work, apparent successful offerors shall be required to identify in their certificates filed in accordance with § 1706.6 any actual or potential OCIs that come within the full scope of the contract. The Board may decline to award a task order contract to an offeror based upon such information or it may decline to approve performance of a particular task by the contractor if an actual or potential OCI is subsequently identified with respect to that particular task. The Board may also take the other actions identified in § 1706.7(a) to avoid or mitigate such conflicts.
(2) Contractors performing task order contracts for the Board shall disclose to the contracting officer any new
work for others they propose to undertake that may present an actual or potential OCI with regard to the performance of any work under the full scope of the Board contract. Such disclosure shall be made at least 15 days prior to the submission of a bid or proposal for the new work. The disclosure shall include the statement of work and any other information necessary to describe fully the proposed work and contemplated relationship.
(3) If the Board has issued a task order or a letter request for proposal under the contract with a contractor who has disclosed to the contracting officer that it proposes to undertake new work for persons other than the Board as described in § 1706.7(c)(2), for services in the same technical area and/or at the same defense nuclear facility that is the subject of the proposed new work (including overlap based upon generic work performed for others by the contractor), the Board shall inform the contractor that entering into a contract for the new work may result in termination by the Board of the task order contract, if the Board determines that such work would give rise to an OCI and the Board does not grant a waiver.
(d)
Decisions on OCIs.
The contracting officer shall make recommendations to the General manager regarding disqualification or actions to be taken by the Board to avoid or mitigate any actual or potential OCI.
(1) The General Manager shall have the authority to approve, modify, or disapprove such recommendations regarding avoidance of an actual or potential OCI. If an offeror or contractor disagrees with the actions approved by the General Manager and requests review of the action, the Chairman shall make the decision on the actions to be taken by the Board.
(2) Any recommended action respecting the best interests of the Government and mitigation measures to be taken with respect to an actual or potential OCI must be approved by the Chairman in conjunction with the decision to grant a waiver pursuant to § 1706.8, and any recommended action to terminate a contract or a particular task on account of an actual or potential OCI must be approved by the Chairman.
(3) Decisions on OCIs by the General Manager or the Chairman shall be made with the advice of the Office of the General Counsel.
[57 FR 44652, Sept. 29, 1992; 58 FR 13684, Mar. 12, 1993]
§ 1706.8
Waiver.
(a)
Waiver of OCIs.
The need for a waiver of any OCI in connection with the award or continuation of specific contracts may be identified either by the contracting officer for the Board or other Board employee or by a written request filed by an offeror or contractor with the contracting officer. The request may be combined with the certificate or disclosure required under §§ 1706.6 or 1706.7, or with additional statements filed under § 1706.7 regarding matters raised in the certificate or disclosure. The contracting officer shall review all of the relevant facts brought to his attention and shall bring the matter to the General Manager, who shall make a written recommendation to the Chairman of the Board regarding whether a waiver should be granted for a contract award or for continuation of an existing contract.
(b)
Criteria for Waiver of OCIs.
(1) The Chairman is authorized to waive any OCI (and the corresponding provision of § 1706.5 where applicable) upon a determination that awarding or extending the particular contract, or not terminating the particular contract, would be in the best interests of the Government. Issuance of a waiver shall ordinarily be limited to those situations in which:
(i) The work to be performed under contract is vital to the Board program;
(ii) The work cannot be satisfactorily performed except by a contractor or offeror whose interests give rise to a question of OCI; and
(iii) Contractual and/or technical review and supervision methods can be employed by the Board to mitigate the conflict.
(2) The Chairman is also authorized to waive any OCI (and the corresponding provision of § 1706.5 where
applicable), without regard to the foregoing factors, if the Chairman determines, notwithstanding the existence of the OCI, that it is in best interests of the Government to award or extend the particular contract, or not to terminate it, without compliance with § 1706.8(b)(1).
(c)
Waiver of Rules or Procedures.
The Chairman is also authorized to waive any rules or procedures contained in this part upon a determination that application of the rules or procedures in a particular situation would not be in the best interests of the Government. Any request for such a waiver must be in writing and shall describe the basis for the waiver.
(d)
Office of General Counsel.
Waivers of OCIs or of any rule or procedure contained in this part shall be made after consultation with the Office of General Counsel.
(e)
Federal Register.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1706.8(c), notice of each waiver granted under this section shall be published in the
Federal Register
with an explanation of the basis for the waiver. In the discretion of the Board, notices of instances of avoidance of OCIs may also be published in the
Federal Register.
§ 1706.9
Examples.
The examples in this section illustrate situations in which questions concerning OCIs may arise. The examples are not all inclusive, but are intended to provide offerors and contractors with guidance on how this subpart will be applied.
(a)
Circumstances
—(1)
Facts.
A Board contractor for technical assistance in the review of a safety aspect of a particular defense nuclear facility proposes to use the services of an expert who also serves on an oversight committee for a contractor of other defense nuclear facilities.
(2)
Guidance.
Assuming the work of the oversight committee has no direct or indirect relationship with the work at the facility that is the subject of the Board's contract, there would not be an OCI associated with the use of this expert in the performance of the Board contract.
(b)
Circumstances
—(1)
Facts.
A Board contractor studying the potential for a chemical explosion in waste tanks at a defense nuclear facility advises the Board that it has been offered a contract with DOE to study the chemical composition of the waste in the same tanks.
(2)
Guidance.
The contractor would be advised that accepting the DOE contract would result in termination of its performance under its contract with the Board.
(c)
Circumstances
—(1)
Facts.
The Board issues a task order under an existing contract for the evaluation of the adequacy of fire protection systems at a defense nuclear facility. The contractor then advises the Board that it is considering making an offer on a solicitation by DOE to evaluate the same matter.
(2)
Guidance.
The contractor would be advised that entering into a contract with DOE on that solicitation could result in the contract with the Board being terminated.
(d)
Circumstances
—(1)
Facts.
A firm responding to a formal Board solicitation for technical assistance provides information regarding a contract it currently has with DOE. The effort under the DOE contract is for technical assistance work at DOE facilities not subject to Board oversight and outside its jurisdiction.
(2)
Guidance.
The Board would analyze the work being performed for DOE to ensure no potential or actual conflict of interest would be created through award of the Board contract. Should the Board determine that no potential or actual conflict of interest exists, the contractor would be eligible for award. If the Board determines that a potential or actual conflict of interest would arise through a contract award, it may disqualify the firm or, if the Board determines that such action is in the best interests of the Government, the Board may waive the conflict or the rules and procedures and proceed with the award.
(e)
Circumstances
—(1)
Facts.
The Board discovers that a firm competing for a contract has a number of existing agreements with DOE in technical areas which are unrelated to the Board's oversight authority. While these contracts may not represent a potential or actual conflict of interest
regarding the substance of the technical effort, their total value constitutes a significant portion of the firm's gross revenues.
(2)
Guidance.
A conflict of interest may exist due to the firm's substantial pecuniary dependence upon DOE. Consequently, the Board may question the likelihood that the contractor would provide unbiased opinions, conclusions, and work products because of this extensive financial relationship. The Board will review and consider the extent of the firm's financial dependence on DOE, the nature of the proposed Board contract, the need by the Board for the services and expertise to be provided by the firm and the availability of such services and expertise elsewhere, and whether the likelihood of the firm's providing objective technical evaluations and opinions to the Board could be influenced in view of its DOE relationship. Based on this analysis, the Board may either determine that there is no conflict and make the award, waive the conflict if one is identified and establish procedures to mitigate it where possible, or disqualify the offeror.
(f)
Circumstances
—(1)
Facts.
The Board discovers that a firm competing for a contract has a substantial business relationship in technical areas unrelated to the Board's oversight authority with a contractor operating a defense nuclear facility under a DOE contract. Similar to the situation described in paragraph (e) of this section, the total value of the contracts with the DOE contractor constitutes more than half of the firm's gross revenues, even though those contracts do not represent a potential or actual conflict of interest regarding any of the particular matters to be covered by the contract with the Board.
(2)
Guidance.
The firm's substantial financial and business dependence upon the DOE contractor may give rise to a conflict of interest, in that the likelihood of the firm's rendering impartial, objective assistance or advice to the Board may be impaired by its extensive financial relationship with the DOE contractor. In this situation, the Board will review and consider the nature of the proposed Board contract, the need by the Board for the services and expertise to be provided by the firm and the availability of such services and expertise elsewhere. The Board will also review and consider the extent of the firm's financial dependence on the DOE contractor and whether the firm would be impartial and objective in providing technical evaluation and opinions to the Board, especially on matters in which the DOE contractor is involved, notwithstanding the relationship with the DOE contractor. Based on this analysis, the Board may determine that there is no actual conflict of interest and make the award. Alternatively, if the Board identifies a conflict that cannot be avoided, the Board may determine to waive the conflict in the best interests of the United States, with or without the establishment of procedures to mitigate the conflict, or it may disqualify the offeror.
[57 FR 44652, Sept. 29, 1992; 58 FR 13684, Mar. 12, 1993]
§ 1706.10
Remedies.
The refusal to provide the certificate, or upon request of the contracting officer the additional written statement, required by §§ 1706.6 and 1706.7 in connection with an award shall result in disqualification of the offeror for that award. The nondisclosure or misrepresentation of any relevant information may also result in the disqualification of the offeror for that award. If such nondisclosure or misrepresentation by an offeror or contractor is discovered or occurs after award, or in the event of breach of any of the restrictions contained in this part, the Board may terminate the contract for convenience or default, and the offeror or contractor may also be disqualified by the Board from consideration for subsequent Board contracts and be subject to such other remedial actions as provided by law or the contract.
[57 FR 44652, Sept. 29, 1992; 58 FR 13684, Mar. 12, 1993]
§ 1706.11
Organizational conflicts of interest certificate—Advisory or assistance services.
As prescribed in or permitted by § 1706.6(a), insert the following provision in Board solicitations:

# Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest Certificate—Advisory and Assistance Services (Oct. 1990)
(a) An organizational or consultant conflict of interest means that because of other activities or relationships with other persons, a person is unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the Government, or the person's objectivity in performing the contract work is or might be otherwise impaired, or a person has an unfair competitive advantage.
(b) In order to comply with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Letter 89-1, Conflict of Interest Policies Applicable to Consultants, the offeror shall provide the certificate described in paragraph (c) of this provision.
(c) The certificate must contain the following:
(1) Name of the agency and the number of the solicitation in question.
(2) The name, address, telephone number, and federal taxpayer identification number of the offeror.
(3) A description of the nature of the services rendered by or to be rendered on the instant contract.
(4) The name, address, and telephone number of the client or clients, a description of the services rendered to the previous client(s), and the name of a responsible officer or employee of the offeror who is knowledgeable about the services rendered to each client, if, in the 12*
months preceding the date of the certification, services were rendered to the Government or any other client (including a foreign government or person) respecting the same subject matter as the instant solicitation, or directly relating to such subject matter. The agency and contract number under which the services were rendered must also be included, if applicable.
* If approved by the head of the contracting activity, this period may be increased up to 36 months.
(5) A statement that the person who signs the certificate has made inquiry and that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, no actual or potential conflict of interest or unfair competitive advantage exists with respect to the advisory or assistance services to be provided in connection with the instant contract, or that any actual or potential conflict of interest or unfair competitive advantage that does or may exist with respect to the contract in question has been communicated in writing to the contracting officer or his or her representative; and
(6) The signature, name, employer's name, address, and telephone number of the person who signed the certificate.
(d) Persons required to certify but who fail to do so may be determined to be nonresponsible. Misrepresentation of any fact may result in suspension or debarment, as well as penalties associated with false certifications or such other provisions provided for by law or regulation.

# (End of provision)
Pt. 1707

# PART 1707—TESTIMONY BY DNFSB EMPLOYEES AND PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1707.101
Scope and purpose.
1707.102
Applicability.
1707.103
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Requests for Testimony and Production of Documents
1707.201
General prohibition.
1707.202
Factors DNFSB will consider.
1707.203
Filing requirements for demands or requests for documents or testimony.
1707.204
Service of subpoenas or requests.
1707.205
Processing demands or requests.
1707.206
Final determination.
1707.207
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
1707.208
Restrictions that apply to released records.
1707.209
Procedure when a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
1707.210
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.

# Subpart C—Schedule of Fees
1707.301
Fees.

# Subpart D—Penalties
1707.401
Penalties.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2286b(c); 44 U.S.C. 3101-3107, 3301-3303a, 3308-3314.

# Source:
66 FR 66715, Dec. 27, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1707.101
Scope and purpose.
(a) This part sets forth policies and procedures you must follow when you submit a demand or request to an employee of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (DNFSB) to produce official records and information, or provide testimony relating to official information, in connection with a legal proceeding. You must comply with
these requirements when you request the release or disclosure of official records and information.
(b) The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board intends these provisions to:
(1) Promote economy and efficiency in its programs and operations;
(2) Minimize the possibility of involving DNFSB in controversial issues not related to our functions;
(3) Maintain DNFSB's impartiality among private litigants where DNFSB is not a named party; and
(4) Protect sensitive, confidential information and the deliberative processes of DNFSB.
(c) In providing for these requirements, DNFSB does not waive the sovereign immunity of the United States.
(d) This part provides guidance for the internal operations of DNFSB. It does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, that a party may rely upon in any legal proceeding against the United States.
§ 1707.102
Applicability.
This part applies to demands and requests to employees for factual, opinion, or expert testimony relating to official information, or for production of official records or information, in legal proceedings in which the United States or the DNFSB is not a named party. However, it does not apply to:
(a) Demands upon or requests for a DNFSB employee to testify as to facts or events that are unrelated to his or her official duties or that are unrelated to the functions of DNFSB;
(b) Demands upon or requests for a former DNFSB employee to testify as to matters in which the former employee was not directly or materially involved while at the DNFSB;
(c) Requests for the release of records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, or the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a; and
(d) Congressional demands and requests for testimony or records.
[66 FR 66715, Dec. 27, 2001, as amended at 87 FR 22437, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 1707.103
Definitions.
DNFSB
means the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
DNFSB
employee or employee means:
(1) Any current or former officer or employee of DNFSB;
(2) Any contractor or contractor employee working on behalf of the DNFSB or who has performed services for DNFSB; and
(3) Any individual who is serving or has served in any advisory capacity to DNFSB, whether formal or informal.
(4) Provided, that this definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by DNFSB and who are retained or hired as expert witnesses or who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with DNFSB.
Demand
means a subpoena, or an order or other demand of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of a DNFSB employee that is issued in a legal proceeding.
General Counsel
means the General Counsel of DNFSB or a person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part.
Legal proceeding
means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.
Records or official records and information mean:
(1) All documents and materials which are DNFSB agency records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552;
(2) All other documents and materials contained in DNFSB files; and
(3) All other information or materials acquired by a DNFSB employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status.
Request
means any formal or informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been demanded by a court or other competent authority.
Testimony
means any written or oral statements, including but not limited
to depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.

# Subpart B—Requests for Testimony and Production of Documents
§ 1707.201
General prohibition.
No employee may produce official records and information or provide any testimony relating to official information in response to a demand or request without the prior, written approval of the General Counsel.
§ 1707.202
Factors DNFSB will consider.
The General Counsel, in his or her sole discretion, may grant an employee permission to testify on matters relating to official information, or produce official records and information, in response to a demand or request. Among the relevant factors that the General Counsel may consider in making this decision are whether:
(a) The purposes of this part are met;
(b) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be necessary to prevent a miscarriage of justice;
(c) DNFSB has an interest in the decision that may be rendered in the legal proceeding;
(d) Allowing such testimony or production of records would assist or hinder DNFSB in performing its statutory duties or use DNFSB resources where responding to the request will interfere with the ability of DNFSB employees to do their work;
(e) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be in the best interest of DNFSB or the United States;
(f) The records or testimony can be obtained from other sources;
(g) The demand or request is unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery or the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand or request arose;
(h) Disclosure would violate a statute, executive order or regulation;
(i) Disclosure would reveal confidential, sensitive, or privileged information, trade secrets or similar, confidential commercial or financial information, or otherwise protected information, or would otherwise be inappropriate for release;
(j) Disclosure would impede or interfere with an ongoing law enforcement investigation or proceedings;
(k) Disclosure would compromise constitutional rights;
(l) Disclosure would result in DNFSB appearing to favor one litigant over another;
(m) Disclosure relates to documents that were produced by another agency;
(n) A substantial Government interest is implicated;
(o) The demand or request is within the authority of the party making it; and
(p) The demand or request is sufficiently specific to be answered.
§ 1707.203
Filing requirements for demands or requests for documents or testimony.
You must comply with the following requirements whenever you issue demands or requests to a DNFSB employee for official records, information, or testimony.
(a) Your request must be in writing and must be submitted to the General Counsel. If you serve a subpoena on DNFSB or a DNFSB employee before submitting a written request and receiving a final determination, DNFSB will oppose the subpoena on grounds that your request was not submitted in accordance with this subpart.
(b) Your written request must contain the following information:
(1) The caption of the legal proceeding, docket number, and name and address of the court or other authority involved;
(2) A copy of the complaint or equivalent document setting forth the assertions in the case and any other pleading or document necessary to show relevance of the testimony, records, or information you seek from the DNFSB;
(3) A list of categories of records sought, a detailed description of how the information sought is relevant to the issues in the legal proceeding, and a specific description of the substance of the testimony or records sought;
(4) A statement as to how the need for the information outweighs the need
to maintain any confidentiality of the information and outweighs the burden on DNFSB to produce the records or provide testimony;
(5) A statement indicating that the information sought is not available from another source, from other persons or entities, or from the testimony of someone other than a DNFSB employee, such as a retained expert;
(6) If testimony is requested, the intended use of the testimony, a general summary of the desired testimony, and a showing that no document could be provided and used in lieu of testimony;
(7) A description of all prior decisions, orders, or pending motions in the case that bear upon the relevance of the requested records or testimony;
(8) The name, address, and telephone number of counsel to each party in the case; and
(9) An estimate of the amount of time that the requester and other parties will require with each DNFSB employee for time spent by the employee to prepare for testimony, in travel, and for attendance in the legal proceeding.
(c) The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board reserves the right to require additional information to complete your request where appropriate.
(d) Your request should be submitted at least 45 days before the date that records or testimony is required. Requests submitted in less than 45 days before records or testimony is required must be accompanied by a written explanation stating the reasons for the late request and the reasons for expedited processing.
(e) Failure to cooperate in good faith to enable the General Counsel to make an informed decision may serve as the basis for a determination not to comply with your request.
§ 1707.204
Service of subpoenas or requests.
Subpoenas or requests for official records or information or testimony must be served on the General Counsel, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC 20004-2901.
§ 1707.205
Processing demands or requests.
(a) After service of a demand or request to testify, the General Counsel will review the demand or request and, in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, determine whether, or under what conditions, to authorize the employee to testify on matters relating to official information and/or produce official records and information.
(b) The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board will process requests in the order in which they are received. Absent exigent or unusual circumstances, DNFSB will respond within 45 days from the date that we receive it. The time for response will depend upon the scope of the request.
(c) The General Counsel may grant a waiver of any procedure described by this subpart where a waiver is considered necessary to promote a significant interest of the DNFSB or the United States or for other good cause.
§ 1707.206
Final determination.
The General Counsel makes the final determination on demands and requests to employees for production of official records and information or testimony. All final determinations are within the sole discretion of the General Counsel. The General Counsel will notify the requester and the court or other authority of the final determination, the reasons for the grant or denial of the demand or request, and any conditions that the General Counsel may impose on the release of records or information, or on the testimony of a DNFSB employee.
§ 1707.207
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the testimony of DNFSB employees including, for example, limiting the areas of testimony or requiring the requester and other parties to the legal proceeding to agree that the transcript of the testimony will be kept under seal or will only be used or made available in the particular legal proceeding for which testimony was requested. The General Counsel may also require a copy of the
transcript of testimony at the requester's expense.
(b) The DNFSB may offer the employee's written declaration in lieu of testimony.
(c) If authorized to testify pursuant to this part, an employee may testify as to facts within his or her personal knowledge, but, unless specifically authorized to do so by the General Counsel, the employee shall not:
(1) Disclose classified, privileged, or otherwise protected information;
(2) Testify as an expert or opinion witness with regard to any matter arising out of the employee's official duties or the functions of DNFSB unless testimony is being given on behalf of the United States (see also 5 CFR 2635.805 for current employees).
§ 1707.208
Restrictions that apply to released records.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of official records and information, including the requirement that parties to the proceeding obtain a protective order or execute a confidentiality agreement to limit access and any further disclosure. The terms of the protective order or of a confidentiality agreement must be acceptable to the General Counsel. In cases where protective orders or confidentiality agreements have already been executed, DNFSB may condition the release of official records and information on an amendment to the existing protective order or confidentiality agreement.
(b) If the General Counsel so determines, original DNFSB records may be presented for examination in response to a demand or request, but they are not to be presented as evidence or otherwise used in a manner by which they could lose their identity as official DNFSB records, nor are they to be marked or altered. In lieu of the original records, certified copies will be presented for evidentiary purposes (see 28 U.S.C. 1733).
§ 1707.209
Procedure when a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
If a response to a demand or request is required before the General Counsel can make the determination referred to in § 1707.201, the General Counsel, when necessary, will provide the court or other competent authority with a copy of this part, inform the court or other competent authority that the demand or request is being reviewed, and seek a stay of the demand or request pending a final determination.
§ 1707.210
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
If the court or other competent authority fails to stay the demand, the employee upon whom the demand is made, unless otherwise advised by the General Counsel, will appear at the stated time and place, produce a copy of this part, state that the employee has been advised by counsel not to provide the requested testimony or produce documents, and respectfully decline to comply with the demand, citing
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951). A written response may be offered to a request, or to a demand, if permitted by the court or other competent authority.

# Subpart C—Schedule of Fees
§ 1707.301
Fees.
(a) Generally. The General Counsel may condition the production of records or appearance for testimony upon advance payment of a reasonable estimate of the costs to DNFSB.
(b) Fees for records. Fees for producing records will include fees for searching, reviewing, and duplicating records, costs of attorney time spent in reviewing the demand or request, and expenses generated by materials and equipment used to search for, produce, and copy the responsive information. Costs for employee time will be calculated on the basis of the hourly pay of the employee (including all pay, allowance, and benefits). Fees for duplication will be the same as those charged by DNFSB in its Freedom of Information Act fee regulations at 10 CFR part 1703.
(c) Witness fees. Fees for attendance by a witness will include fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules. If no such fees are prescribed, witness fees will be determined
based upon the rule of the Federal district court closest to the location where the witness will appear. Such fees will include cost of time spent by the witness to prepare for testimony, in travel, and for attendance in the legal proceeding.
(d) Payment of fees. You must pay witness fees for current DNFSB employees and any records certification fees by submitting to the General Counsel a check or money order for the appropriate amount made payable to the Treasury of the United States. In the case of testimony by former DNFSB employees, you must pay applicable fees directly to the former employee in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable statutes.
(e) Certification (authentication) of copies of records. The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board may certify that records are true copies in order to facilitate their use as evidence. If you seek certification, you must request certified copies from DNFSB at least 45 days before the date they will be needed. The request should be sent to the General Counsel. You will be charged a certification fee of $15.00 for each document certified.
(f) Waiver or reduction of fees. The General Counsel, in his or her sole discretion, may, upon a showing of reasonable cause, waive or reduce any fees in connection with the testimony, production, or certification of records.
(g) De minimis fees. Fees will not be assessed if the total charge would be $10.00 or less.

# Subpart D—Penalties
§ 1707.401
Penalties.
(a) An employee who discloses official records or information or gives testimony relating to official information, except as expressly authorized by DNFSB or as ordered by a Federal court after DNFSB has had the opportunity to be heard, may face the penalties provided in 18 U.S.C. 641 and other applicable laws. Additionally, former DNFSB employees are subject to the restrictions and penalties of 18 U.S.C. 207 and 216.
(b) A current DNFSB employee who testifies or produces official records and information in violation of this part shall be subject to disciplinary action.
Pt. 1708

# PART 1708—PROCEDURES FOR SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS
Sec.
1708.100
Authority to conduct safety investigations.
1708.101
Scope and purpose of safety investigations.
1708.102
Types of safety investigations.
1708.103
Request to conduct safety investigations.
1708.104
Confidentiality of safety investigations and privileged safety information.
1708.105
Promise of confidentiality.
1708.106
Limitation on participation.
1708.107
Powers of persons conducting formal safety investigations.
1708.108
Cooperation: Ready access to facilities, personnel, and information.
1708.109
Rights of witnesses in safety investigations.
1708.110
Multiple interests.
1708.111
Sequestration of witnesses.
1708.112
Appearance and practice before the Board.
1708.113
Right to submit statements.
1708.114
Official transcripts.
1708.115
Final report of safety investigation.
1708.116
Procedure after safety investigations.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 2286b(c); 42 U.S.C. 2286a(b)(2); 44 U.S.C. 3101-3107, 3301-3303a, 3308-3314.

# Source:
79 FR 71010, Dec. 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1708.100
Authority to conduct safety investigations.
(a) The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Board) is an independent federal agency in the executive branch of the United States Government.
(b) The Board's enabling legislation authorizes it to conduct safety investigations pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2286a(b)(2)).
§ 1708.101
Scope and purpose of safety investigations.
(a) The Board shall investigate any event or practice at a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility which the Board determines has adversely affected, or may adversely affect, public health and safety.
(b) The purpose of any Board investigation shall be:
(1) To determine whether the Secretary of Energy is adequately implementing standards (including all applicable Department of Energy orders, regulations, and requirements) at Department of Energy defense nuclear facilities;
(2) To ascertain information concerning the circumstances of such event or practice and its implications for such standards;
(3) To determine whether such event or practice is related to other events or practices at other Department of Energy defense nuclear facilities; and
(4) To provide to the Secretary of Energy such recommendations for changes in such standards or the implementation of such standards (including Department of Energy orders, regulations, and requirements) and such recommendations relating to data or research needs as may be prudent or necessary.
§ 1708.102
Types of safety investigations.
(a) The Board may initiate a preliminary safety inquiry or order a formal safety investigation.
(b) A preliminary safety inquiry means any inquiry conducted by the Board or its staff, other than a formal investigation. Where it appears from a preliminary safety inquiry that a formal safety investigation is appropriate, the Board's staff will so recommend to the Board.
(c) A formal safety investigation is instituted by an Order of Safety Investigation issued either after a recorded notational vote of Board Members or after convening a meeting in accordance with the Government in the Sunshine Act and voting in open or closed session, as the case may be.
(d) Orders of Safety Investigations will outline the basis for the investigation, the matters to be investigated, the Investigating Officer(s) designated to conduct the investigation, and their authority.
(e) The Office of the General Counsel shall have primary responsibility for conducting and leading a formal safety investigation. The Investigating Officer(s) shall report to the Board.
(f) Following a notational vote and in accordance with the Government in the Sunshine Act, the Board or an individual Board Member authorized by the Board may hold such closed or open hearings and sit and act at such times and places, and require the attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the production of such evidence as the Board or an authorized member may find advisable, or exercise any other applicable authority as provided in the Board's enabling legislation. Each Board Member shall have full access to all information relating to the matter under investigation, including attendance at closed hearings.
(g) Subpoenas in formal safety investigation hearings may be issued by the Chairman only after a notational vote of the Board. The Chairman may designate another Board Member to issue a subpoena. Subpoenas shall be served by any person designated by the Chairman, or otherwise as provided by law.
(h) A determination of a decision or action authorized to the Board by these procedures shall only be made after a notational vote of the Board with each Board Member having one vote.
§ 1708.103
Request to conduct safety investigations.
(a) Any person may request that the Board perform a preliminary safety inquiry or conduct a formal safety investigation concerning a matter within the Board's jurisdiction.
(b) Actions the Board may take regarding safety investigation requests are discretionary.
(c) The Board will offer to protect the identity of a person requesting a safety investigation to the maximum extent permitted by law.
(d) Board safety investigations are wholly administrative and investigatory in nature and do not involve a determination of criminal culpability, adjudication of rights and duties, or other quasi-judicial determinations.
§ 1708.104
Confidentiality of safety investigations and privileged safety information.
(a) Information obtained during the course of a preliminary safety inquiry or a formal safety investigation may be treated as confidential, safety privileged, and non-public by the Board and
its staff, to the extent permissible under existing law. The information subject to this protection includes but is not limited to: Identity of witnesses; recordings; statements; testimony; transcripts; emails; all documents, whether or not obtained pursuant to Board subpoena; any conclusions based on privileged safety information; any deliberations or recommendations as to policies to be pursued; and all other related investigative proceedings and activities.
(b) The Board shall have the discretion to assert the safety privilege when safety information, determined by the Board as protected from release, is sought by any private or public governmental entity or by parties to litigation who attempt to compel its release.
(c) Nothing in this section voids or otherwise displaces the Board's legal obligations with respect to the Freedom of Information Act, the Government in the Sunshine Act, or any procedures or requirements contained in the Board's regulations issued pursuant to those Acts.
§ 1708.105
Promise of confidentiality.
(a) The Investigating Officer(s) may give a promise of confidentiality to any individual who provides evidence for a safety inquiry or investigation to encourage frank communication.
(b) A promise of confidentiality must be explicit.
(c) A promise of confidentiality must be documented in writing.
(d) A promise of confidentiality may be given only as needed to ensure forthright cooperation of a witness and may not be given on a blanket basis to all witnesses.
(e) A promise of confidentiality must inform the witness that it applies only to information given to the Investigating Officer(s) and not to the same information if given to others.
§ 1708.106
Limitation on participation.
(a) A safety investigation under this rule is not a judicial or adjudicatory proceeding.
(b) No person or entity has standing to intervene or participate as a matter of right in any safety investigation under this regulation.
§ 1708.107
Powers of persons conducting formal safety investigations.
The Investigating Officer(s) appointed by the Board may take informal or formal statements, interview witnesses, take testimony, request production of documents, recommend issuance of subpoenas, recommend taking of testimony in a closed forum, recommend administration of oaths, and otherwise perform any lawful act authorized under the Board's enabling legislation in connection with any safety investigation ordered by the Board.
§ 1708.108
Cooperation: Ready access to facilities, personnel, and information.
(a) Section 2286c(a) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, requires the Department of Energy to fully cooperate with the Board and provide the Board with ready access to such facilities, personnel, and information as the Board considers necessary, including ready access in connection with a safety investigation.
(b) Each contractor operating a Department of Energy defense nuclear facility under a contract awarded by the Secretary is also required, to the extent provided in such contract or otherwise with the contractor's consent, to fully cooperate with the Board and provide the Board with ready access to such facilities, personnel, and information of the contractor as the Board considers necessary in connection with a safety investigation.
(c) The Board may make a written request to persons or entities relevant to the safety investigation to preserve pertinent information, documents, and evidence, including electronically stored information, in order to preclude alteration or destruction of that information.
§ 1708.109
Rights of witnesses in safety investigations.
(a) Any person who is compelled to appear in person to provide testimony or produce documents in connection with a safety investigation is entitled to be accompanied, represented, and advised by an attorney. Subpoenas in safety investigations shall issue only under signature of the Chairman or
any Member of the Board designated by the Chairman. Attendance and testimony shall be before the Board or a Member authorized by the Board.
(b) If an executive branch agency employee witness is represented by counsel from that same agency, counsel shall identify who counsel represents to determine whether counsel represents multiple interests in the safety investigation.
(c) Counsel for a witness may advise the witness with respect to any question asked where it is claimed that the testimony sought from the witness is outside the scope of the safety investigation, or that the witness is privileged to refuse to answer a question or to produce other evidence. For these permissible objections, the witness or counsel may object on the record to the question and may state briefly and precisely the grounds therefore. If the witness refuses to answer a question, then counsel may briefly state on the record that counsel has advised the witness not to answer the question and the legal grounds for such refusal. The witness and his or her counsel shall not otherwise object to or refuse to answer any question, and they shall not otherwise interrupt any oral examination.
(d) When it is claimed that the witness has a privilege to refuse to answer a question on the grounds of self-incrimination, the witness must assert the privilege personally.
(e) Any objections made during the course of examination will be treated as continuing objections and preserved throughout the further course of testimony without the necessity for repeating them as to any similar line of inquiry.
(f) Counsel for a witness may not interrupt the examination by making any unnecessary objections or statements on the record.
(g) Following completion of the examination of a witness, such witness may make a statement on the record, and that person's counsel may, on the record, question the witness to enable the witness to clarify any of the witness's answers or to offer other evidence.
(h) The Board or any Member authorized by the Board shall take all measures necessary to regulate the course of an investigative proceeding to avoid delay and prevent or restrain obstructionist or contumacious conduct or contemptuous language.
(i) If the Board or any Member authorized by the Board finds that counsel for a witness, or other representative, has refused to comply with his or her directions, or has engaged in obstructionism or contumacy, the Board or Member authorized by the Board may thereupon take action as the circumstances may warrant.
(j) Witnesses appearing voluntarily do not have a right to have counsel present during questioning, although the Board or Member authorized by the Board, in consultation with the Office of the General Counsel, may permit a witness appearing on a voluntary basis to be accompanied by an attorney or non-attorney representative.
§ 1708.110
Multiple interests.
(a) If counsel representing a witness appears in connection with a safety investigation, counsel shall state on the record all other persons or entities counsel represents in that investigation.
(b) When counsel does represent more than one person or entity in a safety investigation, counsel shall inform the Investigating Officer(s) and each client of counsel's possible conflict of interest in representing that client.
(c) When an Investigating Officer(s), or the Board, as the case may be, in consultation with the Board's General Counsel, has concrete evidence that the presence of an attorney representing multiple interests would obstruct or impede the safety investigation, the Investigating Officer(s) or the Board may prohibit that attorney from being present during testimony.
(d) The Board shall issue a written statement of the reasons supporting a decision to exclude counsel under this section within five working days following exclusion. The Board shall also delay the safety investigation for a reasonable period of time to permit retention of new counsel.
§ 1708.111
Sequestration of witnesses.
(a) Witnesses shall be sequestered during interviews, or during the taking
of testimony, unless otherwise permitted by the Investigating Officer(s) or by the Board, as the case may be.
(b) No witness, or counsel accompanying any such witness, shall be permitted to be present during the examination of any other witness called in such proceeding, unless permitted by the Investigating Officer(s) or the Board, as the case may be.
§ 1708.112
Appearance and practice before the Board.
(a) Counsel appearing before the Board or the Investigating Officer(s) must conform to the standards of ethical conduct required of practitioners before the Courts of the United States.
(b) The Board may suspend or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Board in any way to a person who is found:
(1) Not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others; or
(2) To have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or
(3) To have engaged in obstructionism or contumacy before the Board; or
(4) To be otherwise not qualified.
(c) Obstructionist or contumacious conduct in an investigation before the Board or the Investigating Officer(s) will be grounds for exclusion of any person from such safety investigation proceedings and for summary suspension for the duration of the investigation.
(d) At the time of the finding the Board shall issue a verbal or written statement of the reasons supporting a decision to suspend or exclude counsel for obstructionism or contumacy.
(e) A witness may have a reasonable amount of time to retain replacement counsel if original counsel is suspended or excluded.
§ 1708.113
Right to submit statements.
At any time during the course of an investigation, any person may submit documents, statements of facts, or memoranda of law for the purpose of explanation or further development of the facts and circumstances relevant to the safety matter under investigation.
§ 1708.114
Official transcripts.
(a) Official transcripts of witness testimony, whether or not compelled by subpoena to appear before a Board safety investigation, shall be recorded either by an official reporter or by any other person or means designated by the Investigating Officer(s) or the Board's General Counsel.
(b) Such witness, after completing the compelled testimony, may file a request with the Board's General Counsel to procure a copy of the official transcript of that witness's testimony. The General Counsel shall rule on the request, and may deny for good cause.
(c) Good cause for denying a witness's request to procure a transcript may include, but shall not be limited to, the protection of a trade secret, non-disclosure of confidential or proprietary business information, security-sensitive operational or vulnerability information, safety privileged information, or the integrity of Board investigations.
(d) Whether or not a request is made, the witness and his or her attorney shall have the right to inspect the official transcript of the witness's own testimony, in the presence of the Investigating Officer(s) or his designee, for purposes of conducting errata review.
(e) Transcripts of testimony are otherwise considered confidential and privileged safety information, and in no case shall a copy or any reproduction of such transcript be released to any other person or entity, except as provided in paragraph (b) above or as required under the Freedom of Information Act or the Government in the Sunshine Act, or any procedures or requirements contained in Board regulations issued pursuant to those Acts.
§ 1708.115
Final report of safety investigation.
(a) The Board will complete a final report of the safety investigation fully setting forth the Board's findings and conclusions.
(b) The final report of the safety investigation is confidential and protected by the safety privilege, and is therefore not releasable.
(c) The Board, in its discretion, may sanitize the final report of the safety investigation by redacting confidential
and safety privileged information so that the report is put in a publically releasable format.
(d) Nothing in this section voids or otherwise displaces the Board's legal obligations with respect to compliance with the Freedom of Information Act, the Government in the Sunshine Act, or any procedures or requirements contained in the Board's regulations issued pursuant to those Acts.
§ 1708.116
Procedure after safety investigations.
(a) If a formal safety investigation results in a finding that an event or practice has adversely affected, or may adversely affect, public health and safety, the Board may take any appropriate action authorized to it under its enabling statute, including, but not limited to, making a formal recommendation to the Secretary of Energy, convening a hearing, or establishing a reporting requirement.
(b) If a safety investigation yields information relating to violations of federal criminal law involving government officers and employees, the Board shall expeditiously refer the matter to the Department of Justice for disposition.
(c) If in the course of a safety investigation, a safety issue or concern is found to be outside the Board's jurisdiction, that safety issue or concern shall be referred to the appropriate entity with jurisdiction for disposition.
(d) Statements made in connection with testimony provided to the Board in an investigation are subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1001.
Pt. 1709

# PART 1709—DEBT COLLECTION PROCEDURES
Sec.
1709.101
Cross-reference to executive branch-wide debt collection regulations.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3716(b); 31 U.S.C. 3711(d)(2); 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.

# Source:
88 FR 44032, July 11, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1709.101
Cross-reference to executive branch-wide debt collection regulations.
The Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board adopts the regulations at 31 CFR parts 900 through 904 governing the administrative collection, offset, compromise, and the suspension or termination of collection activity for debts or civil claims for money, funds or property owed to the United States government as defined by 31 U.S.C. 3701(b).
Pt. 1710

# PART 1710—FEDERAL EMPLOYEE SALARY OFFSET PROCEDURES FOR THE COLLECTION OF A DEBT OWED TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1710.101
Scope.
1710.103
Definitions.
1710.105
Application.

# Subpart B—Notice, Hearing, and Salary Offset Process
1710.107
Notice requirements.
1710.109
Hearing.
1710.111
Procedures for salary offset.
1710.113
Coordinating salary offset with other agencies.
1710.115
Notice of salary offset from another agency.
1710.117
Refunds.
1710.119
Non-waiver of rights.
1710.121
Interest, penalties, and administrative charges.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514; 5 CFR part 550 subpart K.

# Source:
88 FR 64354, Sept. 19, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1710.101
Scope.
(a) This part provides procedures for the collection by administrative offset of a federal employee's salary without his/her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the federal government. This part applies to all federal employees who owe debts to the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Board) and to current employees of the Board who owe debts to other federal agencies. This part does not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his/her current pay account.
(b) These procedures do not apply to debts or claims arising under:
(1) The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.;
(2) The tariff laws of the United States; or
(3) Any case where a collection of a debt is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.
(c) These procedures do not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action where appropriate under the standards implementing the revised Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.,
31 CFR chapter IX, parts 900 through 904.
(d) This part does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or in any way questioning the amount or validity of the debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the Board. This part does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions applicable to the particular debt being collected.
(e) The Board is not limited to collection remedies contained in the revised FCCS. The FCCS is not intended to impair common law remedies.
§ 1710.103
Definitions.
Administrative charges
are those amounts assessed by the Board to cover the costs of processing and handling delinquent debts due the government.
Administrative offset
means withholding money payable by the United States Government to, or held by the government for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the United States Government.
Agency
means any agency of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the federal government, including government corporations.
Centralized salary offset computer matching
describes the computerized process used to match delinquent debt records with federal salary payment records when the purpose of the match is to identify federal employees who owe debts to the federal government.
Creditor agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed, including a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt.
Debt
and
claim
are used synonymously to refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be owed to the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another federal agency. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms “debt” and “claim” include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a state (including past-due support being enforced by a state), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Debt collection center
means the Department of the Treasury or other government agency or division designated by the Secretary of the Treasury, with authority to collect debts on behalf of creditor agencies.
Delinquent debt record
refers to the information about a debt that an agency submits to Treasury when the agency refers the debt for collection by offset in accordance with the provision of 31 U.S.C. 3716.
Disbursing official
means an official who has authority to disburse federal salary payments pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another law.
Disposable pay
means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of:
(1) Any amount required by law to be withheld;
(2) Amounts properly withheld for federal, state, or local income tax purposes;
(3) Amounts deducted as health insurance premiums;
(4) Amounts deducted as normal retirement contributions, not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage; and
(5) Amounts deducted as normal life insurance premiums, not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage.
Employee
is any individual employed by any agency of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the federal government, including government corporations.
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards jointly published by the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Justice at 31 CFR parts 900 through 904.
Hearing official
means an individual responsible for conducting any hearing with respect to the existence or amount of a debt claimed or the repayment schedule if not established by written agreement between the employee and the Board, and who renders a decision on the basis of this hearing.
Paying agency
means the agency that employs the individual who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his/her current pay.
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.
Treasury
means the Department of the Treasury.
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law.
§ 1710.105
Application.
The regulations in this part are to be followed when:
(a) The Board is owed a debt by an individual currently employed by another federal agency;
(b) The Board is owed a debt by an individual who is a current employee of the Board; or
(c) The Board employs an individual who owes a debt to another federal agency.

# Subpart B—Notice, Hearing, and Salary Offset Process
§ 1710.107
Notice requirements.
(a) Deductions under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 shall not be made unless the creditor agency provides the employee with written notice that he/she owes a debt to the Federal government a minimum of 30 calendar days before salary offset is initiated. When the Board is the creditor agency, this notice of intent to offset an employee's salary shall be hand-delivered at work, or sent by registered mail, return receipt requested, to the employee's most current address that is available to the Board. The written notice will contain:
(1) A statement that the debt is owed and an explanation of its origin, nature, and amount;
(2) The creditor agency's intention to collect the debt by deducting from the employee's current disposable pay account until the debt and all accumulated interest are paid in full;
(3) The amount and frequency of the intended deduction (stated as a fixed dollar amount or as a percentage of pay, not to exceed 15 percent of disposable pay) and the intention to continue the deduction until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved;
(4) An explanation of interest, penalties, and administrative charges, including a statement that these charges will be assessed unless excused in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards at 31 CFR parts 900 through 904;
(5) The employee's right to inspect and copy government records pertaining to the debt or, if the employee or his or her representative cannot personally inspect the records, to request and receive a copy of these records;
(6) If not previously provided, the opportunity (under terms agreeable to the Board) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset (31 CFR 901.2) (the agreement must be in writing, signed by the employee and the Board, and documented in the Board's files);
(7) The employee's right to a hearing conducted by an official arranged for by the Board (an administrative law judge, or alternatively, a hearing official not under the control of the head of the agency) if a petition is filed as prescribed in § 1710.109;
(8) The methods and time period for petitioning for hearings;
(9) A statement that the timely filing of a petition for a hearing will stay the
commencement of collection proceedings;
(10) A statement that a final decision on the hearing will be issued not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(11) A statement that any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to:
(i) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under 5 U.S.C. chapter 75, 5 CFR part 752, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(ii) Penalties under the False Claims Act, sections 3729-3731 of title 31, United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority; or
(iii) Criminal penalties under sections 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 of title 18, United States Code or any other applicable statutory authority.
(12) A statement of other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made; and
(13) Unless there are contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, a statement that amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee.
(b) Entitlement to hearing:
(1) An employee who has received a notice under paragraph (a) that his or her debt will be collected by means of salary offset may request a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt.
(2) If a hearing is given, the employee is entitled to receive a written decision from the official holding the hearing on the following issues:
(i) the determination of the creditor agency concerning the existence or amount of the debt; and
(ii) The repayment schedule, if it was not established by written agreement between the employee and the creditor agency.”
(c) Exceptions to entitlement to notice, hearing, written responses, and final decisions:
(1) Any adjustment to pay arising out of any employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(2) A routine intra-agency adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment, and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and point of contact for contesting such adjustment; or
(3) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting such adjustment.
§ 1710.109
Hearing.
(a)
Request for hearing.
An employee shall file a petition for a hearing in accordance with the instructions outlined in the creditor agency's notice of salary offset.
(1) If the Board is the creditor agency, a hearing may be requested by filing a written petition stating why the employee disputes the existence or amount of the debt or the repayment schedule if it was not established by written agreement between the employee and the Board. The employee shall sign the petition and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses, if any, which the employee believes support his or her position. The petition for a hearing must be received no later than fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the notice of offset unless the employee can show that the delay in meeting the deadline date was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice of the time limit (unless he or she was otherwise aware of it).
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Failure to submit timely request for hearing.
If the employee fails to submit a request for hearing within the time
period described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the employee will have waived the right to a hearing, and salary offset may be initiated. The Board, however, shall accept a late request for hearing if the employee can show that the late request was the result of circumstances beyond the employee's control or because of a failure to receive actual notice of the filing deadline.
(c)
Hearing official.
The Board must obtain the services of a hearing official who is not under the supervision or control of the Board. The Board may contact the Chief Financial Officer to request a hearing official.
(d)
Notice of hearing.
After the employee requests a hearing, the designated hearing official shall inform the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. For oral hearings, the notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing. For paper hearings, the notice shall notify the employee of the date by which he or she should submit written arguments to the designated hearing official. The hearing official shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation in support of the employee's position. The hearing official shall schedule a new hearing date if requested by both parties. The hearing official shall give both parties reasonable notice of the time and place of a rescheduled hearing.
(e)
Oral hearing.
The hearing official will conduct an oral hearing if he or she determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (for example, when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). The hearing need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing, but may be conducted in a manner determined by the hearing official, including but not limited to:
(1) Informal conferences with the hearing official, in which the employee and agency representative will be given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;
(2) Informal meetings with an interview of the employee by the hearing official; or
(3) Formal written submissions, with an opportunity for oral presentation.
(f)
Paper hearing.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make the determination based upon a review of the available written record, including any documentation submitted by the employee in support of his or her position.
(g)
Failure to appear or submit documentary evidence.
In the absence of good cause shown (for example, excused illness), if the employee fails to appear at an oral hearing or fails to submit documentary evidence as required for a paper hearing, the employee will have waived the right to a hearing, and salary offset may be initiated. Further, the employee will have been deemed to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice of intent to offset. If the Board's representative fails to appear at an oral hearing, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled and will make his or her determination based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentary evidence submitted by both parties.
(h)
Burden of proof.
The Board will have the initial burden to prove the existence and amount of the debt. Thereafter, if the employee disputes the existence or amount of the debt, the employee must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that no debt exists or that the amount of the debt is incorrect. In addition, the employee may present evidence that the proposed terms of the repayment schedule are unlawful, would cause a financial hardship to the employee, or that collection of the debt may not be pursued due to operation of law.
(i)
Record.
The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of any hearing provided by this part. Witnesses will testify under oath or affirmation in oral hearings.
(j)
Date of decision.
The hearing official shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for hearing was received by the Board. If the employee requests a delay in the proceedings, the deadline for the decision may be postponed by
the number of days by which the hearing was postponed. When a decision is not timely rendered, the Board shall waive penalties applied to the debt for the period beginning with the date the decision is due and ending on the date the decision is issued. The written decision must include:
(1) A statement of the facts presented to demonstrate the nature and origin of the alleged debt;
(2) The hearing official's analysis, findings, and conclusions;
(3) The amount and validity of the debt; and
(4) The repayment schedule, where appropriate.
§ 1710.111
Procedures for salary offset.
(a)
Determination of disposable pay.
The Board will determine an employee's disposable pay (as defined in § 1710.103) and will implement salary offset as described in paragraph (c) of this section, or when requested by another agency, as described in § 1710.113(c). If the debtor is not employed by the Board, the Board will request the agency employing the debtor to determine the amount of the employee's disposable pay and implement salary offset upon request.
(b)
When salary offset begins.
Deductions will begin within three official pay periods following receipt of the creditor agency's request for offset.
(c)
Amount of salary offset.
The amount to be offset from each salary payment will be up to 15 percent of a debtor's disposable pay, as follows:
(1) If the amount of the debt is equal to or less than 15 percent of the disposable pay, such debt generally will be collected in one lump sum payment;
(2) Installment deductions will be made over a period of no greater than the anticipated period of employment. An installment deduction will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount. An installment deduction may be less than 15 percent of disposable pay if the creditor agency has determined that smaller deductions are appropriate based on the employee's ability to pay.
(d)
Final salary payment.
After the employee has separated either voluntarily or involuntarily from the payment agency, the p]ayment agency may make a lump sum deduction exceeding 15 percent of disposable pay from any final salary or other payments pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716 in order to satisfy the debt.
(e)
Multiple debts.
In instances where two or more creditor agencies are seeking salary offset, or where two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, the Board's finance office may, at its discretion, determine whether one or more debts should be offset simultaneously within the 15 percent limitation.
(f)
Precedence of debts owed to the Board.
For Board employees, debts owed to the Board generally take precedence over debts owed to other agencies. In the event that a debt to the Board is certified while an employee is subject to a salary offset to repay another agency, the Board's finance office may decide whether to have that debt repaid in full before collecting its claim or whether changes should be made in the salary deduction being sent to the other agency. If debts owed to the Board can be collected in one pay period, the finance office may suspend the salary offset to the other agency for that pay period in order to liquidate the Board debt.
(g)
Order of debt collection.
When an employee owes two or more debts, the best interests of the government shall be the primary consideration in determining the order of debt collection. The Board's finance office, in making this determination, will be guided primarily by the statute of limitations that affects the collection of the debt(s).
§ 1710.113
Coordinating salary offset with other agencies.
(a)
Responsibility of the Board as the creditor agency.
The Chairperson or his or her designee shall coordinate debt collections with other agencies and shall, as appropriate:
(1) Arrange for a hearing or special review upon proper petitioning by a federal employee; and
(2) Prescribe, upon consultation with the General Counsel, such additional practices and procedures as may be
necessary to carry out the intent of this regulation.
(3) The designated salary offset coordinator will be responsible for:
(i) Ensuring that each notice of intent to offset is consistent with the requirements of §§ 1710.107 and 1710.111 of this part;
(ii) Ensuring that each certification of debt that is sent to a paying agency is consistent with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section;
(iii) Obtaining hearing officials; and
(iv) Ensuring that hearings are properly scheduled.
(b)
Requesting recovery from current paying agency.
Upon completion of the procedures established in these regulations and pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514, the Board must:
(1) Certify, in writing, to the paying agency that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt, the date on which payment(s) is due, the date the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, and that the Board's regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514 have been approved by the Office of Personnel Management;
(2) Advise the paying agency of the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment and the number and commencing date of the installments (if a date other than the next officially established pay period is required);
(3) Advise the paying agency of the action(s) taken under 5 U.S.C. 5514(b) and give the date(s) action(s) were taken (unless the employee has consented to the salary offset in writing or signed a statement acknowledging receipt of the required procedures and the written consent or statement is forwarded to the paying agency);
(4) Submit a debt claim certification containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section and an installment agreement (or other instruction on the payment schedule), if applicable, to the paying agency; and
(5) Submit the debt claim to the paying agency for collection if the employee is in the process of separating, and has not received a final salary check, or other final payment(s) from the paying agency. The Board must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before the collection can be made.
(c)
Separated employee.
If the employee is already separated and all payments due from his or her former paying agency have been paid, the Board may request, unless otherwise prohibited, that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (5 CFR 831.1801
et seq.
or 5 CFR 845.401
et seq.
), or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt (31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS).
(d)
Employee transfer.
When an employee transfers from one paying agency to another paying agency, the Board is not required to repeat the due process procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this subpart to resume the collection. The Board will submit a properly certified claim to the new paying agency and will subsequently review the debt to verify that the collection is continued by the new paying agency.
§ 1710.115
Notice of salary offset from another agency.
(a)
Complete claim.
When the Board receives a certified claim from a creditor agency, deductions should be scheduled to begin at the next officially established pay interval. The Board's finance office will provide the employee with a notice that contains:
(1) A statement that the Board has received a certified debt claim from the creditor agency;
(2) The amount of the debt claim;
(3) The date salary offset deductions will begin;
(4) The amount of such deductions; and
(5) A copy of the notice received from the creditor agency.
(b)
Notice of Claim.
The Board's finance office will provide a copy of the notice to the creditor agency and advise the creditor agency of the dollar amount to be offset and the pay period when the offset will begin.
(c)
Incomplete claim.
When the Board receives an incomplete certification of debt from a creditor agency, it must return the debt claim with notice that procedures under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 10 CFR 1710.113 must be followed and a properly certified debt claim received
before action will be taken to collect from the employee's current pay account.
(d)
Review.
The Board will not review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.
(e)
Employees who transfer from one paying agency to another.
If, after the creditor agency has submitted the debt claim to the Board, the employee transfers from the Board to a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the Board will certify the total amount collected on the debt. One copy of the certification will be furnished to the employee and one copy to the creditor agency, along with notice of the employee's transfer.
§ 1710.117
Refunds.
(a) The Board will refund promptly any amounts deducted to satisfy debts owed to the United States when the debt is waived, found not owed to the United States, or when directed by an administrative or judicial order.
(b) Unless required or permitted by law or contract, refunds under this section may not bear interest.
§ 1710.119
Non-waiver of rights.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any part of a debt collected under these regulations will not be construed as a waiver of any rights that the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law, unless there are statutes or contracts to the contrary.
§ 1710.121
Interest, penalties, and administrative charges.
Charges may be assessed for interest, penalties, and administrative charges in accordance with the FCCS, 31 CFR 901.9.
PARTS 1711-1799 [RESERVED]
10 CFR Ch. XVIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission

# CHAPTER XVIII—NORTHEAST INTERSTATE LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE COMMISSION
Part
Page
1800
Declaration of Party State Eligibility for Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact
1101
1801-1899
[Reserved]
Pt. 1800

# PART 1800—DECLARATION OF PARTY STATE ELIGIBILITY FOR NORTHEAST INTERSTATE LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE COMPACT
Sec.
1800.10
Purpose and scope.
1800.11
Definitions.
1800.12
Procedures for declaring a state eligible for membership in the Compact.
1800.13
Conditions for becoming an eligible party state.
1800.14
Modification to and enforcement of the rules in this part.

# Authority:
Sec. 227, Art. IV(i)(7), Art. VII(e), Pub. L. 99-240, 99 Stat. 1842, 1914, 1921-1922.

# Source:
65 FR 30835, May 15, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1800.10
Purpose and scope.
Pursuant to Articles IV.i.(1), (7), (15), and VII.e. of the Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact (enacted by the “Omnibus Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact Consent Act of 1985,” Public Law 99-240, 99 Stat. 1842, Title I) (the “Compact”), the Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (the “Commission”) establishes through this part the conditions that it deems necessary and appropriate to be met by a state requesting eligibility to become a party state to this Compact. The Commission shall apply these conditions to evaluate the petition of any state seeking to be eligible to become a party state pursuant to Article VII of the Compact.
§ 1800.11
Definitions.
The definitions contained in Article II of the Compact and Article I.B. of the Commission's By Laws shall apply throughout this part. For the purposes of this part, additional terms are defined as follows:
(a)
By Laws
refers to the Commission's By Laws as adopted and amended by the Commission pursuant to Article IV.c. and Article IV.i.(7) of the Compact, most recently amended on December 10, 1998, and dated July 1999;
(b)
Person
means an individual, corporation, business enterprise or other legal entity, either public or private, and expressly includes states;
(c)
Nuclear power station
means any facility holding a license from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission under 10 CFR Part 50.
(d)
Existing party states
means Connecticut and New Jersey collectively.
§ 1800.12
Procedures for declaring a state eligible for membership in the Compact.
(a) Any state seeking to become an eligible state under the Compact shall submit to the Chairman of the Commission six copies of a petition to become an eligible state. The petition shall discuss each of the conditions specified in § 1800.13 and shall:
(1) Affirm that the petitioning state fully satisfies each condition; or
(2) Explain why the petitioning state does not or cannot fully satisfy any particular condition.
(b) Upon receipt of a petition from any state seeking to become an eligible state under the Compact, the Commission shall publish a notice in accordance with Article I.F.1. of the By Laws and shall initiate an adjudicatory proceeding to act on the petition. Any person may submit written comments on a petition, and all such comments must be received by the Commission within 30 days of notice that a petition has been submitted.
(c) The Commission shall evaluate the petition against the conditions for declaration of an eligible state specified in § 1800.13. As part of the proceeding to evaluate a petition to become an eligible state, the Commission may, in its discretion, conduct a hearing pursuant to Article IV.i.(6) of the Compact and Article V.F.1. of the Commission's By-Laws. For good cause shown, the Commission may issue an order shortening the notice period for hearings provided in Article I.F.1. of the By Laws to a period of not less than ten days.
(d) After review of the petition and after any hearing, if held, the Commission shall issue an order accepting or rejecting the petition or accepting the petition with conditions. If the Commission accepts the petition without conditions, the petitioning state shall be declared an eligible state and shall become a new party state upon passage of the Compact by its state legislature,
repeal of all statutes or statutory provisions that pose unreasonable impediments to the capability of the state to satisfy the conditions for eligibility (as determined by the Commission) and payment of (or arrangement to pay) the fee specified in Article IV.j.(1). If the Commission accepts the petition with conditions, the petitioning state may become an eligible state by satisfying all of the conditions in the Commission's order and providing an amended petition incorporating its compliance with all of the conditions in this subpart and in the Commission's order. The Commission will consider the amended petition as part of the original adjudicatory proceeding and will issue a new order accepting or rejecting the amended petition.
(e) A state that submits a petition for declaration as an eligible state that is rejected by the Commission may submit a new petition at any time. The Commission will consider the new petition without reference to the prior petition but may use evidence obtained in any prior proceeding to evaluate the new petition.
(f) The Commission's consideration of a petition for declaration of an eligible state shall be governed by the Compact, the Commission's By Laws, and this part.
§ 1800.13
Conditions for becoming an eligible party state.
The Commission shall evaluate a petition to become an eligible party state on the basis of the following conditions and criteria:
(a) To be eligible for Compact membership, a state must agree that it will be the voluntary host state upon admission to the Compact and will continue to be the voluntary host state for a least that period of time until all currently licensed nuclear power stations within the region have been fully decommissioned and their licenses (including any licenses for storage of spent nuclear fuel under 10 CFR Part 72) have been terminated.
(b) To be eligible for Compact membership, a state must agree that, so long as the petitioning state remains within the Compact, it will be the sole host state.
(c) To be eligible for Compact membership, a state must warrant the availability of a regional disposal facility that will accommodate 800,000 cubic feet of waste from generators located within the borders of the existing party states.
(d) To be eligible for Compact membership, a state must agree to establish a uniform fee schedule for waste disposal at the regional disposal facility that shall apply to all generators within the region. That uniform fee schedule, including all surcharges (except new surcharges imposed pursuant to Article V.f.3. of the Compact), shall not exceed the average fees that generators within the existing party states paid for disposal at the Barnwell, South Carolina, facility at the end of calendar year 1999, adjusted annually based on an acceptable inflation index.
(e) To be eligible for Compact membership, a state must agree with the existing states that regional generators shall be permitted to process or dispose of waste at sites outside the Compact boundaries based solely on the judgment and discretion of each regional generator.
(f) To be eligible for Compact membership, a state must agree with the existing states that the Commission may authorize importation of waste from non-regional generators for the purpose of disposal only if the host state approves and such importation does not jeopardize the warranted availability of 800,000 cubic feet of disposal capacity for waste produced by generators within the existing party states. A new party state must agree that regional generators shall not pay higher fees than non-regional generators and that all books and records related to the establishment or collection of fees shall be available for Commission review.
(g) To be eligible for Compact membership, in addition to the express limitations on non-host state and Commission liability provided in the Compact, a state must agree to indemnify the Commission or the existing party states for any damages incurred solely because of the new state's membership in the Compact and for any damages associated with any injury to persons or property during the institutional
control period as a result of the radioactive waste and waste management operations of any regional facility. The petitioning state must agree that this indemnification obligation will survive the termination of the petitioning state's membership in the Compact.
(h) To be eligible for Compact membership, a state must agree that any incentive payments made by the existing party states as an inducement for a state to join the Compact will be returned to the existing party states, with interest, on a pro rata basis if, for any reason, the regional disposal facility ceases to be available to generators in the existing party states for a period of more than six months (other than periods that have been expressly approved and authorized by the Commission) or is unavailable for disposal of 800,000 cubic feet of waste from generators within the borders of the existing states. In the event of such unavailability, the new party state must agree to return the incentive payments based on the following schedule:
(1) 75% of the incentive payment if the regional facility becomes unavailable prior to January 1, 2002;
(2) 50% of the incentive payment if the regional facility becomes unavailable on or after January 1, 2002, and prior to January 1, 2004;
(3) 30% of the incentive payment if the regional facility becomes unavailable on or after January 1, 2004, and prior to January 1, 2006;
(4) 20% of the incentive payment if the regional facility becomes unavailable on or after January 1, 2006, and prior to January 1, 2009;
(5) 10% of the incentive payment if the regional facility becomes unavailable on or after January 1, 2009, and prior to the time when all currently licensed nuclear power stations within the region have been fully decommissioned and their licenses (including any licenses for storage of spent nuclear fuel under 10 CFR Part 72) have been terminated.
(i) To be eligible for Compact membership, a state must agree with the existing states that once a new party state has been admitted to membership in the Compact pursuant to the rules in this part, declaration of any other state as an eligible party state will require the unanimous consent of all members of the Commission.
§ 1800.14
Modification to and enforcement of the rules in this part.
(a) Because of the importance of the conditions for declaration of an eligible state under the Compact, the rules in this part may only be modified, amended, or rescinded after a public hearing held pursuant to Article IV.i.(6) of the Compact and Article V.F.1. of the Commission's By Laws and by a unanimous vote of all members of the Commission.
(b) Any party state may enforce the rules in this part by bringing an action against or on behalf of the Commission in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia pursuant to Article IV.n. of the Compact.
(c) If, for any reason, any portion of the rules in this part shall be declared invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of the rules in this part shall remain in full force and effect.
PARTS 1801-1899 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
10 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
10 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter II
501.181 (c)(1) revised
830
590 Policy statement
52237
601.400 (a), (b), and (e) revised
830
601 Appendix A amended
830
Chapter III
820.81 Amended
830
824.1 Amended
830
824.4 (c) revised
830
830 Revised
66205
851.5 (a) amended
831
851 Appendix B amended
831
Chapter X
1004 Authority citation revised
14768
1004.13 Added
14768
1013.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
831
1017.29 (c) revised
831
1021.400—1021.410 (Subpart D) Appendices B and C amended; eff. 1-4-21
78205
1050.303 (d) amended
831
2021
10 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter II
501.181 (c)(1) revised
2956
590 Policy statement
2243
601.400 (a), (b), and (e) revised
2956
601 Appendix A amended
2956
609 Revised
3750
611.2 Revised
3761
Chapter III
820.81 Amended
2956
824.1 Amended
2956
824.4 (c) revised
2956
851.5 (a) amended
2956
851 Appendix B amended
2956
Chapter X
1013.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
2957
1017.29 (c) revised
2957
1050.303 (d) amended
2957
1061 Added
456
1061 Regulation at 86 FR 456 eff. date delayed to 3-21-21
7799
1061 Regulation at 86 FR 456 eff. date further delayed to 6-17-21
14807
1061 Regulation at 86 FR 456 withdrawn
29937
Chapter XVII
1704 Authority citation revised
48296
1704.11 Added
48296
1704.11 Regulation at 86 FR 48296 eff. date confirmed
57549
2022
10 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter II
501.181 (c)(1) revised
1064
601.400 (a), (b), and (e) revised
1064
601 Appendix A amended
1064
626 Revised
64372
Chapter III
707 Authority citation revised
49978
707.7 (a)(2) and (b)(2)(iii) through (v) revised; (b)(2)(vi) added
49978
707.14 (e) revised
49979
820.81 Amended
1064
824.1 Amended
1064
824.4 (c) revised
1064
851.5 (a) amended
1064
851 Appendix B amended
1064
Chapter X
1013.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
1065
1017.29 (c) revised
1065
1050.303 (d) amended
1065
Chapter XVII
1707.102 Introductory text revised
22437
1707.102 Regulation at 87 FR 22437 eff. date confirmed
35862
2023
10 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter II
501.181 (c)(1) revised
2193
590 Policy statement
25272
601.400 (a), (b), and (e) revised
2193
601 Appendix A amended
2193
602.4 (a) amended
41292
602.7 (c) amended
41292
602.10 (b) amended
41292
602.16 Amended
41292
609 Revised; interim
34428
Chapter III
710.8 (d) amended
41292
710.9 (h) amended
41292
710.28 (c)(2) and (3) amended
41292
710.29 (a) and (b) amended
41292
710.31 (b)(1) through (3) amended
41292
710.34 Amended
41292
712.3 Amended
41292
712.4 Amended
41292
712.10 (b) amended
41292
712.12 (c)(1) and (d) introductory text amended
41292
712.14 (f)(1) and (3) amended
41292
712.23 (a), (b) introductory text, and (c) amended
41292
712.24 (a) amended
41292
712.34 (a), (b) introductory text, (c), and (d) amended
41292
712.35 Heading and introductory text amended
41292
712.36 (d)(1) and (3) amended
41292
725.1 Amended
41292
725.3 (d) revised
41292
725.4 Amended
41292
725.5 Amended
41293
725.7 Amended
41292
725.11 (a) amended
41293
725.13 Amended
41292
725.21 (a) amended
41292
725.23 (b) and (c)(4) introductory text amended
41292
725.24 Introductory text amended
41292
725.25 (b) amended
41292
725.28 Amended
41292
725.29 Amended
41292
725.30 Amended
41292
810 Authority citation revised
1979
810.1 (d) added
1979
810.15 (c) added
1979
810 Appendix A amended
8219
820.81 Amended
2193
824.1 Amended
2193
824.4 (c) revised
2194
835.1 (b)(6) amended
41293
850.10 (b)(2) amended
41293
850.39 (g) amended
41293
851.2 (d) revised; eff. 1-16-24
86815
851.3 (a) amended
41293
851.3 Amended; eff. 1-16-24
86815
851.5 (a) amended
2194
851.7 (b) amended; eff. 1-16-24
86815
851.11 (b)(2) amended
41293
851.20 (b)(5) amended
41293
851.23 (a)(2), (3), (4), (7), (9), and (b) revised; eff. 1-16-24
86815
851.27 (a) revised; eff. 1-16-24
86816
851.30 (a) amended
41293
851.31 (a)(1) through (3), (b) introductory text, (c)(5) amended
41293
851.32 (a)(1) and (c)(1) revised; (a)(2), (4), (c)(2)(i), and (ii) amended
41293
851.34 (a) and (c) amended
41294
851.40 (a) revised; (b) through (e) and (h) through (k) amended
41294
851.41 (a), (b) introductory text, and (1) amended
41294
851.42 (a) and (b)(4) amended
41294
851.43 (a) and (b) amended
41294
851.44 (a) amended
41294
851.45 (a) introductory text and (b) amended
41294
851 Appendix B amended
2194, 41294
Chapter X
1013.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
2194
1016.4 Amended
41294
1016.19 (a) and (c) amended
41294
1017.5 (c) amended
41294
1017.13 Amended
41294
1017.29 (c) revised
2194
1045.15 Amended
41294
1045.20 Amended
41294
1045.30 Amended
41294
1045.45 (b) introductory text amended
41294
1045.55 (d) amended
41294
1045.60 Amended
41294
1045.80 (a) amended
41294
1045.80 Correction: (a) amended
82238
1045.85 (a)(1) and (2) amended
41294
1045.100 (b) amended
41294
1045.105 (b) and (c) amended
41295
1045.110 (c)(1) and (5) amended
41295
1045.180 (b)(1), (2), (d), (e)(1), and (2) amended
41295
1045.180 Correction: (b)(2), (d), (e)(1), and (2) amended
82238
1045.190 (b) amended
41295
1045.210 (a) and (b) introductory text amended
41295
1045.210 Correction: (a) amended
82238
1045.215 (a) and (b) amended
41295
1045.215 Correction: (a) and (b) amended
82238
1045.220 (a) and (b) amended
41295
1045.220 Correction: (a) and (b) amended
82238
1046.2 (c) through (e) amended
41295
1046.3 Amended
41295
1046.4 (a)(1) introductory text, (iv), (2), (3), (b) introductory text, (d)(1) introductory text, (2), and (e) through (g) amended
41295
1046.5 (c) amended
41295
1046.13 (b)(3), (f), and (g)(1)(i) amended
41295
1046.15 (c) introductory text, (1) through (3), (4) introductory text, (iii), (5), (6) introductory text, (7), (8), and (d) amended
41295
1046.17 (k)(6) amended
41295
1050.303 (d) amended
2194
Chapter XVII
1709 Added
44032
1709 Regulation at 88 FR 44032 eff. date confirmed
64353
1710 Added; interim
64354
1710 Regulation at 88 FR 64353 confirmed
81341
2024
10 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter II
501.181 (c)(1) revised
1028, 105406
601.400 (a), (b), and (e) revised
1028, 105406
601 Appendix A amended
1028, 105406
611 Authority citation revised
33202
611.1 Revised
33202
611.2 Amended
33203
611.3 Heading, introductory text, and (a) revised
33203
611.4 Added
33203
611.100 (a)(1) revised
33203
612 Added; interim
871
612 Regulation at 89 FR 871 confirmed
54339
Chapter III
Chapter III Notification
37079
710 Heading and authority citation revised
59595
710.1 Revised
59595
710.2 Revised
59595
710.3 Removed
59595
710.4 Revised
59595
710.5 Amended
59595
710.6 (a)(1) revised; (c) amended
59596
710.7 (d) amended
59596
710.8 (a) amended
59596
710.9 (e) revised; (f) amended
59596
710.20 Amended
59596
710.21 (b)(7) and (12)(iii) amended; (c)(1) and (2) revised
59596
710.22 (c)(4) revised
59596
710.25 (c) amended; (e) and (f) revised
59596
710.26 (a) amended; (d) revised
59597
710.27 (b) amended
59597
710.28 (a)(4) amended
59597
710.29 (c) amended
59597
710.31 (b)(4) through (6) revised
59597
710 Appendix A removed
59597
810.15 (c) introductory text revised
1028, 105406
820.81 Amended
1029, 105407
824.1 Amended
1029, 105407
824.4 (c) revised
1029, 105407
851.5 (a) amended
1029, 105407
851 Appendix B amended
1029, 105407
900 Revised
35367
955 Removed
33204
Chapter X
1008 Authority citation revised
43736
1008.12 (b)(1)(ii)(N) added; eff. 1-16-25
101849
1008.12 (b)(2)(ii)(Q) added; eff. 1-16-25
101854
1008.22 Heading revised; (a) and (b) amended; (c) through (e) added
43736
1013.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
1029, 105407
1017.29 (c) revised
1029, 105407
1021 Technical correction
41300
1021.400—1021.410 (Subpart D) Appendix B amended
34093
1021.400—1021.410 (Subpart D) Appendix C and Appendix D amended
34094
1021.400—1021.410 (Subpart D) Correction: Appendix B amended
45564
1050.303 (d) amended
1029, 105408
Chapter XVII
1703.107 (b)(1) amended; (b)(2)(i) through (iii) and (6) revised
73260
○
