(b) Evidence of age is also required from a person who applies for a spouse's or divorced spouse's, widow's, widower's, surviving divorced spouse's, parent's, or child's annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act, or for Medicare coverage under title XVIII of the Social Security Act.
§ 219.21
Types of evidence to prove age.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
The best type of evidence to prove a claimant's age is—
(1) A birth certificate recorded before age 5;
(2) A church record of birth or baptism recorded before age 5; or
(3) Notification of registration of birth made before age 5.
(b)
Other evidence of age.
If an individual cannot obtain preferred evidence of age, he or she will be asked to submit other convincing evidence to prove age. The other evidence may be one or more of the following records, with the records of highest value listed first:
(1) Hospital birth record or certificate.
(2) Physician's or midwife's birth record.
(3) Bible or other family record.
(4) Naturalization record.
(5) Military record.
(6) Immigration record.
(7) Passport.
(8) Selective service registration record.
(9) Census record.
(10) School record.
(11) Vaccination record.
(12) Insurance record.
(13) Labor union or fraternal record.
(14) Employer's record.
(15) Marriage record.
(16) A statement signed by the individual giving the reason why he or she cannot obtain other convincing evidence of age and the sworn statements of two other persons who have personal knowledge of the age that the individual is trying to prove.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0106)
§ 219.22
When evidence of death is required.
(a)
When evidence of the employee's death is required.
Evidence to prove the employee's death is always required for payment of any type of survivor annuity or lump-sum payment based on the deceased employee's record. See parts 216 and 234 for types of survivor payments.
(b)
When evidence to prove death of other persons is required.
Evidence to prove the death of persons other than the empoyee is required when—
(1) A claimant, who is eligible for survivor benefits, dies after the employee;
(2) A residual lump sum (see part 234 of this chapter) is payable and a person whom the employee named to receive all or part of this payment dies before the employee, or such person dies after the employee but before receiving his or her share of the benefit; or
(3) There is reasonable doubt of the death of—
(i) Any person who, if alive, has priority over the applicant;
(ii) Any spouse whose death is alleged to have ended a previous marriage, if a later marriage in question cannot be presumed valid under state law; or
(iii) Any person the termination of whose entitlement would increase payments to other entitled persons.
§ 219.23
Evidence to prove death.
(a)
Preferred evidence of death.
The best evidence of a person's death is—
(1) A certified copy of or extract from the public record of death, or verdict of the coroner's jury of the state or community where death occurred; or a certificate or statement of death issued by a local registrar or public health official;
(2) A signed statement of the funeral director, attending physician, or official of an institution where death occurred;
(3) A certified copy of, or extract from, an official report or finding of death made by an agency or department of the United States or of a state; or
(4) If death occurred outside the United States, an official report of death by a United States Consul or other authorized employee of the State Department, or a certified copy of the public record of death in a foreign country.
(b)
Other evidence of death.
If the preferred evidence of death cannot be obtained, the individual who must furnish evidence of death will be asked to explain the reason therefor and to submit other convincing evidence, such as sworn statements of at least two persons who have personal knowledge of the death. These persons must be able to swear to the date, time, place, and cause of death.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0077)
§ 219.24
Evidence of presumed death.
When a person cannot be proven dead but evidence of death is needed, the Board may presume he or she died at a certain time if the Board receives the following evidence:
(a) A certified copy of, or extract from, an official report or finding by an agency or department of the United States that a missing person is presumed to be dead as stated in Federal law (5 U.S.C. 5565). Unless other evidence is submitted showing an actual date of death, the Board will use the date on which the person was reported missing as the date of death.
(b) Signed statements by those in a position to know that facts and other records which show that the person has been absent from his or her residence for no apparent reason and has not been heard from for at least 7 years. If there is no evidence available that that person continued in life after the date of disappearance, the Board will use as the date of death the date the person disappeared.
(c) When a person has been missing for less than 7 years but may be presumed dead due to drowning or common disaster (fire, accident, etc.), signed statements from the applicant and individuals who know the circumstances surrounding the occurrence leading to the person's disappearance. The best evidence is statements from individuals who witnessed the occurrence or saw the missing person at the scene of the occurrence shortly before it happened.

# Subpart C—Evidence of Relationship
§ 219.30
When evidence of marriage is required.
(a)
When an application is filed for benefits.
Documentary evidence of marriage is required when an individual files for a monthly annuity, lump-sum death payment, residual lump sum, or Medicare coverage, as the wife, husband, widow, widower, divorced spouse or surviving divorced spouse, or stepparent of the employee. A claimant may also be required to submit evidence of another person's marriage
when that person's marriage is necessary to determine the applicant's entitlement to benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act.
(b)
State law.
In deciding whether the marriage to the employee is valid or not, in a case where the employee is living, the Board will follow the law of the state where the employee had a permanent home when the applicant filed an application; in a case where the employee is dead, the Board will follow the law of the state where the employee had a permanent home when he or she died.
(c)
Types of evidence.
What evidence will be required depends on whether the employee's marriage was a ceremonial marriage, a common-law marriage, or a marriage that can be deemed to be valid.
§ 219.31
Evidence of a valid ceremonial marriage.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence of a ceremonial marriage is—
(1) A copy of the public record of the marriage, certified by the custodian of the record or by a Board employee;
(2) A copy of a church record of the marriage certified by the custodian of the record or by a Board employee; or
(3) The original certificate of marriage.
(b)
Other evidence of a ceremonial marriage.
If preferred evidence of a ceremonial marriage cannot be obtained, the applicant must state the reason therefor in writing and submit either—
(1) A sworn statement of the clergyman or official who performed the marriage ceremony; or
(2) Other convincing evidence, such as the sworn statements of at least two persons who have direct knowledge of the marriage, preferably eyewitnesses to the marriage ceremony.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0140)
§ 219.32
Evidence of a common-law marriage.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
Evidence of a common-law marriage must give the reasons why the informant believes that a marriage exists. If the information described in this paragraph is not furnished on a form provided by the Board, it must be submitted in the form of a sworn statement. Preferred evidence of a common-law marriage is one of the following:
(1) If both the husband and wife are alive, each shall sign a statement and get signed statements from one blood relative of each. The statement of another individual may be submitted for each statement the husband or wife is unable to get from a relative. Each signed statement should show—
(i) That the husband and wife believed they were married;
(ii) The basis for this belief; and
(iii) That the husband and wife have presented themselves to the public as husband and wife.
(2) If either the husband or wife is dead, the surviving spouse shall furnish a signed statement and signed statements from two blood relatives of the dead spouse. The surviving spouse's statement should show that he or she and the dead spouse believed themselves to be married, the basis for this belief, and that they presented themselves to the public as husband and wife. The statements from relatives of the dead spouse should support the surviving spouse's statement.
(3) If both husband and wife are dead, the applicant shall get a signed statement from one blood relative of each dead spouse. Each statement should show that the husband and wife believed themselves to be married, the basis for this belief, and that they presented themselves to the public as husband and wife.
(4) Statements by relatives and other individuals described in paragraphs (a)(1), (2) and (3) of this section are not required when—
(i) The husband and wife entered into a ceremonial marriage which was void because of a legal impediment to the marriage;
(ii) After the impediment was removed, the husband and wife continued to live together as man and wife until the employee filed an application or one of them died; and
(iii) A valid common-law marriage was established, under the law of the State in which they lived, by their continuing to live together as man and wife.
(b)
Other evidence of common-law marriage.
When preferred evidence of a
common-law marriage cannot be obtained, the claimant will be asked to explain the reason therefor and to furnish other convincing evidence of the marriage.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0021)
§ 219.33
Evidence of a deemed valid marriage.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence of a deemed valid marriage is—
(1) Evidence of a ceremonial marriage as described in § 219.31;
(2) If both the employee and spouse are alive, the spouse's signed statement that he or she went through the ceremony in good faith and his or her reasons for believing the marriage was valid; or if the employee is dead, the widow or widower's signed statement to that effect;
(3) If required to remove a reasonable doubt, the signed statements of other persons who have information about what the parties knew about any previous marriage or other facts showing whether the parties went through the marriage ceremony in good faith; and
(4) Evidence that the parties were living in the same household when the employee applied for payments; or, if the employee is dead, when he or she died. See § 219.51 for the evidence required to demonstrate living in the same household.
(b)
Other evidence of a deemed valid marriage.
If preferred evidence of a deemed valid marriage cannot be obtained, the claimant must explain the reason therefor and submit other convincing evidence of the marriage.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0140)
§ 219.34
When evidence that a marriage has ended is required.
Evidence of how a previous marriage ended may be required to determine whether a later marriage is valid. If a widow or widower remarried after the employee's death and that marriage was annulled, evidence of the annulment is required. If the claimant is a divorced spouse or surviving divorced spouse, evidence to prove a final or absolute divorce from the employee may be required.
§ 219.35
Evidence that a marriage has ended.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence that a marriage has ended is—
(1) A certified copy of the decree of divorce or annulment; or
(2) Evidence of the death (See § 219.23) of a party to the marriage.
(b)
Other evidence that a marriage has ended.
If preferred evidence that the marriage has ended cannot be obtained, the claimant must explain the reason therefor and submit other convincing evidence that the marriage has ended.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3220-0021 and 3220-0140)
§ 219.36
When evidence of a parent or child relationship is required.
(a)
When parent or child applies.
A person who applies for a parent's or child's annuity or for Medicare coverage is required to submit evidence of his or her relationship to the deceased employee.
(b)
When individual with child in care applies.
An individual who applies for an annuity because he or she has a child of the employee in care is required to submit evidence of the child's relationship to the employee.
(c)
Evidence required depends on relationship.
The evidence the Board will require depends on whether the person is the employee's natural child, adopted child, stepchild, grandchild, or stepgrandchild; or whether the person is the employee's natural parent or adopting parent.
§ 219.37
Evidence of natural parent or child relationship.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
If the claimant is the natural parent of the employee, preferred evidence of the ralationship is a copy of the employee's public or religious birth record. If the claimant is the natural child of the employee, preferred evidence of the relationship is a copy of the child's public or religious birth record.
(b)
Other evidence of parent or child relationship.
(1) When preferred evidence of a parent or child relationship cannot be obtained, the Board may ask the applicant for evidence of the employee's
marriage or of the marriage of the employee's parents if that is needed to remove any reasonable doubt of the relationship.
(2) To show that a person is the child of the employee, the person may be asked for evidence that he or she would be able to inherit the employee's personal property under the law of the state where the employee died or had a permanent home.
(3) In some instances the Board may ask for a signed statement from the employee that a person is his or her natural child, or for a copy of a court order showing that the person has been declared to be the child of the employee, or for a copy of a court order requiring the employee to contribute to the person's support because the person is his or her child, or for any other supporting evidence which may be required in order to establish that the person is the child of the employee.
§ 219.38
Evidence of stepparent or stepchild relationship.
If the claimant is a stepparent or stepchild of the employee, the Board will ask for the evidence described in § 219.37 or § 219.39 which shows the person's natural or adoptive relationship to the employee's husband, wife, widow, or widower. The Board will also ask for evidence of the husband's, wife's, widow's or widower's marriage to the employee (See §§ 219.30-219.33).
§ 219.39
Evidence of relationship by legal adoption—parent or child.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence of legal adoption is—
(1) A copy of the decree or order of adoption, certified by the custodian of the record;
(2) A photocopy of the decree or order of adoption; or
(3) If the widow or widower adopted the child after the employee's death, the evidence described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section; the widow's or widower's statement as to whether the child was living in the same household with the employee when the employee died (see §§ 219.50 and 219.51); what support, if any, the child was getting from another person or organization; and if the widow or widower had a deemed valid marriage with the employee, evidence of that marriage (see § 219.33).
(b)
Other evidence of legal adoption.
In some states the record of adoption proceedings is sealed and cannot be obtained without a court order. In this event, the Board will accept as proof of adoption an official notice received by the adopting parents at the time of adoption that the adoption has been completed or a birth certificate issued as a result of the adoption proceeding.
§ 219.40
Evidence of relationship by equitable adoption—child.
(a)
Preferred evidence.
If the claimant is a person who claims to be the equitably adopted child of the employee (or of the employee's wife, widow, widower, or husband), as defined in part 222 of this chapter, the Board will ask for evidence of the agreement to adopt if it is in writing. The Board will also ask for written statements from the child's natural parents as well as adopting parents concerning the child's relationship to the adopting parents.
(b)
Other evidence.
If the agreement to adopt was not in writing, the Board will require other convincing evidence about the child's relationship to the adopting parents.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0040)
§ 219.41
Evidence of relationship of grandchild or stepgrandchild.
If the child is the grandchild or stepgrandchild of the employee, the Board will require the kind of evidence described in §§ 219.36-219.38 that shows that child's relationship to his or her parents and his or her parents' relationship to the employee.
§ 219.42
When evidence of child's dependency is required.
Evidence of a child's dependency on the employee is required when—
(a) The employee is receiving an annuity that can be increased under the social security overall minimum (see part 229 of this chapter) by including a child, grandchild or a spouse who has a child in his or her care;
(b) A wife under age 65 applies for a full spouse annuity because she has a child or a grandchild of the employee in her care; or
(c) A child or someone in behalf of a child applies for a child's annuity based on the deceased employee's record.
§ 219.43
Evidence of child's dependency.
(a)
When the dependency requirement must be met.
Usually the dependency requirement must be met at one of the times shown in part 222 of this chapter.
(b)
Natural or adopted.
If the child is the employee's natural or adopted child, the Board may ask for the following evidence:
(1) A signed statement by someone who knows the facts that confirms that the child is the natural or adopted child.
(2) If the child was adopted by someone else while the employee was alive but the adoption was annulled, the Board may require a certified copy of the annulment decree or other convincing evidence of the annulment.
(3) A signed statement by someone having personal knowledge of the circumstances showing when and where the child lived with the employee and when and why they may have lived apart; and showing what contributions the employee made to the child's support and how the contributions were made.
(c)
Stepchild.
If the child is the employee's stepchild, the Board may ask for the following evidence;
(1) A signed statement by someone having personal knowledge of the circumstances showing when and where the child lived with the employee and when and why they may have lived apart.
(2) A signed statement by someone having personal knowledge of the circumstances showing what contributions the employee made to the child's support, the child's ordinary living costs and the income and support the child received from any other source during the relevant time as required by § 222.55 of this chapter.
(d)
Grandchild or stepgrandchild.
If the child is the employee's grandchild or stepgrandchild, the Board will require the evidence described in paragraph (c) of this section. The Board will also require evidence of the employee's death or disability.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0099)
§ 219.44
Evidence of relationship of a person other than a parent or child.
(a)
Claimants other than child or parent.
When any person other than a child or parent applies for benefits due because of the employee's death or because of the death of a beneficiary, the Board may ask the claimant for evidence of relationship.
(b)
Evidence required.
The type of evidence required is dependent upon the amount payable and the claimant's relationship to the deceased employee or beneficiary.
(c)
More than one eligible and claimants agree on relationship.
If there is more than one person eligible for benefits, and all eligible persons agree on the relationship of each other eligible person, only one of the persons will be asked to furnish proof of relationship. For example, if brothers and sisters of a deceased employee file applications for the residual lump sum or annuity payments due but unpaid at death, only one of them need file proof of relationship if their applications indicate that there is no dispute as to who are the brothers and sisters of the employee.

# Subpart D—Other Evidence Requirements
§ 219.50
When evidence of “living with” is required.
Evidence of “living with” (see part 222 of this chapter on Family Relationships) is required when—
(a) The employee's spouse applies for a spouse's annuity as a deemed spouse; or
(b) The employee's legal widow or widower applies for a lump-sum death payment, annuity payments due the employee but unpaid at death, or a residual lump-sum death payment on the basis of that relationship, or the employee's deemed widow or widower applies for a widow's or widower's annuity.
§ 219.51
Evidence to prove “living with”.
The following evidence may be required:
(a) If the employee is alive, both the employee and his or her spouse must sign a statement that they are living together in the same household when the spouse applies for a spouse's annuity as a deemed spouse.
(b) If the employee is dead, the widow or widower must sign a statement showing whether he or she was living together in the same household with the employee when the employee died.
(c) If the employee and spouse, widow or widower were temporarily living apart, a signed statement is required explaining where each was living, how long the separation lasted, and the reason for separation. If more evidence is required to remove any reasonable doubt about the temporary nature of the separation, the Board may ask for sworn statements of other persons having personal knowledge of the facts or for other convincing evidence.
(d) If the employee and spouse, widow, or widower were not living in the same household, the Board may ask for evidence that the employee was contributing to or under court order to contribute to the support of his or her spouse, widow, or widower. Evidence of contributions or a certified copy of the order for support may be requested. The court order for support must be in effect on the day the spouse applies for a spouse's annuity or, if the employee is dead, the day of the employee's death. This type of evidence does not apply for purposes of establishing a deemed valid marriage. (See part 222 of this chapter.) A deemed spouse, widow, or widower must furnish evidence as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0030)
§ 219.52
When evidence of having a child in care is required.
A person who applies for a spouse's, widow's or widower's, or surviving divorced spouse's annuity on the basis of caring for a child, or for an increase under the social security overall minimum guaranty provision based on caring for a child, is required to furnish evidence that he or she has in care an eligible child of the employee as described in part 222 of this chapter. What evidence the Board will require depends upon whether the child is living with the applicant or with someone else.
§ 219.53
Evidence of having a child in care.
(a)
Preferred evidence of having a child in care.
Preferred evidence of having a child in care is—
(1) If the child is living with the applicant, the claimant's signed statement showing that the child is living with him or her.
(2) If the child is living with someone else—
(i) The claimant's signed statement showing with whom the child is living and why. The claimant must also show when the child last lived with him or her, how long the separation will last, and what care and contributions he or she provides for the child; and
(ii) The signed statement of the person with whom the child is living showing what care the claimant provides and the sources and amounts of support received by the child. If the child is in an institution, an official thereof should sign the statement. A copy of any court order or written agreement showing who has custody of the child should be provided to the Board.
(b)
Other evidence.
If the preferred evidence described in paragraph (a) of this section cannot be obtained, the Board will require other convincing evidence that the applicant has the child in care.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3220-0030 and 3220-0042)
§ 219.54
When evidence of school attendance is required.
If a child age 18 applies for payments as a student, the Board will require evidence that the child is attending elementary or secondary school. After the child has started his or her school attendance, the Board may also ask for evidence that he or she is continuing to attend school full time. To be acceptable to the Board, the child must submit the evidence of school attendance
within 90 days of the date the evidence is requested by the Board.
§ 219.55
Evidence of school attendance for child age 18.
The child will be asked to submit (on a form furnished by the Board or other form acceptable to the Board) the following evidence:
(a) A signed statement that he or she is attending school full-time and is not being paid by an employer to attend school; and
(b) A statement from an official of the school verifying that the child is attending school full-time. The Board may also accept as evidence a letter of acceptance from the school, receipted bill, or other evidence showing that the child has enrolled or been accepted at that school or is continuing in full-time attendance.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3220-0030, 3220-0083, and 3220-0123)
§ 219.56
When evidence of a parent's support is required.
If a person applies for a parent's annuity, the Board will require evidence to show that the parent received at least one-half of his or her support from the employee in the one-year period before—
(a) The employee died; or
(b) The beginning of a period of disability if the employee had a period of disability which did not end before his or her death.
§ 219.57
Evidence of a parent's support.
(a) The Board will require the parent's signed statement showing his or her income, any other sources of support, the amount from each source and his or her expenses during the one-year period.
(b) The Board may also ask the parent for signed statements from other people who know the facts about his or her sources of support.
(c) If the statements described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section cannot be obtained, the Board will require other convincing evidence that the parent is receiving one-half of his or her support from the employee.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0099)
§ 219.58
When evidence regarding payment of burial expenses is required.
If a person applies for the lump-sum death payment because he or she is responsible for paying the funeral home or burial expenses of the employee or because he or she has paid some or all of these expenses, the Board will require evidence of such payment.
§ 219.59
Evidence of responsibility for or payment of burial expenses.
The Board will ask for the following evidence:
(a) The claimant's signed statement showing—
(1) That he or she accepted responsibility for the funeral home expenses or paid some or all of these expenses or other burial expenses; or the name and address of the person who accepted responsibility for or paid these expenses;
(2) Total funeral home expenses and, if necessary, the total of other burial expenses; and if someone else paid part of the expenses, that person's name, address, and the amount he or she paid;
(3) The amount of cash or property the applicant expects to receive as repayment for any burial expenses he or she paid; and whether anyone has applied for any burial allowance from the Veterans Administration or other governmental agency for these expenses; and
(4) If the claimant is an owner or official of a funeral home, a signed statement from anyone, other than employee of the home, who helped make the burial arrangements showing whether he or she accepted responsibility for paying the burial expenses.
(b) Unless the claimant is an owner or official of a funeral home, a signed statement from the owner or official of the funeral home which handled the deceased employee's funeral and, if necessary, from those who supplied other burial goods or services which shows—
(1) The name and address of everyone who accepted responsibility for or paid any part of the burial expenses; and
(2) Information which the owner or official of the funeral home and, if necessary, any other supplier has about the expenses and payments described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0031)
§ 219.60
When evidence of the employee's permanent home is required.
The Board may ask for evidence to prove where the employee had a permanent home at the time of filing an application or, if earlier, at the time the employee died if—
(a) The claimant is applying for payments as the employee's wife, husband, widow, widower, parent, or child; and
(b) The claimant's relationship to the employee depends upon the laws of the state where the employee had his or her permanent home when his or her wife or husband applied for an annuity or when the employee died.
§ 219.61
Evidence of where the employee had a permanent home.
The Board will ask for the following evidence to establish the employee's permanent home:
(a) The claimant's signed statement showing what the employee considered to be his or her permanent home.
(b) If the statement in paragraph (a) of this section or other evidence raises a reasonable doubt in establishing the employee's permanent home, evidence of where the employee paid personal property taxes, real estate taxes, or income taxes; or evidence where the employee voted; or other convincing evidence.
§ 219.62
When evidence of “good cause” is required.
The principle of “good cause”, as defined in part 217 of this chapter, is applied by the Board in determining whether to allow an application which is submitted more than two years after the employee's death as acceptable for the lump-sum death payment or for an annuity unpaid at death, or to accept the proof of support required for entitlement to a parent's annuity if such proof is filed more than two years after the employee's death.
§ 219.63
What evidence is required to establish “good cause”.
The Board will ask for the following evidence of “good cause”:
(a) The claimant's signed statement explaining why he or she did not file the application for lump-sum death payment or annuity unpaid at death or the parent's proof of support within the specified two-year period.
(b) If the statement in paragraph (a) of this section or other evidence raises a reasonable doubt as to whether there was good cause, other convincing evidence to establish “good cause”.
§ 219.64
When evidence may be required for other reasons.
(a) The Board will require evidence of the appointment of a legal representative when—
(1) The employee's estate is entitled to a lump-sum death payment, annuity unpaid at death, or residual lump sum, and an executor or administrator has been appointed for the estate; or
(2) A minor child or incompetent is entitled to an annuity or lump-sum payment and a guardian, trustee, committee, or conservator has been appointed to act in his or her behalf.
(b) The Board will require evidence of an annuitant's earnings when the information that he or she furnished the Board does not agree with the earnings data furnished by the Social Security Administration or secured from other sources, and the annuitant maintains that the earnings data from the Social Security Administration or from other sources is not correct.
(c) The Board will require evidence to establish the amounts paid as a public service pension, public disability benefit, or worker's compensation to an employee, spouse, widow, or widower when the pension, public disability benefit, or worker's compensation affects the amount of his or her annuity.
(d) The Board will require evidence to reconcile discrepancies between the information furnished by the claimant and information already in the records of the Board, the Social Security Administration, or other public agencies. Such discrepancies may be differences in name, date or place of birth, periods
of employment, or other identifying data.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3220-0002, 3220-0136, and 3220-0154)
§ 219.65
Other types of evidence that may be required.
(a) The Board may ask for a statement from an employer listing the annuitant's earnings by months and explaining any payments made to the annuitant when he or she was not working.
(b) The Board may ask for copies of award notices from a public agency showing the amounts of periodic payments and the period covered by each payment.
(c) The Board may ask for a statement from the applicant explaining discrepancies and may ask for sworn statements from persons who have personal knowledge of the facts or for any other convincing evidence.
(d) The Board may ask for proof of the court appointment of a legal representative, such as:
(1) Certified copy of letters of appointment;
(2) “Short” certificate;
(3) Certified copy of order of appointment; or
(4) Any official document issued by the clerk or other proper official of the appointing court.
Pt. 220

# PART 220—DETERMINING DISABILITY

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
220.1
Introduction of part.
220.2
The basis for the Board's disability decision.
220.3
Determinations by other organizations and agencies.

# Subpart B—General Definitions of Terms Used In This Part
220.5
Definitions as used in this part.

# Subpart C—Disability Under the Railroad Retirement Act for Work in an Employee's Regular Railroad Occupation
220.10
Disability for work in an employee's regular railroad occupation.
220.11
Definitions as used in this subpart.
220.12
Evidence considered.
220.13
Establishment of permanent disability for work in regular railroad occupation.
220.14
Weighing of evidence.
220.15
Effects of work on occupational disability.
220.16
Responsibility to notify the Board of events which affect disability.
220.17
Recovery from disability for work in the regular occupation.
220.18
The reentitlement period.
220.19
Payment of the disability annuity during the trial work period and the reentitlement period.
220.20
Notice that an annuitant is no longer disabled.
220.21
Initial evaluation of a previous occupational disability.

# Subpart D—Disability Under the Railroad Retirement Act for Any Regular Employment
220.25
General.
220.26
Disability for any regular employment, defined.
220.27
What is needed to show an impairment.
220.28
How long the impairment must last.
220.29
Work that is considered substantial gainful activity.
220.30
Special period required for eligibility of widow(er)s.

# Subpart E—Disability Determinations Governed by the Regulations of the Social Security Administration
220.35
Introduction.
220.36
Period of disability.
220.37
When a child's disability determination is governed by the regulations of the Social Security Administration.
220.38
When a widow(er)'s disability determination is governed by the regulations of the Social Security Administration.
220.39
Disability determination for a surviving divorced spouse or remarried widow(er).

# Subpart F—Evidence of Disability
220.45
Providing evidence of disability.
220.46
Medical evidence.
220.47
Purchase of existing medical evidence.
220.48
If the claimant fails to submit medical or other evidence.

# Subpart G—Consultative Examinations
220.50
Consultative examinations at the Board's expense.
220.51
Notice of the examination.
220.52
Failure to appear at a consultative examination.
220.53
When the Board will purchase a consultative examination and how it will be used.
220.54
When the Board will not purchase a consultative examination.
220.55
Purchase of consultative examinations at the reconsideration level.
220.56
Securing medical evidence at the hearings officer hearing level.
220.57
Types of purchased examinations and selection of sources.
220.58
Objections to the designated physician or psychologist.
220.59
Requesting examination by a specific physician, psychologist or institution—hearings officer hearing level.
220.60
Diagnostic surgical procedures.
220.61
Informing the examining physician or psychologist of examination scheduling, report content and signature requirements.
220.62
Reviewing reports of consultative examinations.
220.63
Conflict of interest.
220.64
Program integrity.

# Subpart H—Evaluation of Disability
220.100
Evaluation of disability for any regular employment.
220.101
Evaluation of mental impairments.
220.102
Non-severe impairment(s), defined.
220.103
Two or more unrelated impairments—initial claims.
220.104
Multiple impairments.
220.105
Initial evaluation of a previous disability.

# Subpart I—Medical Considerations
220.110
Medically disabled.
220.111
[Reserved]
220.112
Conclusions by physicians concerning the claimant's disability.
220.113
Symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings.
220.114
Evaluation of symptoms, including pain.
220.115
Need to follow prescribed treatment.

# Subpart J—Residual Functional Capacity
220.120
The claimant's residual functional capacity.
220.121
Responsibility for assessing and determining residual functional capacity.

# Subpart K—Vocational Considerations
220.125
When vocational background is considered.
220.126
Relationship of ability to do work and residual functional capacity.
220.127
When the only work experience is arduous unskilled physical labor.
220.128
Age as a vocational factor.
220.129
Education as a vocational factor.
220.130
Work experience as a vocational factor.
220.131
Work which exists in the national economy.
220.132
Physical exertion requirements.
220.133
Skill requirements.
220.134
Medical-vocational guidelines in appendix 2 of this part.
220.135
Exertional and nonexertional limitations.

# Subpart L—Substantial Gainful Activity
220.140
General.
220.141
Substantial gainful activity, defined.
220.142
General information about work activity.
220.143
Evaluation guides for an employed claimant.
220.144
Evaluation guides for a self-employed claimant.
220.145
Impairment-related work expenses.

# Subpart M—Disability Annuity Earnings Restrictions
220.160
How work for a railroad employer affects a disability annuity.
220.161
How work affects an employee disability annuity.
220.162
Earnings report.
220.163
Employee penalty deductions.
220.164
Employee end-of-year adjustment.

# Subpart N—Trial Work Period and Reentitlement Period for Annuitants Disabled for Any Regular Employment
220.170
The trial work period.
220.171
The reentitlement period.

# Subpart O—Continuing or Stopping Disability Due to Substantial Gainful Activity or Medical Improvement
220.175
Responsibility to notify the Board of events which affect disability.
220.176
When disability continues or ends.
220.177
Terms and definitions.
220.178
Determining medical improvement and its relationship to the annuitant's ability to do work.
220.179
Exceptions to medical improvement.
220.180
Determining continuation or cessation of disability.
220.181
The month in which the Board will find that the annuitant is no longer disabled.
220.182
Before a disability annuity is stopped.
220.183
Notice that the annuitant is not disabled.
220.184
If the annuitant becomes disabled by another impairment(s).
220.185
The Board may conduct a review to find out whether the annuitant continues to be disabled.
220.186
When and how often the Board will conduct a continuing disability review.
220.187
If the annuitant's medical recovery was expected and the annuitant returned to work.
Appendix 1 to Part 220 [Reserved]
Appendix 2 to Part 220—Medical-Vocational Guidelines
Appendix 3 to Part 220—Railroad Retirement Board Occupational Disability Standards

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231a; 45 U.S.C. 231f.

# Source:
56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 220.1
Introduction of part.
(a) This part explains how disability determinations are made by the Railroad Retirement Board. In some determinations of disability entitlement, as described below, the Board makes the decision of disability under the Railroad Retirement Act based on the regulations set out in this part. However, in certain other determinations of disability entitlement (as also described below) the Board has the authority to decide whether the claimant is disabled as that term is defined in the Social Security Act and the regulations of the Social Security Administration.
(b) In order for a claimant to become entitled to a railroad retirement annuity based on disability for his or her regular railroad occupation, or to become entitled to a railroad retirement annuity based on disability for any regular employment as an employee, widow(er), or child, he or she must be disabled as those terms are defined in the Railroad Retirement Act. In order for a claimant to become entitled to a period of disability, to early Medicare coverage based on disability, to benefits under the social security overall minimum, or to a disability annuity as a surviving divorced spouse or remarried widow(er), the claimant must be found disabled as that term is defined in the Social Security Act.
§ 220.2
The basis for the Board's disability decision.
(a) The Board makes disability decisions for claims of disability under the Railroad Retirement Act. These decisions are based either on the rules contained in the Board's regulations in this part or the rules contained in the regulations of the Social Security Administration, whichever is controlling.
(b) A disability decision is made only if the claimant meets other basic eligibility requirements for the specific disability benefit for which he or she is applying. For example, a claimant for an occupational disability annuity must first meet the eligibility requirements for that annuity, as explained in part 216 of this chapter, in order for the Board to make a disability decision.
§ 220.3
Determinations by other organizations and agencies.
Determinations of the Social Security Administration or any other governmental or non-governmental agency about whether or not a claimant is disabled under the laws, regulations or standards administered by that agency shall be considered by the Board but are not binding on the Board.

# Subpart B—General Definitions of Terms Used in This Part
§ 220.5
Definitions as used in this part.
Act
means the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974.
Application
refers only to a form described in part 217 of this chapter.
Board
means the Railroad Retirement Board.
Claimant
means the person for whom an application for an annuity, period of disability or Medicare coverage is filed.
Eligible
means that a person would meet all the requirements for payment of an annuity but has not yet applied.
Employee
is defined in part 203 of this title.
Entitled
means that a person has applied and has proven his or her right to have the annuity, period of disability, or Medicare coverage begin.
Medical source
refers to both a treating source and a source of record.
Review physician
means a medical doctor either employed by or under contract to the Board who upon request reviews medical evidence and provides medical advice.
Social security overall minimum
refers to the provision of the Railroad Retirement Act which guarantees that the total monthly annuities payable to an
employee and his or her family will not be less than the total monthly amount which would be payable under the Social Security Act if the employee's railroad service were credited as employment under the Social Security Act.
Source of record
means a hospital, clinic or other source that has provided a claimant with medical treatment or evaluation, as well as a physician or psychologist who has treated or evaluated a claimant but does not have an ongoing relationship with him or her.
Treating source
means the claimant's own physician or psychologist who has provided the claimant with medical treatment or evaluation and who has an ongoing treatment relationship with him or her.

# Subpart C—Disability Under the Railroad Retirement Act for Work in an Employee's Regular Railroad Occupation
§ 220.10
Disability for work in an employee's regular railroad occupation.
(a) In order to receive an occupational disability annuity an eligible employee must be found by the Board to be disabled for work in his or her regular railroad occupation because of a permanent physical or mental impairment. In this subpart the Board describes in general terms how it evaluates a claim for an occupational disability annuity. In accordance with section 2(a)(2) of the Railroad Retirement Act this subpart was developed with the cooperation of employers and employees. This subpart is supplemented by an Occupational Disability Claims Manual (Manual)
1
which was also developed with the cooperation of employers and employees.
1
The Manual may be obtained from the Board's headquarters at 844 North Rush Street, Chicago, IL 60611.
(b) In accordance with section 2(a)(2) of the Railroad Retirement Act, the Board shall select two physicians, one from recommendations made by representatives of employers and one from recommendations made by representatives of employees. These individuals shall comprise the Occupational Disability Advisory Committee (Committee). This Committee shall periodically review, as necessary, this subpart and the Manual and make recommendations to the Board with respect to amendments to this subpart or to the Manual. The Board shall confer with the Committee before it amends either this subpart or the Manual.
[63 FR 7541, Feb. 13, 1998]
§ 220.11
Definitions as used in this subpart.
Functional capacity test
means one of a number of tests which provide objective measures of a claimant's maximal work ability and includes functional capacity evaluations which provide a systematic comprehensive assessment of a claimant's overall strength, mobility, endurance and capacity to perform physically demanding tasks, such as standing, walking, lifting, crouching, stooping or bending, climbing or kneeling.
Independent Case Evaluation
(ICE) means the process for evaluating claims not covered by appendix 3 of this part.
Permanent physical or mental impairment
means a physical or mental impairment or combination of impairments that can be expected to result in death or has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.
Regular railroad occupation
means an employee's railroad occupation in which he or she has engaged in service for hire in more calendar months than the calendar months in which he or she has been engaged in service for hire in any other occupation during the last preceding five calendar years, whether or not consecutive; or has engaged in service for hire in not less than one-half of all of the months in which he or she has been engaged in service for hire during the last preceding 15 consecutive calendar years. If an employee last worked as an officer or employee of a railway labor organization and if continuance in such employment is no longer available to him or her, the “regular occupation” shall be the position to which the employee holds seniority rights or the position which he or she left to work for a railway labor organization.
Residual functional capacity
has the same meaning as found in § 220.120.
[63 FR 7541, Feb. 13, 1998]
§ 220.12
Evidence considered.
The regulations explaining the employee's responsibility to provide evidence of disability, the kind of evidence, what medical evidence consists of, and the consequences of refusing or failing to provide evidence or to have a medical examination are found in § 220.45 through § 220.48. The regulations explaining when the employee may be requested to report for a consultative examination are found in § 220.50 and § 220.51. The regulations explaining how the Board evaluates conclusions by physicians concerning the employee's disability, how the Board evaluates the employee's symptoms, what medical findings consist of, and the need to follow prescribed treatment are found in § 220.112 through § 220.115.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991. Redesignated at 63 FR 7541, Feb. 13, 1998]
§ 220.13
Establishment of permanent disability for work in regular railroad occupation.
The Board will presume that a claimant who is not allowed to continue working for medical reasons by his employer has been found, under standards contained in this subpart, disabled unless the Board finds that no person could reasonably conclude on the basis of evidence presented that the claimant can no longer perform his or her regular railroad occupation for medical reasons. (See § 220.21 if the claimant is not currently disabled, but was previously occupationally disabled for a specified period of time in the past). The Board uses the following evaluation process in determining disability for work in the regular occupation:
(a) The Board evaluates the employee's medically documented physical and mental impairment(s) to determine if the employee is medically disabled. In order to be found medically disabled, the employee's impairments must be severe enough to prevent a person from doing any substantial gainful activity. The Board makes this determination based on the guidelines set out in § 220.100(b)(3). If the Board finds that an employee has an impairment which is medically disabling, it will find the employee disabled for work in his or her regular occupation without considering the duties of his or her regular occupation.
(b) If the Board finds that the claimant does not have an impairment described in paragraph (a) of this section, it will—
(1) Determine the employee's regular railroad occupation, as defined in § 220.11, based upon the employee's own description of his or her job;
(2) Evaluate whether the claimant is disabled as follows:
(i) The Board first determines whether the employee's regular railroad occupation is an occupation covered under appendix 3 of this part. Second, the Board will determine whether the employee's claimed impairment(s) is covered under appendix 3 of this part. If claimant's regular railroad occupation or impairment(s) is not covered under appendix 3 of this part, then the Board will determine if the employee is disabled under ICE as set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
(ii)(A) If the Board determines that, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, appendix 3 of this part applies, then the Board will confirm the existence of the employee's impairment(s) using—
(
1
) The “highly recommended” and “recommended” tests set forth in appendix 3 of this part that relate to the body part affected by the claimant's impairment(s); or
(
2
) By using valid diagnostic tests accepted by the medical community as described in § 220.27.
(B) If the employee's impairment(s) cannot be confirmed because there are significant differences in objective tests such as imaging study, electrocardiograms or other test results, and these differences cannot be readily resolved, the Board will determine if the employee is disabled under ICE as set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section. However, if the employee's impairment(s) cannot be confirmed, and there are no significant differences in objective medical tests which cannot be readily resolved, then the employee will be found not disabled.
(iii) Once the impairment(s) is confirmed, as provided for in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the Board will apply appendix 3 of this part. If appendix 3 of this part dictates a “D” (disabled) finding, the Board will find the claimant disabled.
(iv) If the Board does not find the employee disabled using the standards in appendix 3 of this part, then the Board will determine if the employee is disabled using ICE. To evaluate a claim under ICE the Board will use the following steps:
(A)
Step 1.
The Board will determine if the medical evidence is complete. Under this step the Board may request the claimant to take additional medical tests such as a functional capacity test or other consultative examinations;
(B)
Step 2.
If the employee's impairment(s) has not been confirmed, as provided for in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section, the Board will next confirm the employee's impairment(s), as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section;
(C)
Step 3.
The Board will determine whether the opinions among the physicians regarding medical findings are consistent, by reviewing the employee's medical history, physical and mental examination findings, laboratory or other test results, and other information provided by the employee or obtained by the Board. If such records reveal that there are significant differences in the medical findings, significant differences in opinions concerning the residual functional capacity evaluations among treating physicians, or significant differences between the results of functional capacity evaluations and residual functional capacity examinations, then the Board may request additional evidence from treating physicians, additional consultative examinations and/or residual functional capacity tests to resolve the inconsistencies;
(D)
Step 4.
When the Board determines that there is concordance of medical findings, then the Board will assess the quality of the evidence in accordance with § 220.112, which describes the weight to be given to the opinions of various physicians, and § 220.114, which describes how the Board evaluates symptoms such as pain. The Board will also assess the weight of evidence by utilizing § 220.14, which outlines factors to be used in determining the weight to be attributed to certain types of evidence. If, after assessment, the Board determines that there is no substantial objective evidence of an impairment, the Board will determine that the employee is not disabled;
(E)
Step 5.
Next, the Board determines the physical and mental demands of the employee's regular railroad occupation. In determining the job demands of the employee's regular railroad occupation, the Board will not only consider the employee's own description of his or her regular railroad occupation, but shall also consider the employer's description of the physical requirements and environmental factors relating to the employee's regular railroad occupation, as provided by the employer on the appropriate form set forth in appendix 3 of this part, and consult other sources such as the Dictionary of Occupational Titles and the job descriptions of occupations found in the Occupational Disability Claims Manual, as provided for in § 220.10;
(F)
Step 6.
Based upon the assessment of the evidence in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(D) of this section, the Board shall determine the employee's residual functional capacity. The Board will then compare the job demands of the employee's regular railroad occupation, as determined in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(E) of this section. If the demands of the employee's regular railroad occupation exceed the employee's residual functional capacity, then the Board will find the employee disabled. If the demands do not exceed the employee's residual functional capacity, then the Board will find the employee not disabled.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 7541, Feb. 13, 1998; 74 FR 63600, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.14
Weighing of evidence.
(a)
Factors which support greater weight.
Evidence will generally be given more weight if it meets one or more of the following criteria:
(1) The residual functional capacity evaluation is based upon functional objective tests with high validity and reliability;
(2) The medical evidence shows multiple impairments which have a cumulative effect on the employee's residual functional capacity;
(3) Symptoms associated with limitations are consistent with objective findings;
(4) There exists an adequate trial of therapies with good compliance, but poor outcome;
(5) There exists consistent history of conditions between treating physicians and other health care providers.
(b)
Factors which support lesser weight.
Evidence will generally be given lesser weight if it meets one or more of the following criteria:
(1) There is an inconsistency between the diagnoses of the treating physicians;
(2) There is inconsistency between reports of pain and functional impact;
(3) There is inconsistency between subjective symptoms and physical examination findings;
(4) There is evidence of poor compliance with treatment regimen, keeping appointments, or cooperating with treatment;
(5) There is evidence of exam findings which is indicative of exaggerated or potential malingering response;
(6) The evidence consists of objective findings of exams that have poor reliability or validity;
(7) The evidence consists of imaging findings which are nonspecific and largely present in the general population;
(8) The evidence consists of a residual functional capacity evaluation which is supported by limited objective data without consideration for functional capacity testing.
[63 FR 7542, Feb. 13, 1998]
§ 220.15
Effects of work on occupational disability.
(a)
Disability onset when the employee works despite impairment.
An employee who has stopped work in his or her regular occupation due to a permanent physical or mental impairment(s) may make an effort to return to work in his or her regular occupation. If the employee is subsequently forced to stop that work after a short time because of his or her impairment(s), the Board will generally consider that work as an unsuccessful work attempt. In this situation, the Board may determine that the employee became disabled for work in his or her regular occupation before the last date the employee worked in his or her regular occupation. No annuity will be payable, however, until after the last date worked.
(b)
Occupational disability annuitant work restrictions.
The restrictions which apply to an annuitant who is disabled for work in his or her regular occupation are found in §§ 220.160 through 220.164.
§ 220.16
Responsibility to notify the Board of events which affect disability.
If the annuitant is entitled to a disability annuity because he or she is disabled for work in his or her regular occupation, the annuitant should promptly tell the Board if—
(a) His or her impairment(s) improves;
(b) He or she returns to any type of work;
(c) He or she increases the amount of work; or
(d) His or her earnings increase.
§ 220.17
Recovery from disability for work in the regular occupation.
(a)
General.
Disability for work in the regular occupation will end if—
(1) There is medical improvement in the annuitant's impairment(s) to the extent that the annuitant is able to perform the duties of his or her regular occupation; or
(2) The annuitant demonstrates the ability to perform the duties of his or her regular occupation. The Board provides a trial work period before terminating a disability annuity because of the annuitant's return to work.
(b)
Definition of the trial work period.
The trial work period is a period during which the annuitant may test his or her ability to work and still be considered occupationally disabled. It begins and ends as described in paragraph (e) of this section. During this period, the annuitant may perform “services” (see paragraph (c) of this section) in as
many as 9 months, but these months do not have to be consecutive. The Board will not consider those services as showing that the annuitant's occupational disability has ended until the annuitant has performed services in at least 9 months. However, after the trial work period has ended, the Board will consider the work the annuitant did during the trial work period in determining whether the annuitant's occupational disability has ended at any time after the trial work period.
(c)
What the Board means by services in an occupational disability case.
When used in this section, “services” means any activity which, even though it may not be substantial gainful activity as defined in § 220.141, is—
(1) Done by a person in employment or self-employment for pay or profit, or is the kind normally done for pay or profit; and
(2) The activity is a return to the same duties of the annuitant's regular occupation or the activity so closely approximates the duties of the regular occupation as to demonstrate the ability to perform those duties.
(d)
Limitations on the number of trial work periods.
The annuitant may have only one trial work period during each period in which he or she is occupationally disabled.
(e)
When the trial work period begins and ends.
(1) The trial work period begins with whichever of the following calendar months is the latest—
(i) The annuity beginning date;
(ii) The month after the end of the appropriate waiting period; or
(iii) The month the application for disability is filed.
(2) The trial work period ends with the close of whichever of the following calendar months is the earlier—
(i) The ninth month (whether or not the months have been consecutive) in which the annuitant performed services; or
(ii) The month in which new evidence, other than evidence relating to any work the annuitant did during the trial work period, shows that the annuitant is not disabled, even though the annuitant has not worked a full nine months. The Board may find that the annuitant's disability has ended at any time during the trial work period if the medical or other evidence shows that the annuitant is no longer disabled.
§ 220.18
The reentitlement period.
(a)
General.
The reentitlement period is an additional period after the nine months of trial work during which the annuitant may continue to test his or her ability to work if the annuitant has a disabling impairment.
(b)
When the reentitlement period begins and ends.
The reentitlement period begins with the first month following completion of nine months of trial work but cannot begin earlier than December 1, 1980. It ends with whichever is earlier—
(1) The month before the first month in which the annuitant's impairment(s) no longer exists or is not medically disabling; or
(2) The last day of the 36th month following the end of the annuitant's trial work period.
(c)
When the annuitant is not entitled to a reentitlement period.
The annuitant is not entitled to a reentitlement period if—
(1) The annuitant is not entitled to a trial work period; or
(2) The annuitant's disability ended before the annuitant completed nine months of trial work in that period in which he or she was disabled.
§ 220.19
Payment of the disability annuity during the trial work period and the reentitlement period.
(a) The employee who is entitled to an occupational disability annuity will not be paid an annuity for each month in the trial work period or reentitlement period in which he or she—
(1) Works for an employer covered by the Railroad Retirement Act (see § 220.160); or
(2) Earns more than $400 (after deduction of impairment-related work expenses) in employment or self-employment (see §§ 220.161 and 220.164). See § 220.145 for the definition of impairment-related work expenses.
(b) If the employee's occupational disability annuity is stopped because of work during the trial work period or reentitlement period, and the employee discontinues that work before the end of either period, the disability annuity
may be started again without a new application and a new determination of disability.
§ 220.20
Notice that an annuitant is no longer disabled.
The regulation explaining the Board's responsibilities in notifying the annuitant, and the annuitant's rights when the disability annuity is stopped is found in § 220.183.
§ 220.21
Initial evaluation of a previous occupational disability.
(a) In some cases, the Board may determine that a claimant is not currently disabled for work in his or her regular occupation but was previously disabled for a specified period of time in the past. This can occur when—
(1) The disability application was filed before the claimant's occupational disability ended, but the Board did not make the initial determination of occupational disability until after the claimant's disability ended; or
(2) The disability application was filed after the claimant's occupational disability ended but no later than the 12th month after the month the disability ended.
(b) When evaluating a claim for a previous occupational disability, the Board follows the steps in § 220.13 to determine whether an occupational disability existed, and follows the steps in §§ 220.16 and 220.17 to determine when the occupational disability ended.

# Example 1:
The claimant sustained multiple fractures to his left leg in an automobile accident which occurred on June 16, 1982. For a period of 18 months following the accident the claimant underwent 2 surgical procedures which restored the functional use of his leg. After a recovery period following the last surgery, the claimant returned to his regular railroad job on February 1, 1984. The claimant, although fully recovered medically and regularly employed, filed an application on December 3, 1984 for a determination of occupational disability for the period June 16, 1982 through January 31, 1984. The Board reviewed his claim in January 1985 and determined that he was occupationally disabled for the prior period which began on June 16, 1982 and continued through January 31, 1984. A disability annuity is payable to the employee only for the period December 1, 1983 through January 31, 1984. An annuity may not begin any earlier than the 1st day of the 12th month before the month in which the application was filed. (See part 218 of this chapter for the rules on when an annuity may begin).

# Example 2:
The claimant is occupationally disabled using the same medical facts disclosed above, beginning June 16, 1982 (the date of the automobile accident). The claimant files an application for an occupational disability annuity, dated December 1, 1983. However, as of February 1, 1984, and before the Board makes a disability determination, the claimant returns to his regular railroad job and is no longer considered occupationally disabled. The Board reviews the claimant's application in May of 1984 and finds him occupationally disabled for the period June 16, 1982 through January 31, 1984. A disability annuity is payable to the employee from December 1, 1982 through January 31, 1984. (See part 218 of this chapter for the rules on when an annuity may begin).

# Subpart D—Disability Under the Railroad Retirement Act for Any Regular Employment
§ 220.25
General.
The definition and discussion of disability for any regular employment are found in §§ 220.26 through 220.184.
§ 220.26
Disability for any regular employment, defined.
An employee, widow(er), or child is disabled for any regular employment if he or she is unable to do any substantial gainful activity because of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which meets the duration requirement defined in § 220.28. In the case of a widow(er), the permanent physical or mental impairment must have prevented work in any regular employment before the end of a specific period (see § 220.30). In the case of a child, the permanent physical or mental impairment must have prevented work in any regular employment since before age 22. To meet this definition of disability, a claimant must have a severe impairment, which makes him or her unable to do any previous work or other substantial gainful activity which exists in the national economy. To determine whether a claimant is able to do any other work, the Board considers a claimant's residual functional capacity, age, education and work experience. See § 220.100 for
the process by which the Board evaluates disability for any regular employment. This process applies to employees, widow(er)s, or children who apply for annuities based on disability for any regular employment. This process does not apply to surviving divorced spouses or remarried widow(er)s who apply for annuities based on disability.
§ 220.27
What is needed to show an impairment.
A physical or mental impairment must result from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities which can be shown by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques. A physical or mental impairment must be established by medical evidence consisting of signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings, not only by the claimant's statement of symptoms. (See § 220.113 for further information about what is meant by symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings.) (See also § 220.112 for the effect of a medical opinion about whether or not a claimant is disabled.)
§ 220.28
How long the impairment must last.
Unless the claimant's impairment is expected to result in death, it must have lasted or must be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months. This is known as the duration requirement.
§ 220.29
Work that is considered substantial gainful activity.
Work is considered to be substantial gainful activity if it—
(a) Involves doing significant and productive physical or mental duties; and
(b) Is done or is intended to be done for pay or profit. (See § 220.141 for a detailed explanation of what is substantial gainful activity.)
§ 220.30
Special period required for eligibility of widow(er)s.
In order to be found disabled for any regular employment, a widow(er) must have a permanent physical or mental impairment which prevented work in any regular employment since before the end of a specific period as defined in part 216 of this chapter.

# Subpart E—Disability Determinations Governed by the Regulations of the Social Security Administration
§ 220.35
Introduction.
In addition to its authority to decide whether a claimant is disabled under the Railroad Retirement Act, the Board has authority in certain instances to decide whether a claimant is disabled as that term is defined in the Social Security Act. In making these decisions the Board must apply the regulations of the Social Security Administration in the same manner as does the Secretary of Health and Human Services in making disability decisions under the Social Security Act. Regulations of the Social Security Administration concerning disability are found at part 404, subpart P of this title.
§ 220.36
Period of disability.
(a)
General.
In order to receive an annuity based upon a disability, an employee must be found disabled under the Railroad Retirement Act. If an employee is found disabled under the Railroad Retirement Act, the Board will determine whether he is disabled under the Social Security Act to qualify for a period of disability as defined in that Act.
(b)
Period of disability
—(1)
Definition and effect.
A period of disability is a continuous period of time during which an employee is disabled as that term is defined in § 404.1505 of this title. A period of disability established by the Board—
(i) Preserves the disabled employee's earnings record as it is when the period begins;
(ii) Protects the insured status required for entitlement to social security overall minimum;
(iii) May cause an increase in the rate of an employee, spouse, or survivor annuity; or
(iv) May permit a disabled employee to receive Medicare benefits in addition to an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act.
(2)
Effect on benefits.
The establishment of a period of disability for the employee will never cause a denial or
reduction in benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act or Social Security Act, but it will always be used to establish Medicare entitlement before age 65.
(3)
Who may establish a period of disability.
The Railroad Retirement Board or the Social Security Administration may establish a period of disability. However, the decision of one agency is not binding upon the other agency.
(4)
When the Board may establish a period of disability.
The Board has independent authority to decide whether or not to establish a period of disability for any employee who was awarded an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act, or who—
(i) Has applied for a disability annuity; and
(ii) Has at least 10 years of railroad service.
(5)
When an employee is entitled to a period of disability.
An employee is entitled to a period of disability if he or she meets the following requirements:
(i) The employee is disabled under the Social Security Act, as described in § 404.1505 of this title.
(ii) The employee is insured for a period of disability under § 404.130 of this title based on combined railroad and social security earnings.
(iii) The employee files an application as shown in subparagraph (b)(6) of this section.
(iv) At least 5 consecutive months elapse from the month in which the period of disability begins and before the month in which it would end.
(6)
Application for a period of disability.
(i) An application for an employee disability annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act or an employee disability benefit under the Social Security Act is also an application for a period of disability.
(ii) An employee who is receiving an age annuity or who was previously denied a period of disability must file a separate application for a period of disability.
(iii) In order to be entitled to a period of disability, an employee must apply while he or she is disabled or not later than 12 months after the month in which the period of disability ends.
(iv) An employee who is unable to apply within the 12-month period after the period of disability ends because his or her physical condition limited his or her activities to the extent that he or she could not complete and sign an application or because he or she was mentally incompetent, may apply no later than 36 months after the period of disability ends.
(v) A period of disability can also be established on the basis of an application filed within 3 months after the month a disabled employee died.
(c)
Social security overall minimum.
The social security overall minimum provision of the Railroad Retirement Act guarantees that the total monthly annuities payable to an employee and his or her family will not be less than the total monthly benefit which would be payable under the Social Security Act if the employee's railroad service were credited as employment under the Social Security Act.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (b)(6) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0002)
§ 220.37
When a child's disability determination is governed by the regulations of the Social Security Administration.
(a) In order to receive an annuity based upon disability, a child of a deceased employee must be found disabled under the Railroad Retirement Act. However, in addition to this determination, the child must be found disabled under the Social Security Act in order to qualify for Medicare based upon disability.
(b) Although the child of a living employee may not receive an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act, he or she, if found disabled under the Social Security Act, may qualify for the following:
(1) Inclusion as a disabled child in the employee's annuity rate under the social security overall minimum.
(2) Entitlement to Medicare based upon disability.
§ 220.38
When a widow(er)'s disability determination is governed by the regulations of the Social Security Administration.
In order to receive an annuity based upon disability, a widow(er) must be
found disabled under the Railroad Retirement Act. However, in addition to this determination, the widow(er) must be found disabled under the Social Security Act in order to qualify for early Medicare based upon disability.
§ 220.39
Disability determination for a surviving divorced spouse or remarried widow(er).
A surviving divorced spouse or a remarried widow(er) must be found disabled under the Social Security Act in order to qualify for both an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act and early Medicare based upon disability. Disability determinations for surviving divorced spouses and remarried widow(er)s are governed by the applicable regulations of the Social Security Administration, found at § 404.1577 of this title.

# Subpart F—Evidence of Disability
§ 220.45
Providing evidence of disability.
(a)
General.
You are responsible for providing all evidence of the claimed disability and the effect of the disability on your ability to work. You must inform the Board about or submit all evidence known to you that relates to the claimed disability. This duty is ongoing and requires you to disclose any additional related evidence about which you become aware. This duty applies at each level of the administrative review process, including the appeals level, if the evidence relates to the period on or before the date of the hearings officer's decision. The Board will assist you, when necessary, in obtaining the required evidence. At its discretion, the Board will arrange for an examination by a consultant at the expense of the Board as explained in §§ 220.50 and 220.51.
(b)
Kind of evidence.
(1) You must provide medical evidence proving that you have an impairment(s) and how severe it is during the time you claim to be disabled. The Board will consider only impairment(s) you claim to have or about which the Board receives evidence. Before deciding that you are not disabled, the Board will develop a complete medical history (
i.e.,
evidence from the records of your medical sources) covering at least the preceding 12 months, unless you say that your disability began less than 12 months before you filed an application. The Board will make every reasonable effort to help you in getting medical reports from your own medical sources when you give the Board permission to request them. Every reasonable effort means that the Board will make an initial request and, after 20 days, one follow-up request to your medical source to obtain the medical evidence necessary to make a determination before the Board evaluates medical evidence obtained from another source on a consultative basis. The medical source will have 10 days from the follow-up request to reply (unless experience indicates that a longer period is advisable in a particular case). In order to expedite processing, the Board may order a consultative exam from a non-treating source while awaiting receipt of medical source evidence. If the Board asks you to do so, you must contact the medical sources to help us get the medical reports.
(2)
Exceptions.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, evidence does not include:
(i) Oral or written communications between you and your representative that are subject to the attorney-client privilege, unless you voluntarily disclose the communications to us; or
(ii) Your representative's analysis of your claim, unless you or your representative voluntarily disclose it to us. Your representative's “analysis of your claim” means information that is subject to the attorney work product doctrine, but it does not include medical evidence, medical source opinions, or any other factual matter that we may consider in determining whether or not you are entitled to benefits (see paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section).
(iii) The provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section apply to communications between you and your non-attorney representative only if the communications would be subject to the attorney-client privilege if your non-attorney representative were an attorney. The provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply to the
analysis of your claim by your non-attorney representative only if the analysis of your claim would be subject to the attorney work product doctrine if your non-attorney representative were an attorney.
(iv) The attorney-client privilege generally protects confidential communications between an attorney and the attorney's client that are related to providing or obtaining legal advice. The attorney work product doctrine generally protects an attorney's analysis, theories, mental impressions, and notes. In the context of your disability claim, neither the attorney-client privilege nor the attorney work product doctrine allows you to withhold factual information, medical source opinions, or other medical evidence that we may consider in determining whether or not you are entitled to benefits. For example, if you tell your representative about the medical sources you have seen, your representative cannot refuse to disclose the identity of those medical sources to us based on the attorney-client privilege. As another example, if your representative asks a medical source to complete an opinion form related to your impairment(s), symptoms, or limitations, your representative cannot withhold the completed opinion form from us based on the attorney work product doctrine. The attorney work product doctrine would not protect the source's opinions on the completed form, regardless of whether or not your representative used the form in an analysis of your claim or made handwritten notes on the face of the report.
(c)
Your responsibility.
You must inform us about or submit all evidence known to you that relates to whether or not you are blind or disabled. When you submit evidence received from another source, you must submit that evidence in its entirety, unless you previously submitted the same evidence to us or we instruct you otherwise. The Board may also ask you to provide evidence about:
(1) Your age;
(2) Your education and training;
(3) Your work experience;
(4) Your daily activities both before and after the date you say that you became disabled;
(5) Your efforts to work; and
(6) Any other evidence showing how your impairment(s) affects your ability to work. (In §§ 220.125 through 220.134, we discuss in more detail the evidence the Board needs when it considers vocational factors.)
[89 FR 78238, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 220.46
Medical evidence.
(a)
Acceptable medical sources.
The Board needs reports about the claimant's impairment(s) from acceptable medical sources. Acceptable medical sources are—
(1) Licensed physicians (medical or osteopathic doctors);
(2) Licensed or certified psychologists at the independent practice level;
(3) Licensed or certified school psychologists, or other licensed or certified individuals with another title who perform the same function as a school psychologist in a school setting (for impairments of intellectual disability, learning disabilities, and borderline intellectual functioning only);
(4) Licensed optometrists (for impairments of visual disorders, or for the measurement of visual acuity and visual fields only, depending on the scope of practice in the State in which the optometrist practices);
(5) Licensed podiatrists (for impairments of the foot only, or foot and ankle only, depending on the scope of practice in the State in which the podiatrist practices);
(6) Qualified speech-language pathologists (for speech or language impairments only.) For this source,
qualified
means that the speech-language pathologist must be licensed by the State professional licensing agency, or be fully certified by the State education agency in the State in which the speech-language pathologist practices, or hold a Certificate of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology from the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association;
(7) Licensed audiologists (for impairments of hearing loss, auditory processing disorders, and balance disorders within the licensed scope of practice only);
(8) Licensed Advanced Practice Registered Nurses or other licensed advance practice nurses with another
title (for impairments within the individual's licensed scope of practice only);
(9) Licensed Physician Assistants/Physician Associates (for impairments within the individual's licensed scope of practice); or
(10) Persons authorized to furnish a copy or summary of the records of a medical facility. Generally, the copy or summary should be certified as accurate by the custodian or by any authorized employee of the Railroad Retirement Board, Social Security Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, or State agency.
(b)
Other medical sources.
Individuals who are licensed as healthcare workers by a State and are working within the scope of practice permitted under State or Federal law, other than acceptable medical sources identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are other medical sources. Examples include licensed clinical social workers, naturopaths, and chiropractors. The Board will accept and consider evidence from other medical sources about the claimant's impairment(s) and the effect on the claimant's ability to work, but the presence of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment must be established with objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Medical reports.
Medical reports should include—
(1) Medical history;
(2) Clinical findings (such as the results of physical or mental status examinations);
(3) Laboratory findings (such as blood pressure, x-rays);
(4) Diagnosis (statement of disease or injury based on its signs and symptoms);
(5) Treatment prescribed, with response to treatment and prognosis; and
(6)(i) Statements about what the claimant can still do despite his or her impairment(s) based on the medical source's findings on factors in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section (except in disability claims for remarried widow's and surviving divorced spouses). (See § 220.112).
(ii) Statements about what the claimant can still do (based on the medical source's findings on factors in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section) should describe—
(A) The medical source's opinion about the claimant's ability, despite his or her impairment(s), to do work-related activities such as sitting, standing, moving about, lifting, carrying, handling objects, hearing, speaking, and traveling; and
(B) In cases of mental impairment(s), the medical source's opinion about the claimant's ability to reason or make occupational, personal, or social adjustments. (See § 220.112).
(d)
Completeness.
The medical evidence, including the clinical and laboratory findings, must be complete and detailed enough for the Board to determine whether the claimant is disabled. Specifically, it must allow the Board to determine—
(1) The nature and limiting effects of the claimant's impairment(s) for any period in question;
(2) The probable duration of the claimant's impairment(s); and
(3) The claimant's residual functional capacity to do work-related physical and mental activities.
(e)
Evidence from treating medical sources.
A statement by or the opinion of the claimant's treating medical source will not determine whether the claimant is disabled. However, the medical evidence provided by a treating medical source will be considered by the Board in making a disability decision. A treating medical source is a medical source to whom the claimant has been going for treatment on a continuing basis. The claimant may have more than one treating medical source. The Board may use consulting physicians or other medical consultants for specialized examinations or tests, to obtain more complete evidence, and to resolve any conflicts. A consulting physician is a doctor (often a specialist) to whom the claimant is referred for an examination once or on a limited basis. (See § 220.50 for an explanation of when the Board may request a consultative examination.)
(f)
Information from non-medical sources.
Information from other sources may also help the Board understand
how an impairment affects the claimant's ability to work. Other sources include—
(1) Public and private social welfare agency personnel;
(2) Family members, caregivers, friends, and neighbors of the claimant;
(3) Educational personnel such as teachers, counselors, and daycare center workers;
(4) Railroad and nonrailroad employers; and,
(5) The claimants themselves.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0038)
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 90 FR 4627, Jan. 16, 2025]
§ 220.47
Purchase of existing medical evidence.
The Board needs specific medical evidence to determine whether a claimant is disabled. The claimant is responsible for providing that evidence. However, at its discretion, the Board will pay the reasonable cost to obtain medical evidence that it needs and requests from physicians not employed by the Federal government and other non-Federal providers of medical services.
§ 220.48
If the claimant fails to submit medical or other evidence.
The Board may request a claimant to submit medical or other evidence. If the claimant does not submit that evidence, the Board will make a decision on other evidence which is either already available in the claimant's case or which the Board may develop from other sources, including reports of consultative examinations.

# Subpart G—Consultative Examinations
§ 220.50
Consultative examinations at the Board's expense.
A consultative examination is a physical or mental examination or test purchased for a claimant at the Board's request and expense. If the claimant's medical sources cannot provide sufficient medical evidence about the claimant's impairment(s) in order to enable the Board to determine whether the claimant is disabled, the Board may ask the claimant to have one or more consultative examinations or tests. The decision to purchase a consultative examination will be made on an individual case basis in accordance with the provisions of §§ 220.53 through 220.56. Selection of the source for the examination will be consistent with the provisions of § 220.64 (Program Integrity).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0124)
§ 220.51
Notice of the examination.
If the Board arranges for an examination or test, the claimant will be provided with reasonable notice of the date, time, and place of the examination or test and the name of the person who will do it. The Board will also give the examiner any necessary background information about the claimant's impairment(s).
§ 220.52
Failure to appear at a consultative examination.
(a)
General.
The Board may find that the claimant is not disabled if he or she does not have good reason for failing or refusing to take part in a consultative examination or test which was arranged by the Board. If the individual is already receiving an annuity and does not have a good reason for failing or refusing to take part in a consultative examination or test which the Board arranged, the Board may determine that the individual's disability has stopped because of his or her failure or refusal. The claimant for whom an examination or test has been scheduled should notify the Board as soon as possible before the scheduled date of the examination or test if he or she has any reason why he or she cannot go to the examination or test. If the Board finds that the claimant has a good reason for failure to appear, another examination or test will be scheduled.
(b)
Examples of good reasons for failure to appear.
Some examples of good reasons for not going to a scheduled examination or test include—
(1) Illness on the date of the scheduled examination or test;
(2) Failure to receive notice or timely notice of an examination or test;
(3) Receipt of incorrect or incomplete information about the examination or test; or
(4) A death or serious illness in the claimant's immediate family.
(c)
Objections by a claimant's physician.
The Board should be notified immediately if the claimant is advised by his or her treating physician not to take an examination or test. In some cases, the Board may be able to secure the information which is needed in another way or the treating physician may agree to another type of examination for the same purpose.
§ 220.53
When the Board will purchase a consultative examination and how it will be used.
(a)(1)
General.
The decision to purchase a consultative examination for a claimant will be made after full consideration is given to whether the additional information needed (e.g., clinical findings, laboratory tests, diagnosis, and prognosis, etc.) is readily available from the records of the claimant's medical sources. Upon filing an application for a disability annuity, a claimant will be required to obtain from his or her medical source(s) information regarding the claimed impairments. The Board will seek clarification from a medical source who has provided a report when that report contains a conflict or ambiguity, or does not contain all necessary information or when the information supplied is not based on objective evidence. The Board will not, however, seek clarification from a medical source when it is clear that the source either cannot or will not provide the necessary findings, or cannot reconcile a conflict or ambiguity in the findings provided from the source's records. Therefore, before purchasing a consultative examination, the Board will consider not only existing medical reports, but also the background report containing the claimant's allegations and information about the claimant's vocational background, as well as other pertinent evidence in his or her file.
(2) When the Board purchases a consultative examination, we will use the report from the consultative examination to try to resolve a conflict or ambiguity if one exists. The Board will do this by comparing the persuasiveness and value of the evidence. The Board will also use a consultative examination to secure needed medical evidence the file does not contain such as clinical findings, laboratory tests, a diagnosis or prognosis necessary for decision.
(b)
Situations requiring a consultative examination.
A consultative examination may be purchased when the evidence as a whole, both medical and non-medical, is not sufficient to support a decision on the claim. In addition, other situations, such as one or more of the following, will normally require a consultative examination (these situations are not all-inclusive):
(1) The specific additional evidence needed for adjudication has been pinpointed and high probability exists for obtaining it through purchase.
(2) The additional evidence needed is not contained in the records of the claimant's treating sources.
(3) Evidence that may be needed from the claimant's treating or other medical sources cannot be obtained for reasons beyond his or her control, such as death or noncooperation of the medical source.
(4) Highly technical or specialized medical evidence which is needed is not available from the claimant's treating sources.
(5) A conflict, inconsistency, ambiguity or insufficiency in the evidence must be resolved.
(6) There is an indication of a change in the claimant's condition that is likely to affect his or her ability to function, but current severity is not documented.
(7) Information provided by any source appears not to be supported by objective evidence.
§ 220.54
When the Board will not purchase a consultative examination.
A consultative examination will not be purchased in the following situations (these situations are not all-inclusive):
(a) In disabled widow(er) benefit claims, when the alleged month of disability is after the end of the 7-year period specified in § 216.38 and there is no possibility of establishing an earlier onset, or when the 7-year period expired in the past and all the medical
evidence in the claimant's file establishes that he or she was not disabled on or before the expiration date.
(b) When any issues about the actual performance of substantial gainful activity have not been resolved.
(c) In childhood disability claims, when it is determined that the claimant's alleged childhood disability did not begin before the month of attainment of age 22. In this situation, the claimant could not be entitled to benefits as a disabled child unless found disabled before age 22.
(d) When, on the basis of the claimant's allegations and all available medical reports in his or her case file, it is apparent that he or she does not have an impairment which will have more than a minimal effect on his or her capacity to work.
(e) Childhood disability claims filed concurrently with the employee's claim and entitlement cannot be established for the employee.
(f) Survivors childhood disability claims where entitlement is precluded based on non-disability factors.
§ 220.55
Purchase of consultative examinations at the reconsideration level.
(a) When a claimant requests a review of the Board's initial determination at the reconsideration level of review, consultative medical examinations will be obtained when needed, but not routinely. A consultative examination will not, if possible, be performed by the same physician or psychologist used in the initial claim.
(b) Where the evidence tends to substantiate an affirmation of the initial denial but the claimant states that the treating physician or psychologist considers him or her to be disabled, the Board will assist the claimant in securing medical reports or records from the treating physician.
§ 220.56
Securing medical evidence at the hearings officer hearing level.
(a) Where there is a conflict in the medical evidence at the hearing level of review before a hearings officer, the hearings officer will try to resolve it by comparing the persuasiveness and value of the conflicting evidence. The hearings officer's reasoning will be explained in the decision rationale. Where such resolution is not possible, the hearings officer will secure additional medical evidence (e.g., clinical findings, laboratory test, diagnosis, prognosis, etc.) to resolve the conflict. Even in the absence of a conflict, the hearings officer will also secure additional medical evidence when the file does not contain findings, laboratory tests, a diagnosis, or a prognosis necessary for a decision.
(b) Before requesting a consultative examination, the hearings officer will ascertain whether the information is available as a result of a recent examination by any of the claimant's medical sources. If it is, the hearings officer will request the evidence from that medical practitioner. If contact with the medical source is not productive for any reason, or if there is no recent examination by a medical source, the hearings officer will obtain a consultative examination.
§ 220.57
Types of purchased examinations and selection of sources.
(a)
Additional evidence needed for disability determination.
The types of examinations and tests the Board will purchase depends upon the additional evidence needed for the disability determination. The Board will purchase only the specific evidence needed. For example, if special tests (such as X-rays, blood studies, or EKG) will furnish the additional evidence needed for the disability determination, a more comprehensive medical examination will not be authorized.
(b)
The physician or psychologist selected to do the examination or test must be qualified.
The physician's or psychologist's qualifications must indicate that the physician or psychologist is currently licensed in the State and has the training and experience to perform the type of examination or test requested. The physician or psychologist may use support staff to help perform the examination. Any such support staff must meet appropriate licensing or certification requirements of the State. See also § 220.64.
(c)
Use of video teleconferencing technology.
Video teleconferencing technology (VTT) may be used for a psychological or a psychiatric consultative examination provided that the following requirements are met:
(1) The examining physician or psychologist is currently state-licensed in the state in which the provider practices;
(2) The examining physician or psychologist has the training and experience to perform the type of examination requested;
(3) The examining physician or psychologist has access to video teleconferencing technology;
(4) The examining physician or psychologist is permitted to perform the exam in accordance with state licensing laws and regulations;
(5) The protocol for the examination does not require physical contact;
(6) The claimant has the right to refuse a VTT examination without penalty; and
(7) The VTT examination complies with all requirements in this subpart governing consultative examinations.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 87 FR 27513, May 9, 2022]
§ 220.58
Objections to the designated physician or psychologist.
A claimant or his or her representative may object to his or her being examined by a designated physician or psychologist. If there is a good reason for the objection, the Board will schedule the examination with another physician or psychologist. A good reason may be where the consultative examination physician or psychologist had previously represented an interest adverse to the claimant. For example, the physician or psychologist may have represented the claimant's employer in a worker's compensation case or may have been involved in an insurance claim or legal action adverse to the claimant. Other things the Board will consider are: language barrier, office location of consultative examination physician or psychologist (2nd floor, no elevator, etc.), travel restrictions, and examination by the physician or psychologist in connection with a previous unfavorable determination. If the objection is because a physician or psychologist allegedly “lacks objectivity” (in general, but not in relation to the claimant personally) the Board will review the allegations. To avoid a delay in processing the claimant's claim, the consultative examination in such a case will be changed to another physician or psychologist while a review is being conducted. Any objection to use of the substitute physician or psychologist will be handled in the same manner. However, if the Board or the Social Security Administration had previously conducted such a review and found that the reports of the consultative physician or psychologist in question conform to the Board's guidelines, then the Board will not change the claimant's examination.
§ 220.59
Requesting examination by a specific physician, psychologist or institution—hearings officer hearing level.
In an unusual case, a hearings officer may have reason to request an examination by a particular physician, psychologist or institution. Some examples include the following:
(a) Conflicts in the existing medical evidence require resolution by a recognized authority in a particular specialty:
(b) The impairment requires hospitalization for diagnostic purposes; or
(c) The claimant's treating physician or psychologist is in the best position to submit a meaningful report.
§ 220.60
Diagnostic surgical procedures.
The Board will not order diagnostic surgical procedures such as myelograms and arteriograms for the evaluation of disability under the Board's disability program. In addition, the Board will not order procedures such as cardiac catheterization and surgical biopsy. However, if any of these procedures have been performed as part of a workup by the claimant's treating physician or other medical source, the results may be secured and used to help evaluate an impairment(s)'s severity.
§ 220.61
Informing the examining physician or psychologist of examination scheduling, report content and signature requirements.
Consulting physicians or psychologists will be fully informed at the time the Board contacts them of the following obligations:
(a)
General.
In scheduling full consultative examinations, sufficient time should be allowed to permit the examining physician to take a case history and perform the examination (including any needed tests).
(b)
Report content.
The reported results of the claimant's medical history, examination, pertinent requested laboratory findings, discussions and conclusions must conform to accepted professional standards and practices in the medical field for a complete and competent examination. The facts in a particular case and the information and findings already reported in the medical and other evidence of record will dictate the extent of detail needed in the consultative examination report for that case. Thus, the detail and format for reporting the results of a purchased examination will vary depending upon the type of examination or testing requested. The reporting of information will differ from one type of examination to another when the requested examination relates to the performance of tests such as ventilatory function tests, treadmill exercise tests, or audiological tests. The medical report must be complete enough to help the Board determine the nature, severity, duration of the impairment, and residual functional capacity. Pertinent points in the claimant's medical history, such as a description of chest pain, will reflect the claimant's statements of his or her symptoms, not simply the physician's or psychologist's statements or conclusions. The examining physician's or psychologist's report of the consultative examination will include the objective medical facts.
(c)
Elements of a complete examination.
A complete examination is one which involves all the elements of a standard examination in the applicable medical specialty. When a complete examination is involved, the report will include the following elements:
(1) The claimant's major or chief complaint(s).
(2) A detailed description, within the area of speciality of the examination, of the history of the claimant's major complaint(s).
(3) A description, and disposition, of pertinent “positive,” as well as “negative,” detailed findings based on the history, examination and laboratory test(s) related to the major complaint(s) and any other abnormalities reported or found during examination or laboratory testing.
(4) The results of laboratory and other tests (
e.g.,
x-rays) performed according to the requirements stated in the Board's directions to the examining physician or psychologist.
(5) The diagnosis and prognosis for the claimant's impairment(s).
(6) A statement as to what the claimant can still do despite his or her impairment(s) (except in disability claims for remarried widows and widowers, and surviving divorced spouses). This statement must describe the consultative physician's or psychologist's opinion concerning the claimant's ability, despite his or her impairment(s), to do basic work activities such as sitting, standing, lifting, carrying, handling objects, hearing, speaking, and traveling: and, in cases of mental impairment(s), the consultative physician's or psychologist's opinion as to the claimant's ability to reason or make occupational, personal, or social adjustments.
(7) When less than a complete examination is required (for example, a specific test or study is needed), not every element is required.
(d)
Signature requirements.
All consultative examination reports will be personally reviewed and signed by the physician or psychologist who actually performed the examination. This attests to the fact that the physician or psychologist doing the examination or testing is solely responsible for the report contents and for the conclusions, explanations or comments provided with respect to the history, examination and evaluation of laboratory test results.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63600, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.62
Reviewing reports of consultative examinations.
(a) The Board will review the report of the consultative examination to determine whether the specific information requested has been furnished. The Board will consider these factors in reviewing the report:
(1) Whether the report provides evidence which serves as an adequate basis for decision-making in terms of the impairment it assesses.
(2) Whether the report is internally consistent. Whether all the diseases, impairments and complaints described in the history are adequately assessed and reported in the physical findings. Whether the conclusions correlate the findings from the claimant's medical history, physical examination and laboratory tests and explain all abnormalities.
(3) Whether the report is consistent with the other information available to the Board within the specialty of the examination requested. Whether the report fails to mention an important or relevant complaint within the speciality that is noted on other evidence in the file (e.g., blindness in one eye, amputations, flail limbs or claw hands, etc.).
(4) Whether the report is properly signed.
(b) If the report is inadequate or incomplete, the Board will contact the examining consultative physician or psychologist, give an explanation of the Board's evidentiary needs, and ask that the physician or psychologist furnish the missing information or prepare a revised report.
(c) Where the examination discloses new diagnostic information or test results which are significant to the claimant's treatment, the Board will consider referral of the consultative examination report to the claimant's treating physician or psychologist.
(d) The Board will take steps to ensure that consultative examinations are scheduled only with medical sources who have the equipment required to provide an adequate assessment and record of the level of severity of the claimant's alleged impairments.
§ 220.63
Conflict of interest.
All implications of possible conflict of interest between Board medical consultants and their medical practices will be avoided. Board review physicians or psychologists will not perform consultative examinations for the Board's disability programs without prior approval. In addition, they will not acquire or maintain, directly or indirectly, including any member of their families, any financial interest in a medical partnership or similar relationship in which consultative examinations are provided. Sometimes one of the Board's review physicians or psychologists will have prior knowledge of a case (e.g., the claimant was a patient). Where this is so, the physician or psychologist will not participate in the review or determination of the case. This does not preclude the physician or psychologist from submitting medical evidence based on prior treatment or examination of the claimant.
§ 220.64
Program integrity.
The Board will not use in its program any individual or entity who is excluded, suspended, or otherwise barred from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or any other Federal or Federally-assisted program; who has been convicted, under Federal or State law, in connection with the delivery of health care services, of fraud, theft, embezzlement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or financial abuse; who has been convicted under Federal or State law of unlawful manufacture, distribution, prescription, or dispensing of a controlled substance; whose license to provide health care services is revoked or suspended by any State licensing authority for reasons bearing on professional competence, professional conduct, or financial integrity; who has surrendered such a license while formal disciplinary proceedings involving professional conduct were pending; or who has had a civil monetary assessment or penalty imposed on such individual or entity for any activity described in this section or as a result of formal disciplinary proceedings. Also see §§ 220.53 and 220.57(b).

# Subpart H—Evaluation of Disability
§ 220.100
Evaluation of disability for any regular employment.
(a)
General.
The Board uses a set evaluation process, explained in paragraph (b) of this section, to determine whether a claimant is disabled for any regular employment. This evaluation process applies to employees, widow(er)s, and children who have applied for annuities under the Railroad Retirement Act based on disability for any regular employment. Regular employment means substantial gainful activity as that term is defined in § 220.141.
(b)
Steps in evaluating disability.
A set order is followed to determine whether disability exists. The duration requirement, as described in § 220.28, must be met for a claimant to be found disabled. The Board reviews any current work activity, the severity of the claimant's impairment(s), the claimant's residual functional capacity, and the claimant's age, education, and work experience. If the Board finds that the claimant is disabled or is not disabled at any step in the process, the Board does not review further. (See § 220.105 if the claimant is not currently disabled but was previously disabled for a specified period of time in the past.) The steps are as follows:
(1)
Claimant is working.
If the claimant is working, and the work is substantial gainful activity, the Board will find that he or she is not disabled regardless of his or her impairments, age, education, or work experience. If the claimant is not performing substantial gainful activity, the Board will follow paragraph (2) of this section.
(2)
Impairment(s) not severe.
If the claimant does not have an impairment or combination of impairments which significantly limit his or her physical or mental ability to do basic work activities, the Board will find that the claimant is not disabled without consideration of age, education, or work experience. If the claimant has an impairment or combination of impairments which significantly limit his or her ability to do basic work activities, the Board will follow paragraph (3) of this section. (See § 220.102(b) for a definition of basic work activities.)
(3)
Impairment(s) is medically disabling.
If the claimant has an impairment or a combination of impairments which meets the duration requirement and which the Board finds is medically disabling, the Board will find the claimant disabled without considering his or her age, education or work experience. In determining whether an impairment or combination of impairments is medically disabling, the Board will consider factors such as the nature and limiting effects of the impairment(s); the effects of the treatment the claimant has undergone, is undergoing, and/or will continue to undergo; the prognosis for the claimant; medical records furnished in support of the claimant's claim; whether the severity of the impairment(s) would fall within any of the impairments included in the Listing of Impairments as issued by the Social Security Administration and as amended from time to time (20 CFR part 404, subpart P, appendix 1); or whether the impairment(s) meet such other criteria which the agency by administrative ruling of general applicability has determined to be medically disabling.
(4)
Impairment(s) must prevent past relevant work.
If the claimant's impairment or combination of impairments is not medically disabling, the Board will then review the claimant's residual functional capacity (
see
§ 220.120) and the physical and mental demands of past relevant work (see § 220.130). If the Board determines that the claimant is still able to do his or her past relevant work, the Board will find that he or she is not disabled. If the claimant is unable to do his or her past relevant work, the Board will follow paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(5)
Impairment(s) must prevent any other work.
(i) If the claimant is unable to do his or her past relevant work because of his or her impairment or combination of impairments, the Board will review the claimant's residual functional capacity and his or her age, education and work experience to determine if the claimant is able to do any other work. If the claimant cannot do other work, the Board will find him or her disabled. If the claimant can do
other work, the Board will find the claimant not disabled.
(ii) If the claimant has only a marginal education (see § 220.129) and long work experience (i.e., 35 years or more) in which he or she only did arduous unskilled physical labor, and the claimant can no longer do this kind of work, the Board will use a different rule (see § 220.127) to determine disability.
(c) Once a claimant has been found eligible to receive a disability annuity, the Board follows a somewhat different order of evaluation to determine whether the claimant's eligibility continues as explained in § 220.180.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63600, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.101
Evaluation of mental impairments.
(a)
General.
The steps outlined in § 220.100 apply to the evaluation of physical and mental impairments. In addition, in evaluating the severity of a mental impairment(s), the Board will follow a special procedure at each administrative level of review. Following this procedure will assist the Board in—
(1) Identifying additional evidence necessary for the determination of impairment severity;
(2) Considering and evaluating aspects of the mental impairment(s) relevant to the claimant's ability to work; and
(3) Organizing and presenting the findings in a clear, concise, and consistent manner.
(b)
Use of the procedure to record pertinent findings and rate the degree of functional loss.
(1) This procedure requires the Board to record the pertinent signs, symptoms, findings, functional limitations, and effects of treatment contained in the claimant's case record. This will assist the Board in determining if a mental impairment(s) exists. Whether or not a mental impairment(s) exists is decided in the same way the question of a physical impairment is decided, i.e., the evidence must be carefully reviewed and conclusions supported by it. The mental status examination and psychiatric history will ordinarily provide the needed information. (See § 220.27 for further information about what is needed to show an impairment.)
(2) If the Board determines that a mental impairment(s) exists, this procedure then requires the Board to indicate whether certain medical findings which have been found especially relevant to the ability to work are present or absent.
(3) The procedure then requires the Board to rate the degree of functional loss resulting from the impairment(s). Four areas of function considered by the Board as essential to work have been identified, and the degree of functional loss in those areas must be rated on a scale that ranges from no limitation to a level of severity which is incompatible with the ability to perform those work-related functions.
For the first two areas (activities of daily living and social functioning), the rating is done based upon the following five-point scale; none, slight, moderate, marked, and extreme. For the third area (concentration, persistence, or pace), the following five-point scale is used: never, seldom, often, frequent, and constant. For the fourth area (deterioration or decompensation in work or work-like settings), the following four-point scale is used: never, once or twice, repeated (three or more), and continual. The last two points for each of these scales represent a degree of limitation which is incompatible with the ability to perform the work-related function.
(c)
Use of the procedure to evaluate mental impairments.
Following the rating of the degree of functional loss resulting from the impairment(s), the Board then determines the severity of the mental impairment(s).
(1) If the four areas considered by the Board as essential to work have been rated to indicate a degree of limitation as “none” or “slight” in the first and second area, “never” or “seldom” in the third area, and “never” in the fourth area, the Board can generally conclude that the impairment(s) is not severe, unless the evidence otherwise indicates that there is significant limitation of the claimant's mental ability to do basic work activities (see § 220.102).
(2) If the claimant's mental impairment(s) is severe, the Board must then
determine if it is medically disabling using the Board's prior conclusions based on this procedure (i.e., the presence of certain medical findings considered by the Board as especially relevant to a claimant's ability to work and the Board's rating of functional loss resulting from the mental impairment(s)).
(3) If the claimant has a severe impairment(s), but the impairment(s) is not medically disabling, the Board will then do a residual functional capacity assessment for those claimants (employees, widow(er)s, and children) whose applications are based on disability for any regular employment under the Railroad Retirement Act.
(4) At all adjudicative levels, the Board will, in each case, incorporate the pertinent findings and conclusions based on this procedure in its decision rationale. The Board's rationale must show the significant history, including examination, laboratory findings, and functional limitations that the Board considered in reaching conclusions about the severity of the mental impairment(s).
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63600, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.102
Non-severe impairment(s), defined.
(a)
Non-severe impairment(s).
An impairment or combination of impairments is not severe if it does not significantly limit the claimant's physical or mental ability to do basic work activities.
(b)
Basic work activities.
Basic work activities means the ability and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs. Examples of these include—
(1) Physical functions such as walking, standing, sitting, lifting, pushing, pulling, reaching, carrying, or handling;
(2) Capacities for seeing, hearing, and speaking;
(3) Understanding, carrying out, and remembering simple instructions;
(4) Use of judgment;
(5) Responding appropriately to supervision, co-workers and usual work situations; and
(6) Dealing with changes in a routine work setting.
§ 220.103
Two or more unrelated impairments—initial claims.
(a)
Unrelated severe impairments.
Two or more unrelated severe impairments cannot be combined to meet the 12-month duration test. If the claimant has a severe impairment(s) and then develops another unrelated severe impairment(s) but neither one is expected to last for 12 months, he or she cannot be found disabled even though the 2 impairments in combination last for 12 months.
(b)
Concurrent impairments.
If the claimant has 2 or more concurrent impairments which, when considered in combination, are severe, the board must also determine whether the combined effect of the impairments can be expected to continue to be severe for 12 months. If 1 or more of the claimant's impairments improves or is expected to improve within 12 months, so that the combined effect of the claimant's impairments is no longer severe, he or she will be found to not meet the 12-month duration test.
§ 220.104
Multiple impairments.
To determine whether the claimant's physical or mental impairment or impairments are of a sufficient medical severity that such impairment or impairments could be the basis of eligiblity under the law, the combined effect of all of the claimant's impairments are considered regardless of whether any such impairment, if considered separately, would be of sufficient severity. If a medically severe combination of impairments is found, it will be considered throughout the disability evaluation process. If a medically severe combination of impairments is not found, the claimant will be determined to be not disabled.
§ 220.105
Initial evaluation of a previous disability.
(a) In some cases, the Board may determine that a claimant is not currently disabled but was previously disabled for a specified period of time in the past. This can occur when—
(1) The disability application was filed before the claimant's disability ended but the Board did not make the initial determination of disability
until after the claimant's disability ended; or
(2) The disability application was filed after the claimant's disability ended but no later than the 12th month after the month the disability ended.
(b) When evaluating a claim for a previous disability, the Board follows the steps in § 220.100 to determine whether a disability existed, and follows the steps in § 220.180 to determine when the disability ended.

# Example 1.
The claimant sustained multiple fractures to his left leg in an automobile accident which occurred on June 16, 1982. For a period of 18 months following the accident the claimant underwent 2 surgical procedures which restored the functional use of his leg. After a recovery period following the last surgery, the claimant returned to work on February 1, 1984.
The claimant, although fully recovered medically and regularly employed, filed an application on December 3, 1984 for a determination of disability for the period June 16, 1982 through January 31, 1984. The Board reviewed his claim in January 1985 and determined that he was disabled for the prior period which began June 16, 1982 and continued through January 31, 1984. A disability annuity is payable to the employee only for the period December 1, 1983 through January 31, 1984.
An annuity may not begin any earlier than the 1st of the 12th month before the month in which the application was filed (See part 218 of this chapter for the rules on when an annuity may begin).

# Example 2:
The claimant is disabled using the same medical facts disclosed above, beginning June 16, 1982 (the date of the automobile accident). The claimant files an application for a disability annuity, dated December 1, 1983. However, as of February 1, 1984, and before the Board makes a disability determination, the claimant returns to full-time work and is no longer considered disabled. The Board reviews the claimant's application in May 1984 and finds him disabled for the period June 16, 1982 through January 31, 1984. A disability annuity is payable to the employee from December 1, 1982 through January 31, 1984. (See part 218 of this chapter for the rules on when an annuity may begin).

# Subpart I—Medical Considerations
§ 220.110
Medically disabled.
(a) “
Medically disabled.”
The term “medically disabled ”refers to disability based solely on impairment(s) which are considered to be so medically severe as to prevent a person from doing any substantial gainful activity. The Board will base its decision about whether the claimant's impairment(s) is medically disabling on medical evidence only, without consideration of the claimant's residual functional capacity, age, education or work experience. The Board will also consider the medical opinion given by one or more physicians employed or engaged by the Board or the Social Security Administration to make medical judgments. The medical evidence used to establish a diagnosis or confirm the existence of an impairment, and to establish the severity of the impairment includes medical findings consisting of signs, symptoms and laboratory findings. The medical findings must be based on medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques. If the claimant has more than one impairment, but none of the impairments, by themselves, is medically disabling, the Board will review the signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings of all of the impairments to determine whether the combination of impairments is medically disabling. In general, impairments that the Board considers to be medically disabling are:
(1) Permanent;
(2) Expected to result in death; or
(3) Have a specific length of duration.
(b)
Diagnosis of impairments.
A diagnosis of a particular impairment is not sufficient for a finding of medical disability, unless the diagnosis is supported by medical findings that are based on medically acceptable clinical and laboratory techniques.
(c)
Addiction to alcohol or drugs.
If a claimant has a condition diagnosed as addiction to alcohol or drugs, this condition will not, by itself, be a basis for determining whether the claimant is, or is not, disabled. As with any other medical condition, the Board will decide whether the claimant is disabled based on symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings.
[74 FR 63601, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.111
[Reserved]
§ 220.112
Conclusions by physicians concerning the claimant's disability.
(a)
General.
Under the statute, the Board is responsible for making the decision about whether a claimant meets the statutory definition of disability. A claimant can only be found disabled if he or she is unable to do any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. (See § 220.28). A claimant's impairment must result from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities which are demonstrable by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques. (See § 220.27). The decision as to whether a claimant is disabled may involve more than medical considerations and the Board may have to consider such factors as age, education and past work experience. Such vocational factors are not within the expertise of medical sources.
(b)
Medical opinions that are conclusive.
A medical opinion by a treating source will be conclusive as to the medical issues of the nature and severity of a claimant's impairment(s) where the Board finds that (1) it is fully supported by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques and (2) it is not inconsistent with the other substantial medical evidence of record. A medical opinion that is not fully supported will not be conclusive.
(c)
Medical opinions that are not fully supported.
If an opinion by a treating source(s) is not fully supported, the Board will make every reasonable effort (i.e., an initial request and, after 20 days, one follow-up request) to obtain from the claimant's treating source(s) the relevant evidence that supports the medical opinion(s) before the Board makes a determination as to whether a claimant is disabled.

# Example:
In a case involving an organic mental disorder caused by trauma to the head, a consultative physician, upon interview with the claimant, found only mild disorientation as to time and place. The claimant's treating physician reports that the claimant, as the result of his impairment, has severe disorientation as to time and place. The treating physician supplies office notes which follow the course of the claimant's illness from the date of injury to the present. These notes indicate that the claimant's condition is such that he has some “good days” on which he appears to be unimpaired, but generally support the treating physician's opinion that the claimant is severely impaired. In this case the treating physician's opinion will be given some weight over that of the consultative physician.
(d)
Inconsistent medical opinions.
Where the Board finds that the opinion of a treating source regarding medical issues is inconsistent with the evidence of record, including opinions of other sources that are supported by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, the Board must resolve the inconsistency. If necessary to resolve the inconsistency, the Board will secure additional independent evidence and/or further interpretation or explanation from the treating source(s) and/or the consultative physician or psychologist. The Board's determination will be based on all the evidence in the case record, including the opinions of the medical sources. In resolving an inconsistency, the Board will give some extra weight to the treating source's supported opinion(s) which interprets the medical findings about the nature and severity of the impairment(s).

# Example:
In a case involving arthritis of the shoulder, where the X-rays confirm bone destruction, the examinations indicate minimal swelling and inflammation, but the treating source supplies evidence of greater restriction in the range of motion than found by the consultative physician, the Board will ask the treating source for further interpretation of the range of motion studies. If the treating source supplies a reasonable explanation. e.g., that the individual's condition is subject to periods of aggravation, the treating source's explanation will be given some extra weight over that of the consultative physician.
(e)
Medical opinions that will not be considered conclusive nor given extra weight.
The Board will not consider as conclusive nor give extra weight to medical opinions which are not in accord with the statutory or regulatory
standards for establishing disability. Thus, opinions that the individual's impairments are medically disabling where the medical findings which are the basis for that conclusion would not support an impairment so severe as to preclude any substantial gainful activity will not be conclusive nor given extra weight. Likewise, an opinion(s) as to the individual's residual functional capacity which is not in accord with regulatory requirements set forth in §§ 220.120 and 220.121 will not be conclusive nor given extra weight.

# Example 1:
A medical opinion states that a claimant is disabled based on blindness, but findings show functional visual accuity in the better eye, after best correction, of 20/100. That medical opinion would not be conclusive or given extra weight.

# Example 2:
A medical opinion that the individual is limited to light work when the evidence shows that he or she can lift a maximum of 50 pounds and lift 25 pounds frequently will not be considered as conclusive nor given extra weight. This is because the individual's exertional capacity exceeds the criteria set forth in the regulations for light work.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 60291, Oct. 22, 2003; 74 FR 63601, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.113
Symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings.
Medical findings consist of symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings:
(a)
Symptoms
are the claimant's own description of his or her physical or mental impairment(s). The claimant's statements alone are not enough to establish that there is a physical or mental impairment(s).
(b)
Signs
are anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities which can be observed, apart from the claimant's own statements (symptoms). Signs must be shown by medically acceptable clinical diagnostic techniques. Psychiatric signs are medically demonstrable phenomena which indicate specific abnormalities of behavior, affect, thought, memory, orientation and contact with reality. They must also be shown by observable facts that can be medically described and evaluated.
(c)
Laboratory findings
are anatomical, physiological, or psychological phenomena which can be shown by the use of medically acceptable laboratory diagnostic techniques. Some of these diagnostic techniques include chemical tests, electrophysiological studies (electrocardiogram, electroencephalogram, etc.) x-rays, and psychological tests.
§ 220.114
Evaluation of symptoms, including pain.
(a)
General.
In determining whether the claimant is disabled, the Board considers all of the claimant's symptoms, including pain, and the extent to which the claimant's symptoms can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence. By objective medical evidence, the Board means medical signs and laboratory findings as defined in §§ 220.113(b) and (c) of this part. By other evidence, the Board means the kinds of evidence described in §§ 220.45 and 220.46 of this part. These include statements or reports from the claimant, the claimant's treating or examining physician or psychologist, and others about the claimant's medical history, diagnosis, prescribed treatment, daily activities, efforts to work, and any other evidence showing how the claimant's impairment(s) and any related symptoms affect the claimant's ability to work. The Board will consider all of the claimant's statements about his or her symptoms, such as pain, and any description by the claimant, the claimant's physician, or psychologist, or other persons about how the symptoms affect the claimant's activities of daily living and ability to work. However, statements alone about the claimant's pain or other symptoms will not establish that the claimant is disabled; there must be medical signs and laboratory findings which show that the claimant has a medical impairment(s) which could reasonably be expected to produce the pain or other symptoms alleged and which, when considered with all of the other evidence (including statements about the intensity and persistence of the claimant's pain or other symptoms which may reasonably be accepted as consistent with the medical signs and laboratory findings), would lead to a conclusion that the claimant is disabled. In evaluating the intensity and
persistence of the claimant's symptoms, including pain, the Board will consider all of the available evidence, including the claimant's medical history, the medical signs and laboratory findings and statements about how the claimant's symptoms affect the claimant. (Section 220.112(b) of this part explains how the Board considers opinions of the claimant's treating source and other medical opinions on the existence and severity of the claimant's symptoms, such as pain.) The Board will then determine the extent to which the claimant's alleged functional limitations and restrictions due to pain or other symptoms can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the medical signs and laboratory findings and other evidence to decide how the claimant's symptoms affect the claimant's ability to work.
(b)
Need for medically determinable impairment that could reasonably be expected to produce symptoms, such as pain.
The claimant's symptoms, such as pain, fatigue, shortness of breath, weakness, or nervousness, will not be found to affect the claimant's ability to do basic work activities unless medical signs or laboratory findings show that a medically determinable impairment(s) is present. Medical signs and laboratory findings, established by medically acceptable clinical or laboratory diagnostic techniques, must show the existence of a medical impairment(s) which results from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities and which could reasonably be expected to produce the pain or other symptoms alleged. The finding that the claimant's impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce the claimant's pain or other symptoms does not involve a determination as to the intensity, persistence, or functionally limiting effects of the claimant's symptoms. The Board will develop evidence regarding the possibility of a medically determinable mental impairment when the Board has information to suggest that such an impairment exists, and the claimant alleges pain or other symptoms but the medical signs and laboratory findings do not substantiate any physical impairment(s) capable of producing the pain or other symptoms.
(c)
Evaluating the intensity and persistence of symptoms, such as pain, and determining the extent to which the claimant's symptoms limit his or her capacity for work
—(1)
General.
When the medical signs or laboratory findings show that the claimant has a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce the claimant's symptoms, such as pain, the Board must then evaluate the intensity and persistence of the claimant's symptoms so that it can determine how the claimant's symptoms limit the claimant's capacity for work. In evaluating the intensity and persistence of the claimant's symptoms, the Board considers all of the available evidence, including the claimant's medical history, the medical signs and laboratory findings, and statements from the claimant, the claimant's treating or examining physician or psychologist, or other persons about how the claimant's symptoms affect the claimant. The Board also considers the medical opinions of the claimant's treating source and other medical opinions as explained in § 220.112 of this part. Paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section explain further how the Board evaluates the intensity and persistence of the claimant's symptoms and how it determines the extent to which the claimant's symptoms limit the claimant's capacity for work, when the medical signs or laboratory findings show that the claimant has a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce the claimant's symptoms, such as pain.
(2)
Consideration of objective medical evidence.
Objective medical evidence is evidence obtained from the application of medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, such as evidence of reduced joint motion, muscle spasm, sensory deficit or motor disruption. Objective medical evidence of this type is a useful indicator to assist the Board in making reasonable conclusions about the intensity and persistence of the claimant's symptoms and the effect those symptoms, such as pain, may have on the claimant's ability to work. The Board must always attempt to obtain objective medical evidence and, when it is obtained, the Board will consider it in reaching a
conclusion as to whether the claimant is disabled. However, the Board will not reject the claimant's statements about the intensity and persistence of the claimant's pain or other symptoms or about the effect the claimant's symptoms have on the claimant's ability to work solely because the available objective medical evidence does not substantiate the claimant's statements.
(3)
Consideration of other evidence.
Since symptoms sometimes suggest a greater severity of impairment than can be shown by objective medical evidence alone, the Board will carefully consider any other information the claimant may submit about his or her symptoms. The information that the claimant, the claimant's treating or examining physician or psychologist, or other persons provide about the claimant's pain or other symptoms (
e.g.,
what may precipitate or aggravate the claimant's symptoms, what medications, treatments or other methods he or she uses to alleviate them, and how the symptoms may affect the claimant's pattern of daily living) is also an important indicator of the intensity and persistence of the claimant's symptoms. Because symptoms, such as pain, are subjective and difficult to quantify, any symptom-related functional limitations and restrictions which the claimant, his or her treating or examining physician or psychologist, or other persons report, which can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence, will be taken into account as explained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section in reaching a conclusion as to whether the claimant is disabled. The Board will consider all of the evidence presented, including information about the claimant's prior work record, the claimant's statements about his or her symptoms, evidence submitted by the claimant's treating, examining or consulting physician or psychologist, and observations by Board employees and other persons. Section 220.112 of this part explains in detail how the Board considers and weighs treating source and other medical opinions about the nature and severity of the claimant's impairment(s) and any related symptoms, such as pain. Factors relevant to the claimant's symptoms, such as pain, which the Board will consider include:
(i) The claimant's daily activities;
(ii) The location, duration, frequency, and intensity of the claimant's pain or other symptoms;
(iii) Precipitating and aggravating factors;
(iv) The type, dosage, effectiveness, and side effects of any medication the claimant takes or has taken to alleviate the claimant's pain or other symptoms;
(v) Treatment, other than medication, the claimant receives or has received for relief of pain or other symptoms;
(vi) Any measures the claimant uses or has used to relieve pain or other symptoms (
e.g.,
lying flat on the claimant's back, standing for 15 to 20 minutes every hour, sleeping on a board, etc.); and
(vii) Other factors concerning the claimant's functional limitations and restrictions due to pain or other symptoms.
(4)
How the Board determines the extent to which symptoms, such as pain, affect the claimant's capacity to perform basic work activities.
In determining the extent to which the claimant's symptoms, such as pain, affect the claimant's capacity to perform basic work activities, the Board considers all of the available evidence described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section. The Board will consider the claimant's statements about the intensity, persistence, and limiting effects of the claimant's symptoms, and the Board will evaluate the claimant's statements in relation to the objective medical evidence and other evidence, in reaching a conclusion as to whether the claimant is disabled. The Board will consider whether there are any inconsistencies in the evidence and the extent to which there are any conflicts between the claimant's statements and the rest of the evidence, including the claimant's medical history, the medical signs and laboratory findings, and statements by the claimant's treating or examining physician or psychologist or other persons about how the claimant's symptoms affect the claimant. The claimant's symptoms, including
pain, will be determined to diminish the claimant's capacity for basic work activities to the extent that the claimant's alleged functional limitations and restrictions due to symptoms, such as pain, can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence.
(d)
Consideration of symptoms in the disability determination process.
The Board follows a set order of steps to determine whether the claimant is disabled. If the claimant is not doing substantial gainful activity, the Board considers the claimant's symptoms, such as pain, to evaluate whether the claimant has a severe physical or mental impairment(s), and at each of the remaining steps in the process. Section 220.100 explains this process in detail. The Board also considers the claimant's symptoms, such as pain, at the appropriate steps in the Board's review when the Board considers whether the claimant's disability continues. Subpart O of this part explains the procedure the Board follows in reviewing whether the claimant's disability continues.
(1)
Need to establish a severe medically determinable impairment(s).
The claimant's symptoms, such as pain, fatigue, shortness of breath, weakness, or nervousness, are considered in making a determination as to whether the claimant's impairment or combination of impairment(s) is severe. (
See
§ 220.100(b)(2) of this part).
(2)
Decision of whether impairment(s) is medically disabling.
The Board will not substitute the claimant's allegations of pain or other symptoms for a missing or deficient sign or laboratory finding to raise the severity of the claimant's impairment(s) to that of being medically disabling. If the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of the claimant's impairment(s) are found by the Board to be so severe as to prevent any substantial gainful activity, the Board will find the claimant disabled. If it does not, the Board will consider the impact of the claimant's symptoms on the claimant's residual functional capacity. (
See
paragraph (d)(3) of this section.)
(3)
Impact of symptoms (including pain) on residual functional capacity.
If the claimant has a medically determinable severe physical or mental impairment(s), but the claimant's impairment(s) is not medically disabling, the Board will consider the impact of the claimant's impairment(s) and any related symptoms, including pain, on the claimant's residual functional capacity. (
See
§ 220.120 of this part.)
[68 FR 60291, Oct. 22, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 63601, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.115
Need to follow prescribed treatment.
(a)
What treatment the claimant must follow.
In order to get a disability annuity, the claimant must follow treatment prescribed by his or her physician if this treatment can restore the claimant's ability to work.
(b)
When the claimant does not follow prescribed treatment.
If the claimant does not follow the prescribed treatment without a good reason, the Board will find him or her not disabled or, if the claimant is already receiving a disability annuity, the Board will stop paying the annuity.
(c)
Acceptable reasons for failure to follow prescribed treatment.
The following are examples of a good reason for not following treatment:
(1) The specific medical treatment is contrary to the established teaching and tenets of the claimant's religion.
(2) The prescribed treatment would be cataract surgery for one eye, when there is an impairment of the other eye resulting in a severe loss of vision and is not subject to improvement through surgery.
(3) Surgery was previously performed with unsuccessful results and the same surgery is again being recommended for the same impairment.
(4) The treatment because of its magnitude (e.g., open heart surgery), unusual nature (e.g., organ transplant), or other reason is very risky for the claimant.
(5) The treatment involves amputation of an extremity, or a major part of an extremity.

# Subpart J—Residual Functional Capacity
§ 220.120
The claimant's residual functional capacity.
(a)
General.
The claimant's impairment(s), and any related symptoms, such as pain, may cause physical and mental limitations that affect what the claimant can do in a work setting. The claimant's residual functional capacity is what the claimant can still do despite the claimant's limitations. If the claimant has more than one impairment, the Board will consider all of the claimant's impairment(s) of which the Board is aware. The Board will consider the claimant's ability to meet certain demands of jobs, such as physical demands, mental demands, sensory requirements, and other functions, as described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. Residual functional capacity is an assessment based upon all of the relevant evidence. It may include descriptions (even the claimant's own) of limitations that go beyond the symptoms, such as pain, that are important in the diagnosis and treatment of the claimant's medical condition. Observations by the claimant's treating or examining physicians or psychologists, the claimant's family, neighbors, friends, or other persons, of the claimant's limitations, in addition to those observations usually made during formal medical examinations, may also be used. These descriptions and observations, when used, must be considered along with the claimant's medical records to enable us to decide to what extent the claimant's impairment(s) keeps the claimant from performing particular work activities. This assessment of the claimant's remaining capacity for work is not a decision on whether the claimant is disabled, but is used as the basis for determining the particular types of work the claimant may be able to do despite the claimant's impairment(s). Then, using the guidelines in §§ 220.125 and 220.134 of this part the claimant's vocational background is considered along with the claimant's residual functional capacity in arriving at a disability determination or decision. In deciding whether the claimant's disability continues or ends, the residual functional capacity assessment may also be used to determine whether any medical improvement the claimant has experienced is related to the claimant's ability to work as discussed in § 220.178 of this part.
(b)
Physical abilities.
When the Board assesses the claimant's physical abilities, the Board first assesses the nature and extent of the claimant's physical limitations and then determines the claimant's residual functional capacity for work activity on a regular and continuing basis. A limited ability to perform certain physical demands of work activity, such as sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, pulling, or other physical functions (including manipulative or postural functions, such as reaching, handling, stooping or crouching), may reduce the claimant's ability to do past work and other work.
(c)
Mental abilities.
When the Board assesses the claimant's mental abilities, the Board first assesses the nature and extent of the claimant's mental limitations and restrictions and then determines the claimant's residual functional capacity for work activity on a regular and continuing basis. A limited ability to carry out certain mental activities, such as limitations in understanding, remembering, and carrying out instructions, and in responding appropriately to supervision, co-workers, and work pressures in a work setting, may reduce the claimant's ability to do past work and other work.
(d)
Other abilities affected by impairment(s).
Some medically determinable impairment(s), such as skin impairment(s), epilepsy, impairment(s) of vision, hearing or other senses, and impairment(s) which impose environmental restrictions, may cause limitations and restrictions which affect other work-related abilities. If the claimant has this type of impairment(s), the Board considers any resulting limitations and restrictions which may reduce the claimant's ability to do past work and other work in deciding the claimant's residual functional capacity.
(e)
Total limiting effects.
When the claimant has a severe impairment(s), but the claimant's symptoms, signs,
and laboratory findings are not medically disabling, the Board will consider the limiting effects of all of the claimant's impairment(s), even those that are not severe, in determining the claimant's residual functional capacity. Pain or other symptoms may cause a limitation of function beyond that which can be determined on the basis of the anatomical, physiological or psychological abnormalities considered alone; e.g., someone with a low back disorder may be fully capable of the physical demands consistent with those of sustained medium work activity, but another person with the same disorder, because of pain, may not be capable of more than the physical demands consistent with those of light work activity on a sustained basis. In assessing the total limiting effects of the claimant's impairment(s) and any related symptoms, the Board will consider all of the medical and non-medical evidence, including the information described in § 220.114 of this part.
[68 FR 60293, Oct. 22, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 63601, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.121
Responsibility for assessing and determining residual functional capacity.
(a) For cases at the initial or reconsideration level, the responsibility for determining residual functional capacity rests with the bureau of retirement claims. This assessment is based on all the evidence the Board has, including any statements regarding what the claimant can still do that have been provided by treating or examining physicians, consultative physicians, or any other physician designated by the Board. In any case where there is evidence which indicates the existence of a mental impairment, the bureau of retirement claims will not make a residual functional capacity determination without making every reasonable effort to ensure that a qualified psychiatrist or psychologist has provided a medical review of the case.
(b) For cases at the hearing level or the three-member-Board review level, the responsibility for deciding residual functional capacity rests with the hearings officer or the three-member Board, respectively.

# Subpart K—Vocational Considerations
§ 220.125
When vocational background is considered.
(a)
General.
The Board will consider vocational factors when the claimant is applying for—
(1) An employee annuity based on disability for any regular employment; (See § 220.45(b))
(2) Widow(er) disability annuity; or
(3) Child's disability annuity based on disability before age 22.
(b)
Disability determinations in which vocational factors must be considered along with medical evidence.
When the Board cannot decide whether the claimant is disabled on medical evidence alone, the Board must use other evidence.
(1) The Board will use information from the claimant about his or her age, education, and work experience.
(2) The Board will consider the doctors' reports, and hospital records, as well as the claimant's own statements and other evidence to determine a claimant's residual functional capacity and how it affects the work the claimant can do. Sometimes, to do this, the Board will need to ask the claimant to have special examinations or tests. (See § 220.50.)
(3) If the Board finds that the claimant can no longer do the work he or she has done in the past, the Board will determine whether the claimant can do other work (jobs) which exist in significant numbers in the national economy.
§ 220.126
Relationship of ability to do work and residual functional capacity.
(a) If the claimant can do his or her previous work (his or her usual work or other applicable past work), the Board will determine he or she is not disabled.
(b) If the residual functional capacity is not enough for the claimant to do any of his or her previous work, the Board must still decide if the claimant can do any other work. To determine whether the claimant can do other work, the Board will consider the claimant's residual functional capacity, and his or her age, education, and work experience. Any work (jobs) that
the claimant can do must exist in significant numbers in the national economy (either in the region where he or she lives or in several regions of the country).
§ 220.127
When the only work experience is arduous unskilled physical labor.
(a)
Arduous work.
Arduous work is primarily physical work requiring a high level of strength or endurance. The Board will consider the claimant unable to do lighter work and therefore, disabled if he or she has—
(1) A marginal education (see § 220.129);
(2) Work experience of 35 years or more during which he or she did arduous unskilled physical labor; and
(3) A severe impairment which no longer allows him or her to do arduous unskilled physical labor.
(b)
Exceptions.
The Board may consider the claimant not disabled if—
(1) The claimant is working or has worked despite his or her impairment(s) (except where work is sporadic or not medically advisable); or
(2) Evidence shows that the claimant has training or past work experience which enables him or her to do substantial gainful activity in another occupation with his or her impairment, either full-time or on reasonably regular part-time basis.

# Example:
B is a 60-year-old miner with a 4th grade education who has a life-long history of arduous physical labor. B says that he is disabled because of arthritis of the spine, hips, and knees, and other impairments. Medical evidence shows a combination of impairments and establishes that these impairments prevent B from performing his usual work or any other type of arduous physical labor. His vocational background does not show that he has skills or capabilities needed to do lighter work which would be readily transferable to another work setting. Under these circumstances, the Board will find that B is disabled.
§ 220.128
Age as a vocational factor.
(a)
General.
(1)
Age
refers to how old the claimaint is (chronological age) and the extent to which his or her age affects his or her ability to—
(i) Adapt to a new work situation; and
(ii) Do work in competition with others.
(2) In determining disability, the Board does not consider age alone. The Board must also consider the claimant's residual functional capacity, education, and work experience. If the claimant is unemployed because of his or her age and can still do a significant number of jobs which exist in the national economy, the Board will find that he or she is not disabled. Appendix 2 of this part explains in detail how the Board considers age as a vocational factor. However, the Board does not apply these age categories mechanically in a borderline situation.
(b)
Younger person.
If the claimant is under age 50, the Board generally does not consider that his or her age will seriously affect the ability to adapt to a new work situation. In some circumstances, the Board considers age 45 a handicap in adapting to a new work setting (see Rule 201.17 in appendix 2 of this part).
(c)
Person approaching advanced age.
If the claimant is closely approaching advanced age (50-54), the Board considers that the claimant's age, along with a severe impairment and limited work experience, may seriously affect the claimant's ability to adjust to a significant number of jobs in the national economy.
(d)
Person of advanced age.
The Board considers that advanced age (55 or over) is the point at which age significantly affects the claimant's ability to do substantial gainful activity.
(1) If the claimant is severly impaired and of advanced age, and he or she cannot do medium work (see § 220.132), the claimant may not be able to work unless he or she has skills that can be used in less demanding jobs which exist in significant numbers in the national economy.
(2) If the claimant is close to retirement age (60-64) and has a severe impairment, the Board will not consider him or her able to adjust to sedentary or light work unless the claimant has skills which are highly marketable.
§ 220.129
Education as a vocational factor.
(a)
General.
“Education” is primarily used to mean formal schooling or other
training which contributes to the claimant's ability to meet vocational requirements, for example, reasoning ability, communication skills, and arithmetical ability. If the claimant does not have formal schooling, this does not necessarily mean that the claimant is uneducated or lacks these abilities. Past work experience and the kinds of responsibilities the claimant had when he or she was working may show that he or she has intellectual abilities, although the claimant may have little formal education. A claimant's daily activities, hobbies, or the results of testing may also show that the claimant has significant intellectual ability that can be used to work.
(b)
How the Board evaluates the claimant's education.
The importance of the claimant's educational background may depend upon how much time has passed between the completion of the claimant's formal education and the beginning of the claimant's physical or mental impairment(s) and what the claimant has done with his or her education in a work or other setting. Formal education completed many years before the claimant's impairment(s) began, or unused skills and knowledge that were a part of the claimant's formal education, may no longer be useful or meaningful in terms of ability to work. Therefore, the numerical grade level that the claimant completed in school may not represent his or her actual educational abilities. These educational abilities may be higher or lower than the numerical grade level that the claimant completed. However, if there is no other evidence to contradict it, the Board uses the claimant's numerical grade level to determine the claimant's educational abilities. The term “education” also includes how well the claimant is able to communicate in English since this ability is often acquired or improved by education. In evaluating the claimant's educational level, the Board uses the following categories:
(1)
Illiteracy.
Illiteracy means the inability to read or write. The Board will consider the claimant illiterate if he or she cannot read or write a simple message such as instructions or inventory lists even though the claimant can sign his or her name. Generally, the illiterate claimant has had little or no formal schooling.
(2)
Marginal education.
Marginal education means ability in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills which are needed to do simple, unskilled types of jobs. Generally, this means a 6th grade or less level of education.
(3)
Limited education.
Limited education means ability in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills, but not enough to allow a person with these educational qualifications to do most of the more complex duties needed in semi-skilled or skilled jobs. Generally, a limited education is a 7th grade through 11th grade level of education.
(4)
High school education and above.
High school and above means abilities in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills acquired through formal schooling at a 12th grade level or above. The claimant with this level of education is generally considered able to do semi-skilled through skilled work.
(5)
Inability to communicate in English.
Since the ability to speak, read, and understand English is generally learned or increased at school, the Board may consider this an educational factor. Because English is the dominant language of the country, it may be difficult for the claimant who does not speak and understand English to do a job, regardless of the amount of education he or she may have in another language. The claimant's ability to speak, read and understand English will be considered when the Board evaluates what work, if any, he or she can do.
(6)
Information about the claimant's education.
The Board will ask the claimant how long he or she attended school and whether he or she can speak, understand, read and write in English, and do at least simple calculations in arithmetic. The Board will also consider information about how much formal or informal education the claimant received from his or her previous work, community projects, hobbies and any other activities which might help him or her to work.
§ 220.130
Work experience as a vocational factor.
(a)
General.
Work experience
means skills and abilities the claimant has acquired through work he or she has done which show the type of work he or she may be expected to do. Work the claimant has already been able to do shows the kind of work that he or she may be expected to do. The Board considers that the claimant's work experience is relevant and applies when it was done within the last 15 years, lasted long enough for him or her to learn to do it, and was substantial gainful activity. This work experience is called “past relevant work.” The Board does not usually consider that work the claimant did 15 years or more before the time the Board is deciding whether he or she is disabled (or when the disability insured status requirement was last met, if earlier) applies. A gradual change occurs in most jobs so that after 15 years, it is no longer realistic to expect that skills and abilities acquired in a job done then continue to apply. The 15-year guide is intended to insure that remote work experience is not currently applied. If the claimant has no work experience or worked only “off-and-on” or for brief periods of time during the 15-year period, the Board generally considers that these do not apply. If the claimant has acquired skills through his or her past work, the Board considers the claimant to have these work skills unless he or she cannot use them in other skilled or semi-skilled work that he or she can do. If the claimant cannot use his or her skills in other skilled or semi-skilled work, the Board will consider his or her work background the same as unskilled. However, even if the claimant has no work experience, the Board may consider that the claimant is able to do unskilled work because it requires little or no judgment and can be learned in a short period of time.
(b)
Information about the claimant's work.
(1) Sometimes the Board will need information about the claimant's past work to make a disability determination. The Board may request work information from—
(i) The claimant; and
(ii) The claimant's employer or other person who knows about the claimant's work (member of family or co-worker) with the claimant's permission.
(2) The Board will ask for the following information about all the jobs the claimant has had in the last 15 years:
(i) The dates the claimant worked.
(ii) All the duties the claimant did.
(iii) Any tools, machinery, and equipment the claimant used.
(iv) The amount of walking, standing, sitting, lifting and carrying the claimant did during the work day, as well as any other physical and mental duties of the job.
(3) If all the claimant's work in the past 15 years has been arduous and unskilled, and the claimant has very little education, the Board will ask the claimant to tell about all of his or her work from the time he or she first began working. (See § 220.45(b).)
§ 220.131
Work which exists in the national economy.
(a)
General.
The Board considers that work exists in the national economy when it exists in significant numbers either in the region where the claimant lives or in several other regions of the country. It does not matter whether—
(1) Work exits in the immediate area in which the claimant lives,
(2) A specific job vacancy exists for the claimant; or
(3) The claimant would be hired if the claimant applied for work.
(b)
How the Board determines the existence of work.
Work exists in the national economy when there are a significant number of jobs (in one or more occupations) having requirements which the claimant is able to meet with his or her physical or mental ability and vocational qualifications. Isolated jobs that exist in very limited numbers in relatively few locations outside the region where the claimant lives are not considered “work which exists in the national economy.” The Board will not deny the claimant a disability annuity on the basis of the existence of these kinds of jobs. The Board will determine that the claimant is disabled if the work he or she can do does not exist in the national economy. If the work the claimant can do does exist in the national economy, the
Board will determine that the claimant is not disabled.
(c)
Inability to obtain work.
The Board will determine that the claimant is not disabled if he or she has the residual functional capacity and vocational abilities to do work which exists in the national economy but the claimant remains unemployed because of—
(1) His or her inability to get work;
(2) Lack of work in his or her local area;
(3) The hiring practices of employers;
(4) Technological changes in the industry in which the claimant has worked;
(5) Cyclical economic conditions;
(6) No job openings for the claimant;
(7) The claimant not actually being hired to do work he or she could otherwise do; or
(8) The claimant not wishing to do a particular type of work.
(d)
Administrative notice of job data.
The following sources are used when the Board determines that unskilled, sedentary, light and medium jobs exist in the national economy:
(1)
Dictionary of Occupational Titles,
published by the Department of Labor.
(2)
County Business Patterns,
published by the Bureau of the Census.
(3)
Census Reports,
also published by the Bureau of the Census.
(4)
Occupational Analyses,
prepared for the Social Security Administration by various State employment agencies.
(5)
Occupational Outlook Handbook,
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(e)
Use of vocational experts and other specialists.
If the issue in determining whether the claimant is disabled is whether his or her work skills can be used in other work and the specific occupations in which they can be used, or there is a similarly complex issue, the Board may use the services of a vocational expert or other specialist. The Board will decide whether to use a vocational expert or other specialist.
§ 220.132
Physical exertion requirements.
To determine the physical exertion requirements of work in the national economy, jobs are classified as “sedentary”, “light”, “medium”, “heavy”, and “very heavy.” These terms have the same meaning as they have in the Dictionary of Occupational Titles, published by the Department of Labor. In making disability determinations the Board uses the following definitions:
(a)
Sedentary work.
Sedentary work involves lifting no more than 10 pounds at a time and occasionally lifting or carrying articles like docket files, ledgers, and small tools. Although a sedentary job is defined as one which involves sitting, a certain amount of walking and standing is often necessary in carrying out job duties. Jobs are sedentary if walking and standing are required occasionally and the other sedentary criteria are met.
(b)
Light work.
Light work involves lifting no more than 20 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 10 pounds. Even though the weight lifted may be very little, a job is in this category when it requires a good deal of walking or standing, or when it involves sitting most of the time with some pushing and pulling of arm or leg controls. To be considered capable of performing a full or wide range of light work, the claimant must have the ability to do substantially all of these activities. If the claimant can do light work, the Board determines that he or she can also do sedentary work, unless there are additional limiting factors such as loss of fine dexerity or inability to sit for long periods of time.
(c)
Medium work.
Medium work involves lifting no more than 50 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 25 pounds. If the claimant can do medium work, the Board determines that he or she can also do sedentary and light work.
(d)
Heavy work.
Heavy work involves lifting no more than 100 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 50 pounds. If the claimant can do heavy work, the Board determines that he or she can also do medium, light, and sedentary work.
(e)
Very heavy work.
Very heavy work involves lifting objects weighing more than 100 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing 50 pounds or more. If the claimant can
do very heavy work, the Board determines that he or she can also do heavy, medium, light and sedentary work.
§ 220.133
Skill requirements.
(a)
General.
To evaluate skills and to help determine the existence in the national economy of work the claimant is able to do, occupations are classified as unskilled, semi-skilled, and skilled. In classifying these occupations, the Board uses materials published by the Department of Labor.
(b)
Unskilled work.
Unskilled work is work which needs little or no judgment to do simple duties that can be learned on the job in a short period of time (30 days). The job may or may not require considerable strength. A job is considered unskilled if the claimant can usually learn to do the job in 30 days, and little job training and judgment are needed. The claimant does not gain work skills by doing unskilled jobs. For example, jobs are considered unskilled if primary work duties are—
(1) Handling;
(2) Feeding;
(3) Offbearing (placing or removing materials from machines which are automatic or operated by others); or
(4) Machine tending.
(c)
Semi-skilled work.
Semi-skilled work is work which needs some skills but does not require doing the more complex work duties. A job may be classified as semi-skilled where coordination and dexterity are necessary, as when hand or feet must be moved quickly to do repetitive tasks. Semi-skilled jobs may require—
(1) Alertness and close attention to watching machine processes;
(2) Inspecting, testing, or otherwise looking for irregularities;
(3) Tending or guarding equipment, property, materials, or persons against loss, damage, or injury; or
(4) Other types of activities which are similarly less complex than skilled work but more complex than unskilled work.
(d)
Skilled work.
Skilled work requires qualifications in which a person uses judgment to determine the machine and manual operations to be performed in order to obtain the proper form, quality, or quantity of material to be produced. Skilled jobs may require—
(1) Laying out work;
(2) Estimating quality;
(3) Determining suitability and needed quantities of materials;
(4) Making precise measurements;
(5) Reading blueprints or other specifications;
(6) Making necessary computations or mechanical adjustments to control or regulate work; or
(7) Dealing with people, facts, figures or abstract ideas at a high level of complexity.
(e)
Skills that can be used in other work (transferability)
—(1)
What the Board means by transferable skills.
The Board considers the claimant to have skills that can be used in other jobs, when the skilled or semi-skilled work activities the claimant did in past work can be used to meet the requirements of skilled or semi-skilled work activities of other jobs or kinds of work. This depends largely on the similarity of occupationally significant work activities among different jobs.
(2)
How the Board determines skills that can be transferred to other jobs.
Transferability is most probable and meaningful among jobs in which—
(i) The same or a lesser degree of skill is required;
(ii) The same or similar tools and machines are used; and
(iii) The same or similar raw materials, products, processes, or services are involved.
(3)
Degrees of transferability.
There are degrees of transferability of skills ranging from very close similarities to remote and incidental similarities among jobs. A complete similarity of all three factors is not necessary for transferability. However, when skills are so specialized or have been acquired in such an isolated vocational setting (like many jobs in mining, agriculture, or fishing) that they are not readily usable in other industries, jobs, and work settings, they are considered not transferable.
§ 220.134
Medical-vocational guidelines in appendix 2 of this part.
(a) The Dictionary of Occupational Titles includes information about jobs (classified by their exertional and skill requirements) that exist in the national economy. Appendix 2 of this part
provides rules using this data reflecting major functional and vocational patterns.
(b) The Board applies that rules in appendix 2 of this part in cases where a claimant is not doing substantial gainful activity and is prevented by a severe impairment(s) from doing vocationally relevant past work.
(c) The rules in appendix 2 of this part do not cover all possible variations of factors. The Board does not apply these rules if one of the findings of fact about the claimant's vocational factors and residual functional capacity is not the same as the corresponding criterion of a rule. In these instances, the Board gives full consideration to all relevant facts in accordance with the definitions and discussions under vocational considerations. However, if the findings of fact made about all factors are the same as the rule, the Board uses that rule to decide whether that claimant is disabled.
§ 220.135
Exertional and nonexertional limitations.
(a)
General.
The claimant's impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, may cause limitations of function or restrictions which limit the claimant's ability to meet certain demands of jobs. These limitations may be exertional, nonexertional, or a combination of both. Limitations are classified as exertional if they affect the claimant's ability to meet the strength demands of jobs. The classification of a limitation as exertional is related to the United States Department of Labor's classification of jobs by various exertional levels (sedentary, light, medium, heavy, and very heavy) in terms of the strength demands for sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling. Sections 220.132 and 220.134 of this part explain how the Board uses the classification of jobs by exertional levels (strength demands) which is contained in the Dictionary of Occupational Titles published by the Department of Labor, to determine the exertional requirements of work which exists in the national economy. Limitations or restrictions which affect the claimant's ability to meet the demands of jobs other than the strength demands, that is, demands other than sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing or pulling, are considered nonexertional. Sections 220.100(b)(5) and 220.180(h) of this part explain that if the claimant can no longer do the claimant's past relevant work because of a severe medically determinable impairment(s), the Board must determine whether the claimant's impairment(s), when considered along with the claimant's age, education, and work experience, prevents the claimant from doing any other work which exists in the national economy in order to decide whether the claimant is disabled or continues to be disabled. Paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section explain how the Board applies the medical-vocational guidelines in appendix 2 of this part in making this determination, depending on whether the limitations or restrictions imposed by the claimant's impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, are exertional, nonexertional, or a combination of both.
(b)
Exertional limitations.
When the limitations and restrictions imposed by the claimant's impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect only the claimant's ability to meet the strength demands of jobs (sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling), the Board considers that the claimant has only exertional limitations. When the claimant's impairment(s) and related symptoms only impose exertional limitations and the claimant's specific vocational profile is listed in a rule contained in appendix 2 of this part, the Board will directly apply that rule to decide whether the claimant is disabled.
(c)
Nonexertional limitations.
(1) When the limitations and restrictions imposed by the claimant's impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect only the claimant's ability to meet the demands of jobs other than the strength demands, the Board considers that the claimant has only nonexertional limitations or restrictions. Some examples of nonexertional limitations or restrictions include the following:
(i) Difficulty functioning because the claimant is nervous, anxious, or depressed;
(ii) Difficulty maintaining attention or concentration;
(iii) Difficulty understanding or remembering detailed instructions;
(iv) Difficulty in seeing or hearing;
(v) Difficulty tolerating some physical feature(s) of certain work settings,
e.g.,
the claimant cannot tolerate dust or fumes; or
(vi) Difficulty performing the manipulative or postural functions of some work such as reaching, handling, stooping, climbing, crawling, or crouching.
(2) If the claimant's impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, only affect the claimant's ability to perform the nonexertional aspects of work-related activities, the rules in appendix 2 do not direct factual conclusions of disabled or not disabled. The determination as to whether disability exists will be based on the principles in the appropriate sections of the regulations, giving consideration to the rules for specific case situations in appendix 2 of this part.
(d)
Combined exertional and nonexertional limitations.
When the limitations and restrictions imposed by the claimant's impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect the claimant's ability to meet both the strength and demands of jobs other than the strength demands, the Board considers that the claimant has a combination of exertional and nonexertional limitations or restrictions. If the claimant's impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect the claimant's ability to meet both the strength and demands of jobs other than the strength demands, the Board will not directly apply the rules in appendix 2 unless there is a rule that directs a conclusion that the claimant is disabled based upon the claimant's strength limitations; otherwise the rules provide a framework to guide the Board's decision.
[68 FR 60294, Oct. 22, 2003]

# Subpart L—Substantial Gainful Activity
§ 220.140
General.
The work that a claimant has done during any period in which the claimant believes he or she is disabled may show that the claimant is able to do work at the substantial gainful activity level. If the claimant is able to engage in substantial gainful activity, the Board will find that the claimant is not disabled for any regular employment under the Railroad Retirement Act. Even if the work the claimant has done was not substantial gainful activity, it may show that the claimant is able to do more work than he or she actually did. The Board will consider all of the medical and vocational evidence in the claimant's file to decide whether or not the claimant has the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
§ 220.141
Substantial gainful activity, defined.
Substantial gainful activity is work activity that is both substantial and gainful.
(a)
Substantial work activity.
Substantial work activity is work activity that involves doing significant physical or mental activities. The claimant's work may be substantial even if it is done on a part-time basis or if the claimant does less, gets paid less, or has less responsibility than when the claimant worked before.
(b)
Gainful work activity.
Gainful work activity is work activity that the claimant does for pay or profit. Work activity is gainful if it is the kind of work usually done for pay or profit, whether or not a profit is realized.
(c)
Some other activities.
Generally, the Board does not consider activities like taking care of one's self, household tasks, hobbies, therapy, school attendance, club activities, or social programs to be substantial gainful activity.
§ 220.142
General information about work activity.
(a)
The nature of the claimant's work.
If the claimant's duties require use of the claimant's experience, skills, supervision and responsibilities, or contribute substantially to the operation of a business, this tends to show that the claimant has the ability to work at the substantial gainful activity level.
(b)
How well the claimant performs.
The Board considers how well the claimant does his or her work when the
Board determines whether or not the claimant is doing substantial gainful activity. If the claimant does his or her work satisfactorily, this may show that the claimant is working at the substantial gainful activity level. If the claimant is unable, because of his or her impairments, to do ordinary or simple tasks satisfactorily without more supervision or assistance than is usually given other people doing similar work, this may show that the claimant is not working at the substantial gainful activity level. If the claimant is doing work that involves minimal duties that make little or no demands on the claimant and that are of little or no use to the claimant's railroad or non-railroad employer, or to the operation of a business if the claimant is self-employed, this does not show that the claimant is working at the substantial gainful activity level.
(c)
If the claimant's work is done under special conditions.
Even though the work the claimant is doing takes into account his or her impairment, such as work done in a sheltered workshop or as a patient in a hospital, it may still show that the claimant has the necessary skills and ability to work at the substantial gainful activity level.
(d)
If the claimant is self-employed.
Supervisory, managerial, advisory or other significant personal services that the claimant performs as a self-employed person may show that the claimant is able to do substantial gainful activity.
(e)
Time spent in work.
While the time the claimant spends in work is important, the Board will not decide whether or not the claimant is doing substantial gainful activity only on that basis. The Board will still evaluate the work to decide whether it is substantial and gainful regardless of whether the claimant spends more time or less time at the job than workers who are not impaired and who are doing similar work as a regular means of their livelihood.
§ 220.143
Evaluation guides for an employed claimant.
(a)
General.
The Board uses several guides to decide whether the work the claimant has done shows that he or she is able to do substantial gainful activity.
(1)
The claimant's earnings may show the claimant has done substantial gainful activity.
The amount of the claimant's earnings from work the claimant has done may show that he or she has engaged in substantial gainful activity. Generally, if the claimant worked for substantial earnings, this will show that he or she is able to do substantial gainful activity. On the other hand, the fact that the claimant's earnings are not substantial will not necessarily show that the claimant is not able to do substantial gainful activity. The Board will generally consider work that the claimant is forced to stop after a short time because of his or her impairment(s) as an unsuccessful work attempt and the claimant's earnings from that work will not show that the claimant is able to do substantial gainful activity.
(2)
The Board considers only the amount the claimant earns.
The Board does not consider any income not directly related to the claimant's productivity when the Board decides whether the claimant has done substantial gainful activity. If the claimant's earnings are subsidized, the amount of the subsidy is not counted when the Board determines whether or not the claimant's work is substantial gainful activity. Thus, where work is done under special conditions, the Board only considers the part of the claimant's pay which the claimant actually “earns.” For example, where a handicapped person does simple tasks under close and continuous supervision, the Board would not determine that the person worked at the substantial gainful activity level only on the basis of the amount of pay. A railroad or non-railroad employer may set a specific amount as a subsidy after figuring the reasonable value of the employee's services. If the claimant's work is subsidized and the claimant's railroad and non-railroad employer does not set the amount of the subsidy or does not adequately explain how the subsidy was figured, the Board will investigate to see how much the claimant's work is worth.
(3)
If the claimant is working in a sheltered or special environment.
If the
claimant is working in a sheltered workshop, the claimant may or may not be earning the amounts he or she is being paid. The fact that the sheltered workshop or similar facility is operating at a loss or is receiving some charitable contributions or governmental aid does not establish that the claimant is not earning all he or she is being paid. Since persons in military service being treated for a severe impairment usually continue to receive full pay, the Board evaluates work activity in a therapy program or while on limited duty by comparing it with similar work in the civilian work force or on the basis of reasonable worth of the work, rather than on the actual amount of the earnings.
(b)
Earnings guidelines
—(1)
General.
If the claimant is employed, the Board first considers the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and § 220.145, and then the guides in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) of this section.
(2)
Earnings that will ordinarily show that the claimant has engaged in substantial gainful activity.
The Board will consider that the earnings from the employed claimant (including earnings from sheltered work, see paragraph (b)(4) of this section) show that the claimant engaged in substantial gainful activity if:
(i)
Before January 1, 2001
, the earnings averaged more than the amount(s) in Table 1 of this section for the time(s) in which the claimant worked.
(ii)
Beginning January 1, 2001
, the earnings are more than an amount determined for each calendar year to be the larger of:
(A) The amount for the previous year, or
(B) The amount established by the Social Security Administration to constitute substantial gainful activity for such year.
Table 1—Amounts Indicating Substantial Gainful Activity Performed
For months
Monthly earnings averaged more than
In calendar years before 1976
$200
In calendar year 1976
230
In calendar year 1977
240
In calendar year 1978
260
In calendar year 1979
280
In calendar years 1980-1989
300
January 1990-June 1999
500
July 1999-December 2000
700
(3)
Earnings that will ordinarily show that the claimant has not engaged in substantial gainful activity.
Beginning January 1, 2001, if the claimant's earnings are equal to or less than the amount(s) determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section for the year(s) in which the claimant works, the Board will generally consider that the earnings from the claimant's work as an employee will show the claimant has not engaged in substantial gainful activity. Before January 1, 2001, if the claimant's earnings were less than the amount(s) in Table 2 of this section for the year(s) in which the claimant worked, the Board will generally consider that the earnings from the claimant's work as an employee will show that the claimant has not engaged in substantial gainful activity.
Table 2—Amounts Indicating Substantial Gainful Activity Not Performed
For months
Monthly earnings averaged less than
In calendar years before 1976
$130
In calendar year 1976
150
In calendar year 1977
160
In calendar year 1978
170
In calendar year 1979
180
In calendar years 1980-1989
190
In calendar years 1990-2000
300
(4)
If the claimant worked in a sheltered workshop.
Before January 1, 2001 if the claimant worked in a sheltered workshop or a comparable facility especially set up for severely impaired persons, the Board will ordinarily consider that the claimant's earnings from this work show that the claimant has engaged in substantial gainful activity if the claimant's earnings average more than the amounts in Table 1 of this section. Average monthly earnings from a sheltered workshop or a comparable facility that are equal to or less than those indicated in Table 1 of this section will ordinarily show that the claimant has not engaged in substantial gainful activity without the need to consider the other information, as described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, regardless of whether they are more or less than those indicated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. When the claimant's earnings from a sheltered workshop or comparable facility are equal to or less than those amounts indicated in Table 1 of this section, the Board will consider the provisions of paragraph (b)(6) of this section only if there is evidence that the claimant may have done substantial gainful activity. For work performed in a sheltered workshop or comparable facility beginning January 1, 2001, the rules of paragraph (b)(2), (3), and (6) apply the same as they do to any other work done by an employee.
(5)
If there is evidence showing that the claimant may have done substantial gainful activity.
If there is evidence showing that the claimant may have done substantial gainful activity, the Board will apply the criteria in paragraph (b)(6) of this section regarding comparability and value of services.
(6)
Earnings that are not high enough to ordinarily show that the claimant engaged in substantial gainful activity.
(i) Before January 1, 2001, if the claimant's average monthly earnings were between the amounts shown in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, the Board will generally consider other information in addition to the claimant's earnings (see paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section). This rule generally applies to employees who did not work in a sheltered workshop or a comparable facility, although the Board may apply it to some people who work in sheltered workshops or comparable facilities (see paragraph (b)(4) of this section).
(ii) Beginning January 1, 2001, if the claimant's average monthly earnings are equal to or less than the amounts determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Board will generally not consider other information in addition to the claimant's earnings unless there is evidence indicating that the claimant may be engaging in substantial gainful activity or that the claimant is in a position to defer or suppress his or her earnings.
(iii) Examples of other information the Board may consider include, whether—
(A) The claimant's work is comparable to that of unimpaired people in the claimant's community who are doing the same or similar occupations as their means of livelihood, taking into account the time, energy, skill, and responsibility involved in the work, and
(B) The claimant's work, although significantly less than that done by unimpaired people, is clearly worth the amounts shown in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, according to pay scales in the claimant's community.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 62976, Nov. 18, 1999; 72 FR 21101, Apr. 30, 2007]
§ 220.144
Evaluation guides for a self-employed claimant.
(a)
If the claimant is a self-employed claimant.
The Board will consider the claimant's activities and their value to the claimant's business to decide whether the claimant has engaged in substantial gainful activity if the claimant is self-employed. The Board will not consider the claimant's income alone since the amount of income the claimant actually receives may depend upon a number of different factors like capital investment, profit sharing agreements, etc. The Board will generally consider work that the claimant is forced to stop after a short time because of his or her impairment(s) as an unsuccessful work attempt and the claimant's income from that work will not show that the claimant is able to do substantial gainful activity. The
Board will evaluate the claimant's work activity on the value to the business of the claimant's services regardless of whether the claimant receives an immediate income for his or her services. The Board considers that the claimant has engaged in substantial gainful activity if—
(1) The claimant's work activity, in terms of factors such as hours, skills, energy output, efficency, duties, and responsibilities, is comparable to that of unimpaired persons in the claimant's community who are in the same or similar businesses as their means of livelihood;
(2) The claimant's work activity, although not comparable to that of unimpaired persons, is clearly worth the amount shown in § 220.143(b)(2) when considered in terms of its value to the business, or when compared to the salary that an owner would pay to an employed person to do the work the claimant is doing; or
(3) The claimant renders services that are significant to the operation of the business and receives a substantial income from the business.
(b)
What the Board means by significant services
—(1)
Claimants who are not farm landlords.
If the claimant is not a farm landlord and the claimant operates a business entirely by himself or herself, any services that the claimant renders are significant to the business. If the claimant's business involves the services of more than one person, the Board will consider the claimant to be rendering significant services if he or she contributes more than half the total time required for the management of the business or he or she renders management services for more than 45 hours a month regardless of the total management time required by the business.
(2)
Claimants who are farm landlords
—(i)
General.
If the claimant is a farm landlord, that is, the claimant rents farm land to another, the Board will consider the claimant to be rendering significant services if the claimant materially participates in the production or the management of the production of the things raised on the rented farm. If the claimant was given social security earnings credits because he or she materially participated in the activities of the farm and he or she continues these same activities, the Board will consider the claimant to be rendering significant services.
(ii)
Material participation.
(A) The claimant will have established that he or she is materially participating if he or she—
(
1
) Furnishes a large portion of the machinery, tools, and livestock used in the production of the things raised on the rented farm; or
(
2
) Furnishes or advances monies or assumes financial responsibility for a substantial part of the expense involved in the production of the things raised on the rented farm.
(B) The claimant will have presented strong evidence that he or she is materially participating if he or she periodically—
(
1
) Advise or consults with the other person who under the rental agreement produces the things raised on the rented farm; and
(
2
) Inspects the production activities on the land.
(iii)
Production.
The term “production” refers to the physical work performed and the expenses incurred in producing the things raised on the farm. It includes activities like the actual work of planting, cultivating, and harvesting of crops, and the furnishing of machinery, implements, seed, and livestock.
(iv)
Management of the production.
The term “management of the production” refers to services performed in making managerial decisions about the production of the crop, such as when to plant, cultivate, dust, spray or harvest. It includes advising and consulting, making inspections, and making decisions on matters, such as rotation of crops, the type of crops to be grown, the type of livestock to be raised, and the type of machinery and implements to be furnished.
(c)
What the Board means by substantial income.
After the claimant's normal business expenses are deducted from the claimant's gross income to determine net income, the Board will deduct the reasonable value of any unpaid help, any soil bank payments that were included as farm income, and impairment-related work expenses described in § 220.145 that have not been deducted
in determining the claimant's net earnings from self-employment. The Board will consider the resulting amount of income from the business to be substantial if—
(1) It averages more than the amounts described in § 220.143(b)(2); or
(2) It averages less than the amounts described in § 220.143(b)(2) but the livelihood which the claimant gets from the business is either comparable to what it was before the claimant became severely impaired or is comparable to that of unimpaired self-employed persons in the claimant's community who are in the same or similar businesses as their means of livelihood.
§ 220.145
Impairment-related work expenses.
(a)
General.
When the Board figures the claimant's earnings in deciding if the claimant has done substantial gainful activity, the Board will subtract the reasonable costs to the claimant of certain items and services which, because of his or her impairment(s), the claimant needs and uses to enable him or her to work. The costs are deductible even though the claimant also needs or uses the items and services to carry out daily living functions unrelated to his or her work. Paragraph (b) of this section explains the conditions for deducting work expenses. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the expenses the Board will deduct. Paragraph (d) of this section explains when expenses may be deducted. Paragraph (e) of this section describes how expenses may be allocated. Paragraph (f) of this section explains the limitations on deducting expenses. Paragraph (g) of this section explains the Board's verification procedures.
(b)
Conditions for deducting impairment-related work expenses.
The Board will deduct impairment-related work expenses if—
(1) The claimant is otherwise disabled as defined in § 220.26;
(2) The severity of the claimant's impairment(s) requires the claimant to purchase (or rent) certain items and services in order to work;
(3) The claimant pays the cost of the item or service. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that payment has been or will be made by another source. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that the claimant has been, could be, or will be reimbursed for such cost by any other source (such as through a private insurance plan, Medicare or Medicaid, or other plan or agency). For example, if the claimant purchases crutches for $80 but the claimant was, could be, or will be reimbursed $64 by some agency, plan, or program, the Board will deduct only $16;
(4) The claimant pays for the item or service in a month he or she is working (in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section); and
(5) The claimant's payment is in cash (including checks or other forms of money). Payment in kind is not deductible.
(c)
What expenses may be deducted
—(1)
Payments for attendant care services.
(i) If because of the claimant's impairment(s) the claimant needs assistance in traveling to and from work, or while at work the claimant needs assistance with personal functions (e.g., eating, toileting) or with work-related functions (e.g., reading, communicating), the payments the claimant makes for those services may be deducted.
(ii) If because of the claimant's impairment(s) the claimant needs assistance with personal functions (e.g., dressing, administering medications) at home in preparation for going to and assistance in returning from work, the payments the claimant makes for those services may be deducted.
(iii)(A) The Board will deduct payments the claimant makes to a family member for attendant care services only if such person, in order to perform the services, suffers an economic loss by terminating his or her employment or by reducing the number of hours he or she worked.
(B) The Board considers a family member to be anyone who is related to the claimant by blood, marriage or adoption, whether or not that person lives with the claimant.
(iv) If only part of the claimant's payment to a person is for services that come under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Board will only deduct that part of the payment which is attributable to those services. For example, an attendant
gets the claimant ready for work and helps the claimant in returning from work, which takes about 2 hours a day. The rest of the attendant's 8-hour day is spent cleaning the claimant's house and doing the claimant's laundry, etc. The Board would only deduct one-fourth of the attendant's daily wages as an impairment-related work expense.
(2)
Payment for medical devices.
If the claimant's impairment(s) requires that the claimant utilize medical devices in order to work, the payments the claimant makes for those devices may be deducted. As used in this subparagraph, medical devices include durable medical equipment which can withstand repeated use, is customarily used for medical purposes, and is generally not useful to a person in the absence of an illness or injury. Examples of durable medical equipment are wheelchairs, hemodialysis equipment, canes, crutches, inhalators and pacemakers.
(3)
Payments for prosthetic devices.
If the claimant's impairment(s) requires that the claimant utilize a prosthetic device in order to work, the payments the claimant makes for that device can be deducted. A prosthetic device is that which replaces an internal body organ or external body part. Examples of prosthetic devices are artificial replacements of arms, legs and other parts of the body.
(4)
Payments for equipment
—(i)
Work-related equipment.
If the claimant's impairment(s) requires that the claimant utilize special equipment in order to do his or her job, the payments the claimant makes for that equipment may be deducted. Examples of work-related equipment are one-hand typewriters, vision aids, sensory aids for the blind, telecommunication devices for the deaf and tools specifically designed to accommodate a person's impairment(s).
(ii)
Residential modifications.
If the claimant's impairment(s) requires that the claimant make modifications to his or her residence, the location of the claimant's place of work will determine if the cost of these modifications will be deducted. If the claimant is employed away from home, only the cost of changes made outside of the claimant's home to permit the claimant to get to his or her means of transportation (e.g., the installation of an exterior ramp for a wheelchair confined person or special exterior railings or pathways for someone who requires crutches) will be deducted. Costs relating to modifications of the inside of the claimant's home will not be deducted. If the claimant works at home, the costs of modifying the inside of the claimant's home in order to create a working space to accommodate the claimant's impairment(s) will be deducted to the extent that the changes pertain specifically to the space in which the claimant works. Examples of such changes are the enlargement of a doorway leading into the workspace or modification of the workspace to accommodate problems in dexterity. However, if the claimant is self-employed at home, any cost deducted as a business expense cannot be deducted as an impairment-related work expense.
(iii)
Non-medical appliances and equipment.
Expenses for appliances and equipment which the claimant does not ordinarily use for medical purposes are generally not deductible. Examples of these items are portable room heaters, air conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, and electric air cleaners. However, expenses for such items may be deductible when unusual circumstances clearly establish an impairment-related and medically verified need for such an item because it is for the control of the claimant's disabling impairment(s), thus enabling the claimant to work. To be considered essential, the item must be of such a nature that if it were not available to the claimant there would be an immediate adverse impact on the claimant's ability to function in his or her work activity. In this situation, the expense is deductible whether the item is used at home or in the working place. An example would be the need for an electric air cleaner by a person with severe respiratory disease who cannot function in a non-purified air environment. An item such as an exercycle is not deductible if used for general physical fitness. If an exercycle is prescribed and used as necessary treatment to enable the claimant to work, the Board will deduct payments the claimant makes toward its cost.
(5)
Payments for drugs and medical services.
(i) If the claimant must use drugs or medical services (including diagnostic procedures) to control his or her impairment(s), the payments the claimant makes for them may be deducted. The drugs or services must be prescribed (or utilized) to reduce or eliminate symptoms of the claimant's impairment(s) or to slow down its progression. The diagnostic procedures must be performed to ascertain how the impairment(s) is progressing or to determine what type of treatment should be provided for the impairment(s).
(ii) Examples of deductible drugs and medical services are anti-convulsant drugs to control epilepsy or anticonvulsant blood level monitoring; antidepressant medication for mental impairments; medication used to allay the side effects of certain treatments; radiation treatment or chemotherapy for cancer patients; corrective surgery for spinal impairments; electroencephalograms and brain scans related to a disabling epileptic impairment; tests to determine the efficacy of medication on a diabetic condition; and immunosuppressive medications that kidney transplant patients regularly take to protect against graft rejection.
(iii) The Board will only deduct the costs of drugs or services that are directly related to the claimant's impairment(s). Examples of non-deductible items are routine annual physical examinations, optician services (unrelated to a disabling visual impairment) and dental examinations.
(6)
Payments for similar items and services
—(i)
General.
If the claimant is required to utilize items and services not specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section, but which are directly related to his or her impairment(s) and which the claimant needs to work, their costs are deductible. Examples of such items and services are medical supplies and services not discussed above, the purchase and maintenance of a dog guide which the claimant needs to work, and transportation.
(ii)
Medical supplies and services not described above.
The Board will deduct payments the claimant makes for expendable medical supplies, such as incontinence pads, catheters, bandages, elastic stockings, face masks, irrigating kits, and disposable sheets and bags. The Board will also deduct payments the claimant makes for physical therapy which the claimant requires because of his or her impairment(s) and which the claimant needs in order to work.
(iii)
Payments for transportation costs.
The Board will deduct transportation costs in these situations:
(A) The claimant's impairment(s) requires that in order to get to work the claimant needs a vehicle that has structural or operational modifications. The modifications must be critical to the claimant's operation or use of the vehicle and directly related to the claimant's impairment(s). The Board will deduct the cost of the modifications, but not the cost of the vehicle. The Board will also deduct a mileage allowance for the trip to and from work. The allowance will be based on data compiled by the Federal Highway Administration relating to vehicle operating costs.
(B) The claimant's impairment(s) requires the claimant to use driver assistance, taxicabs or other hired vehicles in order to work. The Board will deduct amounts paid to the driver and, if the claimant's own vehicle is used, the Board will also deduct a mileage allowance, as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, for the trip to and from work.
(C) The claimant's impairment(s) prevents the claimant from taking available public transportation to and from work and the claimant must drive his or her (unmodified) vehicle to work. If the Board can verify through the claimant's physician or other sources that the need to drive is caused by the claimant's impairment(s) (and not due to the unavailability of public transportation), the Board will deduct a mileage allowance, as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, for the trip to and from work.
(7)
Payments for installing, maintaining, and repairing deductible items.
If the device, equipment, appliance, etc., that
the claimant utilizes qualifies as a deductible item as described in paragraphs (c)(2), (3), (4) and (6) of this section, the costs directly related to installing, maintaining and repairing these items are also deductible. (The costs which are associated with modifications to a vehicle are deductible. Except for a mileage allowance, as provided for in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, the costs which are associated with the vehicle itself are not deductible.)
(d)
When expenses may be deducted
—(1)
Effective date.
To be deductible, an expense must be incurred after November 30, 1980. An expense may be considered incurred after that date if it is paid thereafter even though pursuant to a contract or other arrangement entered into before December 1, 1980.
(2)
Payments for services.
A payment the claimant makes for services may be deducted if the services are received while the claimant is working and the payment is made in a month the claimant is working. The Board considers the claimant to be working even though he or she must leave work temporarily to receive the services.
(3)
Payments for items.
A payment the claimant makes toward the cost of a deductible item (regardless of when it is acquired) may be deducted if payment is made in a month claimant is working. See paragraph (e)(4) of this section when purchases are made in anticipation of work.
(e)
How expenses are allocated
—(1)
Recurring expenses.
The claimant may pay for services on a regular periodic basis, or the claimant may purchase an item on credit and pay for it in regular periodic installments or the claimant may rent an item. If so, each payment the claimant makes for the services and each payment the claimant makes toward the purchase or rental (including interest) is deductible in the month it is made.

# Example:
B starts work in October 1981 at which time she purchases a medical device at a cost of $4,800 plus interest charges of $720. Her monthly payments begin in October. She earns and receives $400 a month. The term of the installment contract is 48 months. No downpayment is made. The monthly allowable deduction for the item would be $115 ($5,520 divided by 48) for each month of work during the 48 months.
(2)
Non-recurring expenses.
Part or all of the claimant's expenses may not be recurring. For example, the claimant may make a one-time payment in full for an item or service or make a downpayment. If the claimant is working when he or she makes the payment, the Board will either deduct the entire amount in the month the claimant pays it or allocate the amount over a 12-consecutive-month period beginning with the month of payment, whichever the claimant selects.

# Example:
A begins working in October 1981 and earns $525 a month. In the same month, he purchases and pays for a deductible item at a cost of $250. In this situation the Board could allow a $250 deduction for October 1981, reducing A's earnings below the substantial gainful activity level for that month.
If A's earnings had been $15 above the substantial gainful activity earnings amount, A probably would select the option of projecting the $250 payment over the 12-month period, October 1981-September 1982, giving A an allowable deduction of $20.83 a month for each month of work during that period. This deduction would reduce A's earnings below the substantial gainful activity level for 12 months.
(3)
Allocating downpayments.
If the claimant makes a downpayment, the Board will, if the claimant chooses, make a separate calculation for the downpayment in order to provide for uniform monthly deductions. In these situations the Board will determine the total payment that the claimant will make over a 12-consecutive-month period beginning with the month of the downpayment and allocate that amount over the 12 months. Beginning with the 13th month, the regular monthly payment will be deductible. This allocation process will be for a shorter period if the claimant's regular monthly payments will extend over a period of less than 12 months.

# Example 1.
C starts working in October 1981, at which time he purchases special equipment at a cost of $4,800, paying $1,200 down. The balance of $3,600, plus interest of $540, is to be repaid in 36 installments of $115 a month beginning November 1981. C earns $500 a month. He chooses to have the downpayment allocated. In this situation the Board would allow a deduction of $205.42 a month for each month of work during the period October 1981 through September 1982. After September 1982, the deduction amount would be the regular monthly payment of
$115 for each month of work during the remaining installment period.
Explanation:
Downpayment in October 1981
$1,200
Monthly payments:
November 1981 through September 1982
1,265
12 / $2,465 = 205.42

# Example 2.
D, while working, buys a deductible item in July 1981, paying $1,450 down. However, his first monthly payment of $125 is not due until September 1981. D chooses to have the downpayment allocated. In this situation, the Board would allow a deduction of $225 a month for each month of work during the period July 1981 through June 1982. After June 1982, the deduction amount would be the regular monthly payment of $125 for each month of work.
Explanation:
Downpayment in July 1981
$1,450
Monthly payments:
September 1981 through June 1982
1,250
12 / $2,700 = $225
(4)
Payments made in anticipation of work.
A payment made toward the cost of a deductible item that the claimant made in any of the 11 months preceding the month he or she started working will be taken into account in determining the claimant's impairment-related work expenses. When an item is paid for in full during the 11 months preceding the month the claiment started working, the payment will be allocated over the 12-consecutive-month period beginning with the month of the payment. However, the only portion of the payment which may be deductible is the portion allocated to the month work begins and the following months. For example, if an item is purchased 3 months before the month work began and is paid for with a one-time payment of $600, the deductible amount would be $450 ($600 divided by 12, multiplied by 9). Installment payments (including a downpayment) that the claimant made for a particular item during the 11 months preceding the month he or she started working will be totalled and considered to have been made in the month of the claimant's first payment for that item within this 11-month period. The sum of these payments will be allocated over the 12-consecutive-month period beginning with the month of the claimant's first payment (but never earlier than 11 months before the month work began). However, the only portion of the total which may be deductible is the portion allocated to the month work begins and the following months. For example, if an item is purchased 3 months before the month work began and is paid for in 3 monthly installments of $200 each, the total payment of $600 will be considered to have been made in the month of the first payment, that is, 3 months before the month work began. The deductible amount would be $450 ($600 divided by 12, multiplied by 9). The amount, as determined by these formulas, will then be considered to have been paid in the first month of work. The Board will deduct either this entire amount in the first month of work or allocate it over a 12-consecutive-month period, beginning with the first month of work, whichever the claimant selects. In the above examples, the claimant would have the choice of having the entire $450 deducted in the first month of work or having $37.50 a month ($450 divided by 12) deducted for each month that he or she works over a 12-consecutive-month period, beginning with the first month of work. To be deductible, the payments must be for durable items such as medical devices, prostheses, work-related equipment, residential modifications, non-medical appliances and vehicle modifications. Payments for services and expendable items such as drugs, oxygen, diagnostic procedures, medical supplies and vehicle operating costs are not deductible for the purpose of this paragraph.
(f)
Limits on deductions.
(1) The Board will deduct the actual amounts the claimant pays towards his or her impairment-related work expenses unless the amounts are unreasonable. With respect to durable medical equipment, prosthetic devices, medical services, and similar medically-related items and services, the Board will apply the prevailing charges under Medicare (Part B of the title XVIII, Health Insurance for the Aged and Disabled) to the extent that this information is
readily available. Where the Medicare guides are used, the Board will consider the amount that the claimant pays to be reasonable if it is no more than the prevailing charge for the same item or service under the Medicare guidelines. If the amount the claimant actually pays is more than the prevailing charge for the same item under the Medicare guidelines, the Board will deduct from the claimant's earnings the amount the claimant paid to the extent he or she establishes that the amount is consistent with the standard or normal charge for the same or similar item or service in his or her community. For items and services that are not listed in the Medicare guidelines, and for items and services that are listed in the Medicare guidelines but for which such guides cannot be used because the information is not readily available, the Board will consider the amount the claimant pays to be reasonable if it does not exceed the standard or normal charge for the same or similar item or service in the claimant's community.
(2) Impairment-related work expenses are not deducted in computing the claimant's earnings for purposes of determining whether the claimant's work was “services” as described in § 220.170.
(3) The decision as to whether the claimant performed substantial gainful activity in a case involving impairment-related work expenses for items or services necessary for the claimant to work generally will be based upon the claimant's “earnings” and not on the value of “services” the claimant rendered. (See §§ 220.143 (b)(6)(i) and (ii), and 220.144(a)). This is not necessarily so, however, if the claimant is in a position to control or manipulate his or her earnings.
(4) No deduction will be allowed to the extent that any other source has paid or will pay for an item or service. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that the claimant has been, could be, or will be reimbursed for payments he or she made. (See paragraph (b)(3) of this section.)
(5) The provisions described in the foregoing paragraphs in this section are effective with respect to expenses incurred on or after December 1, 1980, although expenses incurred after November 1980, as a result of contractual or other arrangements entered into before December 1980, are deductible. For months before December 1980, the Board will deduct impairment-related work expenses from the claimant's earnings only to the extent they exceeded the normal work-related expenses the claimant would have had if the claimant did not have his or her impairment(s). The Board will not deduct expenses, however, for those things with the claimant needed even when he or she was not working.
(g)
Verification.
The Board will verify the claimant's need for items or services for which deductions are claimed, and the amount of the charges for those items or services. The claimant will also be asked to provide proof that he or she paid for the items or services.

# Subpart M—Disability Annuity Earnings Restrictions
§ 220.160
How work for a railroad employer affects a disability annuity.
A disability annuity is not payable and the annuity must be returned for any month in which the disabled annuitant works for an employer as defined in part 202 of this chapter.
§ 220.161
How work affects an employee disability annuity.
In addition to the condition in § 220.160, the employee's disability annuity is not payable and the employee must return the annuity payment for any month in which the employee earns more than $400 (after deduction of impairment-related work expenses) in employment or self-employment of any kind. Any annuity amounts withheld because the annuitant earned over $400 in a month may be paid after the end of the year, as shown in § 220.164. The $400 monthly limit no longer applies when the employee attains retirement age and the disability annuity is converted to a full age annuity. See § 220.145 for the definition of impairment-related work expenses.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 39010, July 1, 2003]
§ 220.162
Earnings report.
(a)
General.
Any annuitant receiving an annuity based on disability must report to the Board any work and earnings as described in §§ 220.160 and 220.161. The report may be a written or oral statement by the annuitant, or a person acting for the annuitant, made or sent to a representative of the Board. The report should include the name and address of the railroad or non-railroad employer, a description of the work and the amount of gross wages (before deductions) or the net income from self-employment (earnings after deducting business expenses).
(b)
Employee reports.
In addition to the requirement described in (a), a report of earnings over $400 a month must be made before the employee accepts a disability annuity (the annuity payment is issued and not returned) for the second month after the first month in which earnings are over $400. Along with the report, the employee must return the annuity payment for any month in which he or she earns over $400.
§ 220.163
Employee penalty deductions.
If the employee earns over $400 in a month and does not report it within the time limit shown in § 220.162(b), a penalty is imposed. The penalty deduction for the first failure to report equals the annuity amount for the first month in which the employee earned over $400. The deduction for a second or later failure to report equals the annuity amount for each month in which the employee earned over $400 and failed to report it on time.
§ 220.164
Employee end-of-year adjustment.
(a)
General.
After the end of a year, the employee whose annuity was withheld for earnings over $400 in a month receives a form on which to report his or her earnings for the year.
(b)
Earnings are less than $5000.
If the employee's yearly earnings are less than $5000, all annuity payments and penalties withheld during the year because of earnings over $4800 are paid.
(c)
Earnings are $5000 or more.
(1) If the employee's yearly earnings are $5000 or more, the annuity payments are adjusted so that the employee does not have more than one regular deduction for every $400 of earnings over $4800. The last $200 or more of earnings over $4800 is treated as if it were $400. If the annuity rate changes during the year, any annuities due at the end of the year are paid first for months in which the annuity rate is higher. Penalty deductions may also apply as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) If the employee's yearly earnings are $5000 or more and the employee failed to report monthly earnings over $400 within the time limit described in § 220.162(b), penalty deductions will also apply. If it is the employee's first failure to report, the penalty deduction is equal to one month's annuity. If it is the employee's second or later failure to report, the penalty deduction equals the annuity amount for each month in which the employee earned over $400 and failed to report it on time.
(d) This section is illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1:
Employee is awarded a disability annuity based upon his inability to engage in his regular railroad occupation effective January 1, 1989. During that year, he works April through October, for which he receives $785 per month. He does not report these earnings to the Board until January of the following year. The employee is considered to have earned $5600 (7 × $785 = $5495, which is rounded up to the nearest $400). He forfeits three months of annuities:
EC14NO91.107

# Example 2:
The same employee in the following year also works April through October, for which he receives $785 per month. This time he reports the earnings on October 31. This year he forfeits 6 months of annuity payments, 2 due to earnings, computed as above, and 4 more due to penalty deductions for failure to report earnings over $400 for the months April through July. There are no penalty deductions with respect to the months August, September, and October, since the employee reported these earnings prior to accepting an annuity for the second month after the month of earnings in excess of $400.

# Subpart N—Trial Work Period and Reentitlement Period for Annuitants Disabled for Any Regular Employment
§ 220.170
The trial work period.
(a)
Definition of the trial work period.
The trial work period is a period during which the annuitant may test his or her ability to work and still be considered disabled. The trial work period begins and ends as described in paragraph (e) of this section. During this period, the annuitant may perform “services” (see paragraph (b) of this section) in as many as 9 months, but these months do not have to be consecutive. The Board will not consider those services as showing that the annuitant's disability has ended until the annuitant has performed services in at least 9 months. However, after the trial work period has ended, the Board will consider the work the annuitant did during the trial work period in determining whether the annuitant's disability has ended at any time after the trial work period.
(b)
What the Board means by services.
When used in this section, services means any activity (whether legal or illegal), even though it is not substantial gainful activity, which is done in employment or self-employment for pay or profit, or is the kind normally done for pay or profit. We generally do not consider work done without remuneration to be services if it is done merely as therapy or training, or if it is work usually done in a daily routine around the house, or in self-care.
(1)
If the claimant is an employee.
The Board will consider the claimant's work as an employee to be services if:
(i) Before January 1, 2002, the claimant's earnings in a month were more than the amount(s) indicated in Table 1 of this section for the year(s) in which the claimant worked.
(ii)
Beginning January 1, 2002
, the claimant's earnings in a month are more than an amount determined for each calendar year to be the larger of:
(A) Such amount for the previous year, or
(B) The amount established by the Social Security Administration for such year as constituting the amount of monthly earnings used to determine whether a person has performed services for counting trial work period months.
(2)
If the claimant is self-employed.
The Board will consider the claimant's activities as a self-employed person to be services if:
(i)
Before January 1, 2002
, the claimant's net earnings in a month were more than the amount(s) indicated in Table 2 of this section for the year(s) in which the claimant worked, or the hours the claimant worked in the business in a month are more than the number of hours per month indicated in Table 2 for the years in which the claimant worked.
(ii)
Beginning January 1, 2002
, the claimant worked more than 80 hours a month in the business, or the claimant's net earnings in a month are more than an amount determined for each calendar year to be the larger of:
(A) Such amount for the previous year, or
(B) The amount established by the Social Security Administration for such year as constituting the amount of monthly earnings used to determine whether a person has performed services for counting trial work period months.
Table 1—For Non Self-Employed
For months
You earn more than
In calendar years before 1979
$50
In calendar years 1979-1989
75
In calendar years 1990-2000
200
In calendar year 2001
530
Table 2—For the Self-Employed
For months
Your net earnings are more than
Or you work in the business more than
(hours)
In calendar years before 1979
$50
15
In calendar years 1979-1989
75
15
In calendar years 1990-2000
200
40
In calendar year 2001
530
80
(c)
Limitations on the number of trial work periods.
The annuitant may have only one trial work period during each period in which he or she is disabled for any regular employment as defined in § 220.26.
(d)
Who is and is not entitled to a trial work period.
(1) Generally, the annuitant is entitled to a trial work period
if he or she is entitled to an annuity based on disability.
(2) An annuitant is not entitled to a trial work period if he or she is in a second period of disability for which he or she did not have to complete a waiting period before qualifying for a disability annuity.
(e)
Payment of the disability annuity during the trial work period.
(1) The disability annuity of an employee, child, or widow(er) who is disabled for any regular employment will not be paid for any month in the trial work period in which the annuitant works for an employer covered by the Railroad Retirement Act (see § 220.160).
(2) The disability annuity of an employee who is disabled for any regular employment will not be paid for any month in this period in which the employee annuitant earns more than $400 in employment or self-employment (see §§ 220.161 and 220.164).
(3) If the disability annuity for an employee, child, or widow(er) who is disabled for any regular employment is stopped because of work during the trial work period, and the disability annuitant discontinues that work before the end of the trial work period, the disability annuity may be started again without a new application and a new determination of disability.
(f)
When the trial work period begins and ends.
(1) The trial work period begins with whichever of the following calendar months is the later—
(i) The annuity beginning date;
(ii) The month after the end of the appropriate waiting period; or
(iii) The month the application for disability is filed.
(2) The trial work period ends with the close of whichever of the following calendar months is the earlier—
(i) The 9th month (whether or not the months have been consecutive) in which the annuitant performed services; or
(ii) The month in which new evidence, other than evidence relating to any work the annuitant did during the trial work period, shows that the annuitant is not disabled, even though he or she has not worked a full 9 months. The Board may find that the annuitant's disability has ended at any time during the trial work period if the medical or other evidence shows that the annuitant is no longer disabled.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 72 FR 21102, Apr. 30, 2007]
§ 220.171
The reentitlement period.
(a)
General.
(1) The reentitlement period is an additional period after the 9 months of trial work during which the annuitant may continue to test his or her ability to work if he or she has a disabling impairment(s).
(2) The disability annuity of an employee, child, or widow(er) who is disabled for any regular employment will not be paid for—
(i) Any month, after the 3rd month, in this period in which the annuitant does substantial gainful activity; or
(ii) Any month in this period in which the annuitant works for an employer covered by the Railroad Retirement Act (see § 220.160).
(3) The disability annuity of an employee who is disabled for any regular employment will not be paid for any month in this period in which the employee annuitant earns more than $400 in employment or self-employment (see §§ 220.161 and 220.164).
(4) If the disability annuity of an employee, child or widow(er) who is disabled for any regular employment is stopped because of work during the trial work period or reentitlement period, and the disability annuitant discontinues that work before the end of either period, the disability annuity may be started again without a new application or a new determination of disability.
(b)
When the reentitlement period begins and ends.
The reentitlement period begins with the first month following completion of nine months of trial work but cannot begin earlier than December 1, 1980. It ends with whichever is earlier—
(1) The month before the first month in which the annuitant's impairment(s) no longer exists or is not medically disabling; or
(2) The last day of the 36th month following the end of the annuitant's trial work period.
(c)
When the annuitant is not entitled to a reentitlement period.
The annuitant is not entitled to a reentitlement period if—
(1) He or she is not entitled to a trial work period; or
(2) His or her disability ended before the annuitant completed nine months of trial work in that period in which he or she was disabled.

# Subpart O—Continuing or Stopping Disability Due to Substantial Gainful Activity or Medical Improvement
§ 220.175
Responsibility to notify the Board of events which affect disability.
If the annuitant is entitled to a disability annuity because he or she is disabled for any regular employment, the annuitant should promptly tell the Board if—
(a) His or her impairment(s) improves;
(b) He or she returns to work;
(c) He or she increases the amount of work; or
(d) His or her earnings increase.
§ 220.176
When disability continues or ends.
There is a statutory requirement that, if an annuitant is entitled to a disability annuity, the annuitant's continued entitlement to such an annuity must be reviewed periodically until the employee or child annuitant reaches full retirement age and the widow(er) annuitant reaches age 60. When the annuitant is entitled to a disability annuity as a disabled employee, disabled widow(er) or as a person disabled since childhood, there are a number of factors to be considered in deciding whether his or her disability continues. The Board must first consider whether the annuitant has worked and, by doing so, demonstrated the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity. If so, the disability will end. If the annuitant has not demonstrated the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity, then the Board must determine if there has been any medical improvement in the annuitant's impairment(s) and, if so, whether this medical improvement is related to the annuitant's ability to work. If an impairment(s) has not medically improved, the Board must consider whether one or more of the exceptions to medical improvement applies. If medical improvement related to ability to work has not occurred and no exception applies, the disability will continue. Even the medical improvement related to ability to work has occurred or an exception applies (see § 220.179 for exceptions), in most cases the Board must also show that the annuitant is currently able to engage in substantial gainful activity before it can find that the annuitant is no longer disabled.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 39010, July 1, 2003]
§ 220.177
Terms and definitions.
There are several terms and definitions which are important to know in order to understand how the Board reviews whether a disability for any regular employment continues:
(a)
Medical improvement.
Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of an impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that the annuitant was disabled or continued to be disabled. A determination that there has been a decrease in medical severity must be based on a comparison of prior and current medical evidence showing changes (improvement) in the symptoms, signs or laboratory findings associated with the impairment(s).

# Example 1:
The claimant was awarded a disability annuity due to a herniated disc. At the time of the Board's prior decision granting the claimant an annuity he had had a laminectomy.
Postoperatively, a myelogram still shows evidence of a persistant deficit in his lumbar spine. He had pain in his back, and pain and a burning sensation in his right foot and leg. There were no muscle weakness or neurological changes and a modest decrease in motion in his back and leg. When the Board reviewed the annuitant's claim to determine whether his disability should be continued, his treating physician reported that he had seen the annuitant regularly every 2 to 3 months for the past 2 years. No further myelograms had been done, complaints of pain in the back and right leg continued especially on sitting or standing for more than a short period of time. The annuitant's doctor further reported a moderately decreased range of motion in the annuitant's back and right leg, but again no muscle atrophy or neurological changes were reported. Medical improvement has not occurred because there
has been no decrease in the severity of the annuitant's back impairment as shown by changes in symptoms, signs or laboratory findings.

# Example 2:
The claimant was awarded a disability annuity due to rheumatoid arthritis. At the time, laboratory findings were positive for this impairment. The claimant's doctor reported persistent swelling and tenderness of the claimant's fingers and wrists and that he complained of joint pain. Current medical evidence shows that while laboratory tests are still positive for rheumatoid arthritis, the annuitant's impairment has responded favorably to therapy so that for the last year his fingers and wrists have not been significantly swollen or painful. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of the annuitant's impairment as documented by the current symptoms and signs reported by his physician. Although the annuitant's impairment is subject to temporary remission and exacerbations, the improvement that has occurred has been sustained long enough to permit a finding of medical improvement. The Board would then determine if this medical improvement is related to the annuitant's ability to work.
(b)
Medical improvement not related to ability to do work.
Medical improvement is not related to the annuitant's ability to work if there has been a decrease in the severity of the impairment(s) (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision, but no increase in that annuitant's functional capacity to do basic work activities as defined in paragraph (d) of this section. If there has been any medical improvement in an annuitant's impairment(s), but it is not related to the annuitant's ability to do work and none of the exceptions applies, the annuity will be continued.

# Example:
An annuitant was 65 inches tall and weighed 246 pounds at the time his disability was established. He had venous insufficiency and persistent edema in his legs. At the time, the annuitant's ability to do basic work activities was affected because he was able to sit for 6 hours, but was able to stand or walk only occasionally. At the time of the Board's continuing disability review, the annuitant had undergone a vein stripping operation. He now weighed 220 pounds and had intermittent edema. He is still able to sit for 6 hours at a time and to stand or walk only occasionally although he reports less discomfort on walking. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of the existing impairment as shown by his weight loss and the improvement in his edema. This medical improvement is not related to his ability to work, however, because his functional capacity to do basic work activities (i.e., the ability to sit, stand and walk) has not increased.
(c)
Medical improvement that is related to ability to do work.
Medical improvement is related to an annuitant's ability to work if there has been a decrease in the severity (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) of the impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision and an increase in the annuitant's functional capacity to do basic work activities as discussed in paragraph (d) of this section. A determination that medical improvement related to an annuitant's ability to do work has occurred does not, necessarily, mean that such annuitant's disability will be found to have ended unless it is also shown that the annuitant is currently able to engage in substantial gainful activity as discussed in paragraph (e) of this section.

# Example 1:
The annuitant has a back impairment and has had a laminectomy to relieve the nerve root impingement and weakness in his left leg. At the time of the Board's prior decision, basic work activities were affected because he was able to stand less than 6 hours, and sit no more than
1/2
hour at a time. The annuitant had a successful fusion operation on his back about 1 year before the Board's review of his entitlement. At the time of the Board's review, the weakness in his leg has decreased. The annuitant's functional capacity to perform basic work activities now is unimpaired because he now has no limitation on his ability to sit, walk, or stand. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of his impairment as demonstrated by the decreased weakness in his leg. This medical improvement is related to his ability to work because there has also been an increase in his functional capacity to perform basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) as shown by the absence of limitation on his ability to sit, walk, or stand. Whether or not his disability is found to have ended, however, will depend on the Board's determination as to whether he can currently engage in substantial gainful activity.

# Example 2:
The annuitant was injured in an automobile accident receiving a compound fracture to his right femur and a fractured pelvis. When he applied for disability annuity 10 months after the accident his doctor reported that neither fracture had yet
achieved solid union based on his clinical examination. X-rays supported this finding. The annuitant's doctor estimated that solid union and a subsequent return to full weight bearing would not occur for at least 3 more months. At the time of the Board's review 6 months later, solid union had occurred and the annuitant had been returned to full weight-bearing for over a month. His doctor reported this and the fact that his prior fractures no longer placed any limitation on his ability to walk, stand, and lift, and, that in fact, he could return to full-time work if he so desired.
Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of the annuitant's impairments as shown by x-ray and clinical evidence of solid union and his return to full weight-bearing. This medical improvement is related to his ability to work because these findings no longer support an impairment of the severity of the impairment on which the finding that he was medically disabled was based (see § 220.178(c)(1)). Whether or not the annuitant's disability is found to have ended will depend on the Board's determination as to whether he can currently engage in substantial gainful activity.
(d)
Functional capacity to do basic work activities.
(1) Under the law, disability is defined, in part, as the inability to do any regular employment by reason of a physical or mental impairment(s). “Regular employment” is defined in this part as “substantial gainful activity.” In determining whether the annuitant is disabled under the law, the Board will measure, therefore, how and to what extent the annuitant's impairment(s) has affected his or her ability to do work. The Board does this by looking at how the annuitant's functional capacity for doing basic work activities has been affected. Basic work activities means the abilities and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs. Included are exertional abilities such as walking, standing, pushing, pulling, reaching and carrying, and non-exertional abilities and aptitudes such as seeing, hearing, speaking, remembering, using judgment, dealing with changes in a work setting and dealing with both supervisors and fellow workers. The annuitant who has no impairment(s) would be able to do all basic work activities at normal levels; he or she would have an unlimited functional capacity to do basic work activities. Depending on its nature and severity, an impairment(s) will result in some limitation to the functional capacity to do one or more of these basic work activities. Diabetes, for example, can result in circulatory problems which could limit the length of time the annuitant could stand or walk and can result in damage to his or her eyes as well, so that the annuitant also had limited vision. What the annuitant can still do, despite his or her impairment(s), is called his or her residual functional capacity. How the residual functional capacity is assessed is discussed in more detail in § 220.120. Unless an impairment is so severe that it is deemed to prevent the annuitant from doing substantial gainful activity (
i.e.,
the impairment(s) is medically disabling), it is this residual functional capacity that is used to determine whether the annuitant can still do his or her past work or, in conjunction with his or her age, education and work experience, do any other work.
(2) A decrease in the severity of an impairment as measured by changes (improvement) in symptoms, signs or laboratory findings can, if great enough, result in an increase in the functional capacity to do work activities. Vascular surgery (e.g., femoropopliteal bypass) may sometimes reduce the severity of the circulatory complications of diabetes so that better circulation results and the annuitant can stand or walk for longer periods. When new evidence showing a change in medical findings establishes that both medical improvement has occurred and the annuitant's functional capacity to perform basic work activities, or residual functional capacity, has increased, the Board will find that medical improvement which is related to the annuitant's ability to do work has occurred. A residual functional capacity assessment is also used to determine whether an annuitant can engage in substantial gainful activity and, thus, whether he or she continues to be disabled (see paragraph (e) of this section).
(3) Many impairment-related factors must be considered in assessing an annuitant's functional capacity for basic work activities. Age is one key factor. Medical literature shows that there is a gradual decrease in organ function with age; that major losses and deficits
become irreversible over time and that maximum exercise performance diminishes with age. Other changes related to sustained periods of inactivity and the aging process include muscle atrophy, degenerative joint changes, decrease in range of motion, and changes in the cardiac and respiratory systems which limit the exertional range.
(4) Studies have also shown that the longer the annuitant is away from the workplace and is inactive, the more difficult it becomes to return to ongoing gainful employment. In addition, a gradual change occurs in most jobs so that after about 15 years, it is no longer realistic to expect that skills and abilities acquired in these jobs will continue to apply to the current workplace. Thus, if the annuitant is age 50 or over and had been receiving a disability annuity for a considerable period of time, the Board will consider this factor along with his or her age in assessing the residual functional capacity. This will ensure that the disadvantages resulting from inactivity and the aging process during a longer period of disability will be considered. In some instances where available evidence does not resolve what the annuitant can or cannot do on a sustained basis, the Board may provide special work evaluations or other appropriate testing.
(e)
Ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
In most instances, the Board must show that the annuitant is able to engage in substantial gainful activity before stopping his or her annuity. When doing this, the Board will consider all of the annuitant's current impairments not just that impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable determination. If the Board cannot determine that the annuitant is still disabled based on medical considerations alone (as discussed in §§ 220.110 through 220.115), it will use the new symptoms, signs and laboratory findings to make an objective assessment of functional capacity to do basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) and will consider vocational factors. See §§ 220.120 through 220.134.
(f)
Evidence and basis for the Board's decision.
The Board's decisions under this section will be made on a neutral basis without any initial inference as to the presence or absence of disability being drawn from the fact that the annuitant had previously been determined to be disabled. The Board will consider all of the evidence the annuitant submits. An annuitant must give the Board reports from his or her physician, psychologist, or others who have treated or evaluated him or her, as well as any other evidence that will help the board determine if he or she is still disabled (see § 220.45). The annuitant must have a good reason for not giving the Board this information or the Board may find that his or her disability has ended (see § 220.178(b)(2)). If the Board asks the annuitant, he or she must contact his or her medical sources to help the Board get the medical reports. The Board will make every reasonable effort to help the annuitant in getting medical reports when he or she gives the Board permission to request them from his or her physician, psychologist, or other medical sources, Every reasonable effort means that the Board will make an initial request and, after 20 days, one follow-up request to the annuitant's medical source to obtain the medical evidence necessary to make a determination before the Board evaluates medical evidence obtained from another source on a consultative basis. The medical source will have 10 days from the follow-up to reply (unless experience indicates that a longer period is advisable in a particular case). In some instances the Board may order a consultative examination while awaiting receipt of medical source evidence. Before deciding that an annuitant's disability has ended, the Board will develop a complete medical history covering at least the preceding 12 months (See § 220.45(b)). A consultative examination may be purchased when the Board needs additional evidence to determine whether or not an annuitant's disability continues. As a result, the Board may ask the annuitant, upon the Board request and reasonable notice, to undergo consultative examinations and tests to help the Board determine whether the annuitant is still disabled (see § 220.50). The Board will decide
whether or not to purchase a consultative examination in accordance with the standards in §§ 220.53 through 220.54.
(g)
Point of comparison.
For purposes of determining whether medical improvement has occurred, the Board will compare the current medical severity of that impairment(s), which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that the annuitant was disabled or continued to be disabled, to the medical severity of that impairment(s) at that time. If medical improvement has occurred, the Board will compare the annuitant's current functional capacity to do basic work activities (i.e., his or her residual functional capacity) based on this previously existing impairment(s) with the annuitant's prior residual functional capacity in order to determine whether the medical improvement is related to his or her ability to do work. The most recent favorable medical decision is the latest decision involving a consideration of the medical evidence and the issue of whether the annuitant was disabled or continued to be disabled which became final.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63601, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.178
Determining medical improvement and its relationship to the annuitant's ability to do work.
(a)
General.
Paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of § 220.177 discuss what is meant by medical improvement, medical improvement not related to the ability to work and medical improvement that is related to the ability to work. How the Board will arrive at the decision that medical improvement has occurred and its relationship to the ability to do work, is discussed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Determining if medical improvement is related to ability to work.
If there is a decrease in medical severity as shown by the symptoms, signs and laboratory findings, the Board then must determine if it is related to the annuitant's ability to do work. In § 220.177(d) the relationship between medical severity and limitation on functional capacity to do basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) and how changes in medical severity can affect the annuitant's residual functional capacity is explained. In determining whether medical improvement that has occurred is related to the annuitant's ability to do work, the Board will assess the annuitant's residual functional capacity (in accordance with § 220.177(d)) based on the current severity of the impairment(s) which was present at that annuitant's last favorable medical decision. The annuitant's new residual functional capacity will then be compared to the annuitant's residual functional capcity at the time of the Board's most recent favorable medical decision. Unless an increase in the current residual functional capacity is based on changes in the signs, symptoms, or laboratory findings, any medical improvement that has occurred will not be considered to be related to the annuitant's ability to do work.
(c)
Additional factors and considerations.
The Board will also apply the following in its determinations of medical improvement and its relationship to the annuitant's ability to do work:
(1)
Previous impairment was medically disabling.
If the Board's most recent favorable decision was based on the fact that the annuitant's impairment(s) at that time was medically disabling, an assessment of his or her residual functional capacity would not have been made. If medical improvement has occurred and the current severity of the prior impairment(s) is no longer medically disabling based on the standard (
see
§ 220.100(b)(3)) applied at the time of that decision, the Board will find that the medical improvement was related to the annuitant's ability to work. If the medical findings support impairment(s) that is currently so severe as to be medically disabling, the annuitant is deemed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to be unable to engage in substantial gainful activity. If there has been medical improvement to the degree that the impairment(s) is not currently medically disabling, then there has been medical improvement related to the annuitant's ability to work. The Board must, of course, also establish that the annuitant can currently engage in gainful activity before finding that his or her disability has ended.
(2)
Prior residual functional capacity assessment made.
The residual functional capacity assessment used in making the most recent favorable medical decision will be compared to the residual functional capacity assessment based on current evidence in order to determine if an annuitant's functional capacity for basic work activities has increased. There will be no attempt made to reassess the prior residual functional capacity.
(3)
Prior residual functional capacity assessment should have been made, but was not.
If the most recent favorable medical decision should have contained an assessment of the annuitant's residual functional capacity (i.e., his or her impairment(s) was not medically disabling) but does not, either because this assessment is missing from the annuitant's file or because it was not done, the Board will reconstruct the residual functional capacity. This reconstructed residual functional capacity will accurately and objectively assess the annuitant's functional capacity to do basic work activities. The Board will assign the maximum functional capacity consistent with an allowance.

# Example:
The annuitant was previously found to be disabled on the basis that while his impairment was not medically disabling, it did prevent him from doing his past or any other work. The prior adjudicator did not, however, include a residual functional capacity assessment in the rationale of that decision and a review of the prior evidence does not show that such an assessment was ever made. If a decrease in medical severity, i.e., medical improvement, has occurred, the residual functional capacity based on the current level of severity of the annuitant's impairment will have to be compared with his residual functional capacity based on its prior severity in order to determine if the medical improvement is related to his ability to do work. In order to make this comparison, the Board will review the prior evidence and make an objective assessment of the annuitant's residual functional capacity at the time of its most recent favorable medical determination, based on the symptoms, signs and laboratory findings as they then existed.
(4)
Impairment subject to temporary remission.
In some cases the evidence shows that the annuitant's impairment(s) are subject to temporary remission. In assessing whether medical improvement has occurred in annuitants with this type of impairment(s), the Board will be careful to consider the longitudinal history of the impairment(s), including the occurrence of prior remission, and prospects for future worsenings. Improvement in such impairment(s) that is only temporary, i.e., less than 1 year, will not warrant a finding of medical improvement.
(5)
Prior file cannot be located.
If the prior file cannot be located, the Board will first determine whether the annuitant is able to now engage in substantial gainful activity based on all of his or her current impairments. (In this way, the Board will be able to determine that his or her disability continues at the earliest point without addressing the often lengthy process of reconstructing prior evidence.) If the annuitant cannot engage in substantial gainful activity currently, his or her disability will continue unless one of the second group of exceptions applies (see § 220.179(b)).
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63602, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.179
Exceptions to medical improvement.
(a)
First group of exceptions to medical improvement.
The law provides for certain limited situations when the annuitant's disability can be found to have ended even though medical improvement has not occurred, if he or she can engage in substantial gainful activity. These exceptions to medical improvement are intended to provide a way of finding that the annuitant is no longer disabled in those limited situations where, even though there has been no decrease in severity of the impairment(s), evidence shows that the annuitant should no longer be considered disabled or never should have been considered disabled. If one of these exceptions applies, the Board must also show that, taking all of the annuitant's current impairment(s) into account, not just those that existed at the time of the Board's most recent favorable medical decision, the annuitant is now able to engage in substantial gainful activity before his or her disability can be found to have ended. As part of the review process, the annuitant will be asked about any medical or vocational therapy that he or she has received or
is receiving. Those answers and the evidence gathered as a result as well as all other evidence, will serve as the basis for the finding that an exception applies.
(1)
Substantial evidence shows that the annuitant is the beneficiary of advances in medical or vocational therapy or technology (related to his or her ability to work).
Advances in medical or vocational therapy or technology are improvements in treatment or rehabilitative methods which have increased the annuitant's ability to do basic work activities. The Board will apply this exception when substantial evidence shows that the annuitant has been the beneficiary of services which reflect these advances and they have favorably affected the severity of his or her impairment(s) or ability to do basic work activities. This decision will be based on new medical evidence and a new residual functional capacity assessment. In many instances, an advanced medical therapy or technology will result in a decrease in severity as shown by symptoms, signs and laboratory findings which will meet the definition of medical improvement. This exception will, therefore, see very limited application.
(2)
Substantial evidence shows that the annuitant has undergone vocational therapy (related to his or her ability to work).
Vocational therapy (related to the annuitant's ability to work) may include, but is not limited to, additional education, training, or work experience that improves his or her ability to meet the vocational requirements of more jobs. This decision will be based on substantial evidence which includes new medical evidence and a new residual functional capacity assessment. If, at the time of the Board's review the annuitant has not completed vocational therapy which could affect the continuance of his or her disability, the Board will review such annuitant's claim upon completion of the therapy.

# Example 1:
The annuitant was found to be disabled because the limitations imposed on him by his impairment(s) allowed him to only do work that was at a sedentary level of exertion. The annuitant's prior work experience was work that required a medium level of exertion with no acquired skills that could be transferred to sedentary work. His age, education, and past work experience at the time did not qualify him for work that was below this medium level of exertion. The annuitant enrolled in and completed a specialized training course which qualifies him for a job in data processing as a computer programmer in the period since he was awarded a disability annuity. On review of his claim, current evidence shows that there is no medical improvement and that he can still do only sedentary work. As the work of a computer programmer is sedentary in nature, he is now able to engage in substantial gainful activity when his new skills are considered.

# Example 2:
The annuitant was previously entitled to a disability annuity because the medical evidence and assessment of his residual functional capacity showed he could only do light work. His prior work was considered to be of a heavy exertional level with no acquired skills that could be transferred to light work. His age, education, and past work experience did not qualify him for work that was below the heavy level of exertion. The current evidence and residual functional capacity show there has been no medical improvement and that he can still do only light work. Since he was originally entitled to a disability annuity, his vocational rehabilitation agency enrolled him in and he successfully completed a trade school course so that he is now qualified to do small appliance repair. This work is light in nature, so when his new skills are considered, he is now able to engage in substantial gainful activity even though there has been no change in his residual functional capacity.
(3)
Substantial evidence shows that based on new or improved diagnostic or evaluative techniques the annuitant's impairment(s) is not as disabling as it was considered to be at the time of the most recent favorable decision.
Changing methodologies and advances in medical and other diagnostic or evaluative techniques have given, and will continue to give, rise to improved methods for measuring and documenting the effect of various impairments on the ability to do work. Where, by such new or improved methods, substantial evidence shows that the annuitant's impairment(s) is not as severe as was determined at the time of the Board's most recent favorable medical decision, such evidence may serve as a basis for finding that the annuitant can engage in substantial gainful activity and is no longer disabled. In order to be used under this exception, however, the new or improved techniques must have become generally available after the date of the Board's most recent favorable medical decision.
(i)
How the Board will determine which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
New or improved diagnostic techniques or evaluations will come to the Board's attention by several methods. In reviewing cases, the Board often becomes aware of new techniques when their results are presented as evidence. Such techniques and evaluations are also discussed and acknowledged in medical literature by medical professional groups and other governmental entities. Through these sources, the Board develops listings of new techniques and when they become generally available.
(ii)
How the annuitant will know which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
The Board will let annuitants know which methods it considers to be new or improved techniques and when they become available.

# Example:
The electrocardiographic exercise test has replaced the Master's 2-step test as a measurement of heart function since the time of the annuitant's last favorable medical decision. Current evidence shows that the annuitant's impairment, which was previously evaluated based on the Master's 2-step test, is not now as disabling as was previously thought. If, taking all his current impairments into account, the annuitant is now able to engage in substantial gainful activity, this exception would be used to find that he is no longer disabled even if medical improvement has not occurred.
(4)
Substantial evidence demonstrates that any prior disability decision was in error.
The Board will apply the exception to medical improvement based on error if substantial evidence (which may be evidence on the record at the time any prior determination of the entitlement to an annuity based on disability was made, or newly obtained evidence which relates to that determination) demonstrates that a prior determination was in error. A prior determination will be found in error only if:
(i) Substantial evidence shows on its face that the decision in question should not have been made (e.g., the evidence in file such as pulmonary function study values was misread or an adjudicative standard such as a medical/vocational rule in appendix 2 of this part was misapplied).

# Example 1:
The annuitant was granted a disability annuity when it was determined that his epilepsy met Listing 11.02. This listing calls for a finding of major motor seizures more frequently than once a month as documented by EEG evidence and by a detailed description of a typical seizure pattern. As history of either diurnal episodes or nocturnal episodes with residuals interfering with daily activities is also required. On review, it is found that a history of the frequency of his seizures showed that they occurred only once or twice a year. The prior decision would be found to be in error, and whether the annuitant was still considered to be disabled would be based on whether he could currently engage in substantial gainful activity.

# Example 2:
The annuitant's prior award of a disability annuity was based on vocational rule 201.14 in appendix 2 of this part. This rule applies to a person age 50-54 who has at least a high school education, whose previous work was entirely at semiskilled level, and who can do only sedentary work. On review it is found that at the time of the prior determination the annuitant was actually only age 46 and vocational rule 201.21 should have been used. This rule would have called for a denial of his claim and the prior decision is found to have been in error. Continuation of his disability would depend on a finding of his current inability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
(ii) At the time of the prior evaluation, required and material evidence of the severity of the annuitant's impairment(s) was missing. That evidence becomes available upon review, and substantial evidence demonstrates that had such evidence been present at the time of the prior determination, disability would not have been found.

# Example:
The annuitant was found disabled on the basis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The severity of his impairment was documented primarily by pulmonary function testing results. The evidence showed that he could do only light work. Spirometric tracings of this testing, although required, were not obtained, however. On review, the original report is resubmitted by the consultative examining physician along with the corresponding spirometric tracings. A review of the tracings shows that the test was invalid. Current pulmonary function testing supported by spirometric tracings reveals that the annuitant's impairment does not limit his ability to perform basic work activities in any way. Error is found based on the fact that required material evidence, which was originally missing, now becomes available and shows that if it had been available at the time of the prior
determination, disability would not have been found.
(iii) Substantial evidence which is new evidence relating to the prior determination (of allowance or continuance) refutes the conclusions that were based upon the prior evidence (e.g., a tumor thought to be malignant was later shown to have actually been benign). Substantial evidence must show that had the new evidence (which relates to the prior determination) been considered at the time of the prior decision, the disability would not have been allowed or continued. A substitution of current judgment for that used in the prior favorable decision will not be the basis for applying this exception.

# Example:
The annuitant was previously found entitled to a disability annuity on the basis of diabetes mellitus which the prior adjudicator believed was medically disabling. The prior record shows that the annuitant has “brittle” diabetes for which he was taking insulin. The annuitant's urine was 3 + for sugar, and he alleged occasional hypoglycemic attacks caused by exertion. His doctor felt the diabetes was never really controlled because he was not following his diet or taking his medication regularly. On review, symptoms, signs and laboratory findings are unchanged. The current adjudicator feels, however, that the annuitant's impairment clearly is not medically disabling. Error cannot be found because it would represent a substitution of current judgment for that of the prior adjudicator that the annuitant's impairment was medically disabling. The exception for error will not be applied retroactively under the conditions set out above unless the conditions for reopening the prior decision are met.
(5)
The annuitant is currently engaging in substantial gainful activity.
If the annuitant is currently engaging in substantial gainful activity, before the Board determines whether he or she is no longer disabled because of his or her work activity, the Board will consider whether he or she is entitled to a trial work period as set out in § 220.170. The Board will find that the annuitant's disability has ended in the month in which he or she demonstrated the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity (following completion of a trial work period, where it applies). This exception does not apply in determining whether the annuitant continues to have a disabling impairment(s) for purposes of deciding his or her eligibility for a reentitlement period.
(b)
Second group of exceptions to medical improvement.
In addition to the first group of exceptions to medical improvement, the following exceptions may result in a determination that the annuitant is no longer disabled. In these situations the decision will be made without a determination that the annuitant has medically improved or can engage in substantial gainful activity.
(1)
A prior determination was fraudulently obtained.
If the Board finds that any prior favorable determination was obtained by fraud, it may find that the annuitant is not disabled. In addition, the Board may reopen the claim.
(2)
Failure to cooperate with the Board.
If there is a question about whether the annuitant continues to be disabled and the Board requests that he or she submit medical or other evidence or go for a physical or mental examination by a certain date, the Board will find that the annuitant's disability has ended if he or she fails (without good cause) to do what is requested. The month in which the annuitant's disability ends will be the first month in which he or she failed to do what was requested.
(3)
Inability of the Board to locate the annuitant.
If there is question about whether the annuitant continues to be disabled and the Board is unable to find him or her to resolve the question, the Board will suspend annuity payments. If, after a suitable investigation, the Board is still unable to locate the annuitant, the Board will determine that the annuitant's disability has ended. The month such annuitant's disability ends will be the first month in which the question arose and the annuitant could not be found.
(4)
Failure of the annuitant to follow prescribed treatment which would be expected to restore the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
If treatment has been prescribed for the annuitant which would be expected to restore his or her ability to work, he or she must follow that treatment in order to be paid a disability annuity. If the annuitant is not following that treatment and he or she does not have good cause for failing to follow the treatment, the
Board will find that his or her disability has ended. The month such annuitant's disability ends will be the first month in which he or she failed to follow the prescribed treatment.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63602, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.180
Determining continuation or cessation of disability.
Evaluation steps.
To assure that disability reviews are carried out in a uniform manner, that decisions of continuing disability can be made in the most expeditious and administratively efficient way, and that any decisions to stop a disability annuity are made objectively, neutrally and are fully documented, the Board will follow specific steps in reviewing the question of whether an annuitant's disability continues. The Board's review may cease and the disability may be continued at any point if the Board determines that there is sufficient evidence to find that the annuitant is still unable to engage in substantial gainful activity. The steps are—
(a) Is the annuitant engaging in substantial gainful activity? If he or she is (and any applicable trial work period has been completed), the Board will find disability to have ended (see § 220.179(a)(5));
(b) If the annuitant is not engaging in substantial gainful activity, does he or she have an impairment or combination of impairments which is medically disabling? If the annuitant's impairment(s) is medically disabling, his or her disability will be found to continue;
(c) If the annuitant's impairment(s) is not medically disabling, has there been medical improvement as defined in § 220.177(a)? If there has been medical improvement as shown by a decrease in medical severity, see step (d). If there has been no decrease in medical severity, then there has been no medical improvement; (See step (e));
(d) If there has been medical improvement, the Board must determine whether it is related to the annuitant's ability to do work in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (d) of § 220.177, (i.e., whether or not there has been an increase in the residual functional capacity based on the impairment(s) that was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical determination). If medical improvement is not related to the annuitant's ability to do work, see step (e). If medical improvement is related to the annuitant's ability to do work, see step (f);
(e) If the Board found at step (c) that there has been no medical improvement or if it found at step (d) that the medical improvement is not related to the annuitant's ability to work, the Board considers whether any of the exceptions in § 220.178 apply. If none of them apply, disability will be found to continue. If one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, see step (f). If an exception from the second group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, disability will be found to have ended. The second group of exceptions to medical improvement may be considered at any point in this process;
(f) If medical improvement is shown to be related to the annuitant's ability to do work or if one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, the Board will determine whether all of the annuitant's current impairments in combination are severe. This determination will consider all current impairments and the impact of the combination of those impairments on the ability to function. If the residual functional capacity assessment in step (d) above shows significant limitation of ability to do basic work activities, see step (g). When the evidence shows that all current impairments in combination do not significantly limit physical or mental abilities to do basic work activities, these impairments will not be considered severe in nature, and the annuitant will no longer be consider to be disabled;
(g) If the annuitant's impairment(s) is severe, the Board will assess his or her current ability to engage in substantial gainful activity. That is, the Board will assess the annuitant's residual functional capacity based on all of his or her current impairments and consider whether he or she can still do work that was done in the past. If he or she can do such work, disability will be found to have ended; and
(h) If the annuitant is not able to do work he or she has done in the past,
the Board will consider one final step. Given the residual functional capacity assessment and considering the annuitant's age, education and past work experience, can he or she do other work? If the annuitant can do other work, disability will be found to have ended. If he or she cannot do other work, disability will be found to continue.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63603, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.181
The month in which the Board will find that the annuitant is no longer disabled.
If the evidence shows that the annuitant is no longer disabled, the Board will find that his or her disability ended in the earliest of the following months—
(a) The month the Board mails the annuitant a notice saying that the Board finds that he or she is no longer disabled based on evidence showing:
(1) There has been medical improvement in the annuitant's impairments related to the ability to work and the annuitant has the capacity to engage in substantial gainful work under the rules set out in §§ 220.177 and 220.178; or
(2) There has been no medical improvement in the annuitant's impairments related to the ability to work but the annuitant has the capacity to engage in substantial gainful work and one of the exceptions to medical improvement set out in § 220.179(a)(1), (2), (3) or (4) applies.
(b) The month in which the annuitant demonstrated his or her ability to engage in substantial gainful activity (following completion of a trial work period);
(c) The month in which the annuitant actually does substantical gainful activity where such annuitant is not entitled to a trial work period;
(d) The month in which the annuitant returns to full-time work, with no significant medical restrictions and acknowledges that medical improvement has occurred, and the Board expected the annuitant's impairment(s) to improve;
(e) The first month in which the annuitant failed without good cause to do what the Board asked, when the rule set out in paragraph (b)(2) of § 220.179 applies;
(f) The first month in which the question of continuing disability arose and the Board could not locate the annuitant after a suitable investigation (see § 220.179(b)(3));
(g) The first month in which the annuitant failed without good cause to follow prescribed treatment, when the rule set out in paragraph (b)(4) of § 220.179 applies; or
(h) The first month the annuitant was told by his or her physician that he or she could return to work provided there is no substantial conflict between the physician's and the annuitant's statements regarding that annuitant's awareness of his or her capacity for work and the earlier date is supported by the medical evidence.
(i) The month the evidence shows that the annuitant is no longer disabled under the rules set out in §§ 220.177 through 220.180, and he or she was disabled only for a specified period of time in the past as discussed in § 220.21 or § 220.105;
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63603, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.182
Before a disability annuity is stopped.
Before the Board stops a disability annuity, it will give the annuitant a chance to explain why it should not do so.
§ 220.183
Notice that the annuitant is not disabled.
(a)
General.
If the Board determines that the annuitant does not meet the disability requirements of the law, the disability annuity will generally stop. Except in the circumstance described in paragraph (d) of this section, the Board will give the annuitant advance written notice when the Board has determined that he or she is not now disabled.
(b)
What the advance written notice will tell the annuitant.
The advance written notice will provide—
(1) A summary of the information the Board has and an explanation of why the Board believes the annuitant is no longer disabled. If it is because of medical reasons, the notice will tell the annuitant what the medical information
in his or her file shows. If it is because of the annuitant's work activity, the notice will tell the annuitant what information the Board has about the work he or she is doing or has done, and why this work shows that he or she is not disabled. If it is because of the annuitant's failure to give the Board information the Board needs or failure to do what the Board asks, the notice will tell the annuitant what information the Board needs and why, or what the annuitant has to do and why;
(2) The date the disability annuity will stop;
(3) An opportunity for the annuitant to submit evidence within a specified period to support continuance of disability before the decision becomes final; and
(4) An explanation of the annuitant's rights to reconsideration and appeal after the decision becomes final.
(c)
What the annuitant should do if he or she receives an advance written notice.
If the annuitant agrees with the advance written notice, he or she does not need to take any action. If the annuitant desires further information or disagrees with what the Board has told him or her, the annuitant should immediately write or visit a Board office. If the annuitant believes he or she is now disabled, the annuitant should tell the Board why. The annuitant may give the Board any additional or new information, including reports from doctors, hospitals, railroad or non-railroad employers, or others that he or she believes the Board should have. The annuitant should send these as soon as possible to a Board office.
(d)
When the Board will not give the annuitant advance written notice.
The Board will not give the annuitant advance written notice when the Board determines that he or she is not now disabled if the Board recently told the annuitant that—
(1) The information the Board has shows that he or she is not disabled;
(2) The Board was gathering more information; and
(3) The disability annuity would stop.
§ 220.184
If the annuitant becomes disabled by another impairment(s).
If a new severe impairment(s) begins in or before the month in which the last impairment(s) ends, the Board will find that disability is continuing. The impairment(s) need not be expected to last 12 months or to result in death, but it must be severe enough to keep the annuitant from doing substantial gainful activity, or severe enough so that he or she is still disabled.
§ 220.185
The Board may conduct a review to find out whether the annuitant continues to be disabled.
After the Board finds that the annuitant is disabled, the Board must evaluate the annuitant's impairment(s) from time to time to determine if the annuitant is still eligible for disability cash benefits. The Board calls this evaluation a continuing disability review. The Board may begin a continuing disability review for any number of reasons including the annuitant's failure to follow the provisions of the Railroad Retirement Act or these regulations. When the Board begins such a review, the Board will notify the annuitant that the Board is reviewing the annuitant's eligibility for disability benefits, why the Board is reviewing the annuitant's eligibility, that in medical reviews the medical improvement review standard will apply, that the Board's review could result in the termination of the annuitant's benefits, and that the annuitant has the right to submit medical and other evidence for the Board's consideration during the continuing disability review. In doing a medical review the Board will develop a complete medical history of at least the preceding 12 months in any case in which a determination is made that the annuitant is no longer under a disability. If this review shows that the Board should stop payment of cash benefits, the Board will notify the annuitant in writing and give the annuitant an opportunity to appeal. In § 220.186 the Board describes those events that may prompt it to review whether the annuitant continues to be disabled.
§ 220.186
When and how often the Board will conduct a continuing disability review.
(a)
General.
The Board conducts continuing disability reviews to determine whether or not the annuitant continues
to meet the disability requirements of the law. Payment of cash benefits or a period of disability ends if the medical or other evidence shows that the annuitant is not disabled under the standards set out in section 2 of the Railroad Retirement Act or section 223(f) of the Social Security Act.
(b)
When the Board will conduct a continuing disability review.
A continuing disability review will be started if—
(1) The annuitant has been scheduled for a medical improvement expected diary review;
(2) The annuitant has been scheduled for a periodic review in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) The Board needs a current medical or other report to see if the annuitant's disability continues. (This could happen when, for example, an advance in medical technology, such as improved treatment for Alzheimer's disease or a change in vocational therapy or technology raises a disability issue.);
(4) The annuitant returns to work and successfully completes a period of trial work;
(5) Substantial earnings are reported to the annuitant's wage record;
(6) The annuitant tells the Board that he or she has recovered from his or her disability or that he or she has returned to work;
(7) A State Vocational Rehabilitation Agency tells the Board that—
(i) The services have been completed; or
(ii) The annuitant is now working; or
(iii) The annuitant is able to work;
(8) Someone in a position to know of the annuitant's physical or mental condition tells the Board that the annuitant is not disabled, that the annuitant in not following prescribed treatment, that the annuitant has returned to work, or that the annuitant is failing to follow the provisions of the Social Security Act, the Railroad Retirement Act, or these regulations, and it appears that the report could be substantially correct; or
(9) Evidence the Board receives raises a question as to whether the annuitant's disability continues.
(c)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Medical improvement expected diary—
refers to a case which is scheduled for review at a later date because the individual's impairment(s) is expected to improve. Generally, the diary period is set for not less than 6 months or for not more than 18 months. Examples of cases likely to be scheduled for a medical improvement excepted diary are fractures and cases in which corrective surgery is planned and recovery can be anticipated. The term “medical improvement expected diary” also includes a case which is scheduled for a review at a later date because the individual is undergoing vocational therapy, training or an educational program which may improve his or her ability to work so that the disability requirement of the law is no longer met. Generally, the diary period will be the length of the training, therapy, or program of education.
Permanent impairment medical improvement not expected—refers
to a case in which any medical improvement in the person's impairment(s) is not expected. This means an extremely severe condition determined on the basis of our experience in administering the disability program to be at least static, but more likely to be progressively disabling either by itself or by reason of impairment complications, and unlikely to improve so as to permit the individual to engage in substantial gainful activity. The interaction of the individual's age, impairment consequences and lack of recent attachment to the labor market may also be considered in determining whether an impairment is permanent. Improvement which is considered temporary under § 220.178(c)(3), will not be considered in deciding if an impairment is permanent. Examples of permanent impairments are as follows and are not intended to be all inclusive:
(1) Parkinsonian syndrome with significant rigidity, brady kinesia, or tremor in two extremities, which, singly or in combination, result in sustained disturbance of gross and dexterous movements, or gait and station.
(2) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, based on documentation of a clinically appropriate medical history, neurological findings consistent with the diagnosis of ALS, and the results of any
electrophysiological and neuroimaging testing.
(3) Diffuse pulmonary fibrosis in an individual age 55 or older which reduces FEV1 to 1.45 to 2.05 (L, BTPS) or less depending on the individual's height.
(4) Amputation of leg at hip.
Nonpermanent impairment
refers to a case in which any medical improvement in the person's impairment(s) is possible. This means an impairment for which improvement cannot be predicted based on current experience and the facts of the particular case but which is not at the level of severity of an impairment that is considered permanent. Examples of nonpermanent impairments are: regional enteritis, hyperthyroidism, and chronic ulcerative colitis.
(d)
Frequency of review.
If an annuitant's impairment is expected to improve, generally the Board will review the annuitant's continuing eligibility for disability benefits at intervals from 6 months to 18 months following the Board's most recent decision. The Board's notice to the annuitant about the review of the annuitant's case will tell the annuitant more precisely when the review will be conducted. If the annuitant's disability is not considered permanent but is such that any medical improvement in the annuitant's impairment(s) cannot be accurately predicted, the Board will review the annuitant's continuing eligibility for disability benefits at least once every 3 years. If no medical improvement is expected in the annuitant's impairment(s), the Board will not routinely review the annuitant's continuing eligibility. Regardless of the annuitant's classification, the Board will conduct an immediate continuing disability review if a question of continuing disability is raised pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Change in classification of impairment.
If the evidence developed during a continuing disability review demonstrates that the annuitant's impairment has improved, is expected to improve, or has worsened since the last review, the Board may reclassify the annuitant's impairment to reflect this change in severity. A change in the classification of the annuitant's impairment will change the frequency with which the Board will review the case. The Board may also reclassify certain impairments because of improved tests, treatment, and other technical advances concerning those impairments.
(f)
Review after administrative appeal.
If the annuitant was found eligible to receive or to continue to receive disability benefits on the basis of a decision by a hearings officer, the three-member Board or a Federal court, the agency will not conduct a continuing disability review earlier than 3 years after that decision unless the annuitant's case should be scheduled for a medical improvement expected or vocational reexamination diary review or a question of continuing disability is raised pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(g)
Waiver of timeframes.
All cases involving a nonpermanent impairment will be reviewed by the Board at least once every 3 years unless the Board determines that the requirements should be waived to ensure that only the appropriate number of cases are reviewed. The appropriate number of cases to be reviewed is to be based on such considerations as the backlog of pending reviews, the projected number of new applications, and projected staffing levels. Therefore, an annuitant's continuing disability review may be delayed longer than 3 years following the Board's original decision or other review under certain circumstances. Such a delay would be based on the Board's need to ensure that backlogs, and new disability claims workloads are accomplished within available medical and other resources and that such reviews are done carefully and accurately.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 20372, Apr. 17, 2000; 74 FR 63603, Dec. 4, 2009]
§ 220.187
If the annuitant's medical recovery was expected and the annuitant returned to work.
If the annuitant's impairment was expected to improve and the annuitant returned to full-time work with no significant medical limitations and acknowledges that medical improvement has occurred, the Board may find that
the annuitant's disability ended in the month he or she returned to work. Unless there is evidence showing that the annuitant's disability has not ended, the Board will use the medical and other evidence already in the annuitant's file and the fact that he or she has returned to full-time work without significant limitations to determine that the annuitant is no longer disabled. (If the annuitant's impairment is not expected to improve, the Board will not ordinarily review his or her claim until the end of the trial work period, as described in § 220.170.)

# Example:
Evidence obtained during the processing of the annuitant's claim showed that the annuitant had an impairment that was expected to improve about 18 months after the annuitant's disability began. The Board, therefore, told the annuitant that his or her claim would be reviewed again at that time. However, before the time arrived for the annuitant's scheduled medical reexamination, the annuitant told the Board that he or she had returned to work and the annuitant's impairment had improved. The Board investigated immediately and found that, in the 16th month after the annuitant's began, the annuitant returned to full-time work without any significant medical restrictions. Therefore, the Board would find that the annuitant's disability ended in the first month the annuitant returned to full-time work.
Appendix 1 to Part 220 [Reserved]
Pt. 220, App. 2

# Appendix 2 to Part 220—Medical-Vocational Guidelines
Sec.
200.00 Introduction.
201.00 Maximum sustained work capability limited to sedentary work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
202.00 Maximum sustained work capability limited to light work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
203.00 Maximum sustained work capability limited to medium work as a result of severe medically determinable impair- ment(s).
204.00 Maximum sustained work capability limited to heavy work (or very heavy work) as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
200.00
Introduction.
(a) The following rules reflect the major functional and vocational patterns which are encountered in cases which cannot be evaluated on medical considerations alone, where an individual with a severe medically determinable physical or mental impairment(s) is not engaging in substantial gainful activity and the individual's impairment(s) prevents the performance of his or her vocationally relevant past work. They also reflect the analysis of the various vocational factors (i.e., age, education, and work experience) in combination with the individual's residual functional capacity (used to determine his or her maximum sustained work capability for sedentary, light, medium, heavy, or very heavy work) in evaluating the individual's ability to engage in substantial gainful activity in other than his or her vocationally relevant past work. Where the findings of fact made with respect to a particular individual's vocational factors and residual functional capacity coincide with all of the criteria of a particular rule, the rule directs a conclusion as to whether the individual is or is not disabled. However, each of these findings of fact is subject to rebuttal and the individual may present evidence to refute such findings. Where any one of the findings of fact does not coincide with the corresponding criterion of a rule, the rule does not apply in that particular case and, accordingly, does not direct a conclusion of disabled or not disabled. In any instance where a rule does not apply, full consideration must be given to all of the relevant facts of the case in accordance with the definitions and discussions of each factor in the appropriate sections of the regulations.
(b) The existence of jobs in the national economy is reflected in the “Decisions” shown in the rules; i.e., in promulgating the rules, administrative notice has been taken of the numbers of unskilled jobs that exist throughout the national economy at the various functional levels (sedentary, light, medium, heavy, and very heavy) as supported by the “Dictionary of Occupational Titles” and the “Occupational Outlook Handbook,” published by the Department of Labor; the “County Business Patterns” and “Census Surveys” published by the Bureau of the Census; and occupational surveys of light and sedentary jobs prepared for the Social Security Administration by various State employment agencies. Thus, when all factors coincide with the criteria of a rule, the existence of such jobs is established. However, the existence of such jobs for individuals whose remaining functional capacity or other factors do not coincide with the criteria of a rule must be further considered in terms of what kinds of jobs or types of work may be either additionally indicated or precluded.
(c) In the application of the rules, the individual's residual functional capacity (
i.e.,
the maximum degree to which the individual retains the capacity for sustained performance of the physical-mental requirements of jobs), age, education, and work experience must first be determined. When assessing the person's residual functional capacity, the Board
considers his or her symptoms (such as pain), signs, and laboratory findings together with other evidence the Board obtains.
(d) The correct disability decision (i.e., on the issue of ability to engage in substantial gainful activity) is found by then locating the individual's specific vocational profile. If an individual's specific profile is not listed within this appendix 2, a conclusion of disabled or not disabled is not directed. Thus, for example, an individual's ability to engage in substantial gainful work where his or her residual functional capacity falls between the ranges of work indicated in the rules (e.g., the individual who can perform more than light but less than medium work), is decided on the basis of the principles and definitions in the regulations, giving consideration to the rules for specific case situations in this appendix 2. These rules represent various combinations of exertional capabilities, age, education and work experience and also provide an overall structure for evaluation of those cases in which the judgments as to each factor do not coincide with those of any specific rule. Thus, when the necessary judgments have been made as to each factor and it is found that no specific rule applies, the rules still provide guidance for decisionmaking, such as in cases involving combinations of impairments. For example, if strength limitations resulting from an individual's impairment(s) considered with the judgments made as to the individual's age, education and work experience correspond to (or closely approximate) the factors of a particular rule, the adjudicator then has a frame of reference for considering the jobs or types of work precluded by other, nonexertional impairments in terms of numbers of jobs remaining for a particular individual.
(e) Since the rules are predicated on an individual's having an impairment which manifests itself by limitations in meeting the strength requirements of jobs, they may not be fully applicable where the nature of an individual's impairment does not result in such limitations, e.g., certain mental, sensory, or skin impairments. In addition, some impairments may result solely in postural and manipulative limitations or environmental restrictions. Environmental restrictions are those restrictions which result in inability to tolerate some physical feature(s) of work settings that occur in certain industries or types of work, e.g., an inability to tolerate dust or fumes.
(1) In the evaluation of disability where the individual has solely a nonexertional type of impairment, determination as to whether disability exists shall be based on the principles in the appropriate sections of the regulations, giving consideration to the rules for specific case situations in this appendix 2. The rules do not direct factual conclusions of disabled or not disabled for individuals with solely nonexertional types of impairments.
(2) However, where an individual has an impairment or combination of impairments resulting in both strength limitations and nonexertional limitations, the rules in this subpart are considered in determining first whether a finding of disabled may be possible based on the strength limitations alone and, if not, the rule(s) reflecting the individual's maximum residual strength capabilities, age, education, and work experience provide a framework for consideration of how much the individual's work capability is further diminished in terms of any types of jobs that would be contraindicated by the nonexertional limitations. Also, in these combinations of nonexertional and exertional limitations which cannot be wholly determined under the rules in this appendix 2, full consideration must be given to all of the relevant facts in the case in accordance with the definitions and discussions of each factor in the appropriate sections of the regulations, which will provide insight into the adjudicative weight to be accorded each factor.
201.00
Maximum sustained work capability limited to sedentary work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
(a) Most sedentary occupations fall within the skilled, semi-skilled, professional, administrative, technical, clerical, and benchwork classifications. Approximately 200 separate unskilled sedentary occupations can be identified, each representing numerous jobs in the national economy. Approximately 85 percent of these jobs are in the machine trades and benchwork occupational categories. These jobs (unskilled sedentary occupations) may be performed after a short demonstration or within 30 days.
(b) These unskilled sedentary occupations are standard within the industries in which they exist. While sedentary work represents a significantly restricted range of work, this range in itself is not so prohibitively restricted as to negate work capability for substantial gainful activity.
(c) Vocational adjustment to sedentary work may be expected where the individual has special skills or experience relevant to sedentary work or where age and basic educational competences provide sufficient occupational mobility to adapt to the major segment of unskilled sedentary work. Inability to engage in substantial gainful activity would be indicated where an individual who is restricted to sedentary work because of a severe medically determinable impairment lacks special skills or experience relevant to sedentary work, lacks educational qualifications relevant to most sedentary work (e.g., has a limited education or less) and the individual's age, though not necessarily advanced, is a factor which significantly limits vocational adaptability.
(d) The adversity of functional restrictions to sedentary work at advanced age (55 and over) for individuals with no relevant past work or who can no longer perform vocationally relevant past work and have no transferable skills, warrants a finding of disabled in the absence of the rare situation where the individual has recently completed education which provides a basis for direct entry into skilled sedentary work. Advanced age and a history of unskilled work or no work experience would ordinarily offset any vocational advantages that might accrue by reason of any remote past education, whether it is more or less than limited education.
(e) The presence of acquired skills that are readily transferable to a significant range of skilled work within an individual's residual functional capacity would ordinarily warrant a finding of ability to engage in substantial gainful activity regardless of the adversity of age, or whether the individual's formal education is commensurate with his or her demonstrated skill level. The acquisition of work skills demonstrates the ability to perform work at the level of complexity demonstrated by the skill level attained regardless of the individual's formal educational attainments.
(f) In order to find transferability of skills to skilled sedentary work for individuals who are of advanced age (55 and over), there must be very little, if any, vocational adjustment required in terms of tools, work processes, work settings, or the industry.
(g) Individuals approaching advanced age (age 50-54) may be significantly limited in vocational adaptability if they are restricted to sedentary work. When such individuals have no past work experience or can no longer perform vocationally relevant past work and have no transferable skills, a finding of disabled ordinarily obtains. However, recently completed education which provides for direct entry into sedentary work will preclude such a finding. For this age group, even a high school education or more (ordinarily completed in the remote past) would have little impact for effecting a vocational adjustment unless relevant work experience reflects use of such education.
(h) The term “younger individual” is used to denote an individual age 18 through 49. For those within this group who are age 45-49, age is a less positive factor than for those who are age 18-44. Accordingly, for such individuals; (1) who are restricted to sedentary work, (2) who are unskilled or have no transferable skills, (3) who have no relevant past work or who can no longer perform vocationally relevant past work, and (4) who are either illiterate or unable to communicate in the English language, a finding of disabled is warranted. On the other hand, age is a more positive factor for those who are under age 45 and is usually not a significant factor in limiting such an individual's ability to make a vocational adjustment, even an adjustment to unskilled sedentary work, and even where the individual is illiterate or unable to communicate in English. However, a finding of disabled is not precluded for those individuals under age 45 who do not meet all of the criteria of a specific rule and who do not have the ability to perform a full range of sedentary work. The following examples are illustrative: Example 1: An individual under age 45 with a high school education can no longer do past work and is restricted to unskilled sedentary jobs because of a severe medically determinable cardiovascular impairment (which does not meet or equal the listings in appendix 1). A permanent injury of the right hand limits the individual to sedentary jobs which do not require bilateral manual dexterity. None of the rules in appendix 2 are applicable to this particular set of facts, because this individual cannot perform the full range of work defined as sedentary. Since the inability to perform jobs requiring bilateral manual dexterity significantly compromises the only range of work for which the individual is otherwise qualified (i.e., sedentary), a finding of disabled would be appropriate. Example 2: An illiterate 41 year old individual with mild mental retardation (IQ of 78) is restricted to unskilled sedentary work and cannot perform vocationally relevant past work, which had consisted of unskilled agricultural field work; his or her particular characteristics do not specifically meet any of the rules in appendix 2, because this individual cannot perform the full range of work defined as sedentary. In light of the adverse factors which further narrow the range of sedentary work for which this individual is qualified, a finding of disabled is appropriate.
(i) While illiteracy or the inability to communicate in English may significantly limit an individual's vocational scope, the primary work functions in the bulk of unskilled work relate to working with things (rather than with data or people) and in these work functions at the unskilled level, literacy or ability to communicate in English has the least significance. Similarly the lack of relevant work experience would have little significance since the bulk of unskilled jobs require no qualifying work experience. Thus, the functional capability for a full range of sedentary work represents sufficient numbers of jobs to indicate substantial vocational scope for those individuals age 18-44 even if they are illiterate or unable to communicate in English.
Table No. 1—Residual Functional Capacity: Maximum Sustained Work Capability Limited to Sedentary Work as a Result of Severe Medically Determinable Impairment(s)
Rule
Age
Education
Previous work experience
Decision
201.01
Advanced age
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
201.02
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
1
Do.
201.03
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
1
Not disabled.
201.04
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
2
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
201.05
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
2
......do
Not disabled.
201.06
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
2
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
1
Disabled.
201.07
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
1
Not disabled.
201.08
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
2
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
1
Do.
201.09
Closely approaching advanced age
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
201.10
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
201.11
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Not disabled.
201.12
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
3
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
201.13
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
3
......do
Not disabled.
201.14
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
3
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Disabled.
201.15
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Not disabled.
201.16
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
3
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
201.17
Younger individual age 45-49
Illiterate or unable to communicate in English
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
201.18
......do
Limited or less—at least literate and able to communicate in English
......do
Not disabled.
201.19
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
201.20
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
201.21
......do
High school graduate or more
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
201.22
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
201.23
Younger individual age 18-44
Illiterate or unable to communicate in English
Unskilled or none
Do.
4
201.24
......do
Limited or less—at least literate and able to communicate in English
......do
Do.
4
201.25
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
4
201.26
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
4
201.27
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
4
201.28
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
4
201.29
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
4
1
See 201.00(f).
2
See 201.00(d).
3
See 201.00(g).
4
See 201.00(h).
202.00
Maximum sustained work capability limited to light work as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
(a) The functional capacity to perform a full range of light work includes the functional capacity to perform sedentary as well as light work. Approximately 1,600 separate sedentary and light unskilled occupations can be identified in eight broad occupational categories, each occupation representing numerous jobs in the national economy. These jobs can be performed after a short demonstration or within 30 days, and do not require special skills or experience.
(b) The functional capacity to perform a wide or full range of light work represents substantial work capability compatible with making a work adjustment to substantial numbers of unskilled jobs and, thus, generally provides sufficient occupational mobility even for severely impaired individuals who are not of advanced age and have sufficient educational competences for unskilled work.
(c) However, for individuals of advanced age who can no longer perform vocationally relevant past work and who have a history of unskilled work experience, or who have only skills that are not readily transferable to a significant range of semi-skilled or skilled work that is within the individual's functional capacity, or who have no work experience, the limitations in vocational adaptability represented by functional restriction to light work warrant a finding of disabled. Ordinarily, even a high school education or more which was completed in the remote past will have little positive impact on effecting a vocational adjustment unless relevant work experience reflects use of such education.
(d) Where the same factors in paragraph (c) of this section regarding education and work experience are present, but where age, though not advanced, is a factor which significantly limits vocational adaptability (i.e., closely approaching advanced age, 50-54) and an individual's vocational scope is further significantly limited by illiteracy or inability to communicate in English, a finding of disabled is warranted.
(e) The presence of acquired skills that are readily transferable to a significant range of semi-skilled or skilled work within an individual's residual functional capacity would ordinarily warrant a finding of not disabled regardless of the adversity of age, or whether the individual's formal education is commensurate with his or her demonstrated skill level. The acquisition of work skills demonstrates the ability to perform work at the level of complexity demonstrated by the skill level attained regardless of the individual's formal educational attainments.
(f) For a finding of transferability of skills to light work for individuals of advanced age who are closely approaching retirement age (age 60-64), there must be very little, if any, vocational adjustment required in terms of tools, work processes, work settings, or the industry.
(g) While illiteracy or the inability to communicate in English may significantly limit an individual's vocational scope, the primary work functions in the bulk of unskilled work relate to working with things (rather than with data or people) and in these work functions at the unskilled level, literacy or ability to communicate in English has the least significance. Similarly, the lack of relevant work experience would have little significance since the bulk of unskilled jobs require no qualifying work experience. The capability for light work, which includes the ability to do sedentary work, represents the capability for substantial numbers of such jobs. This, in turn, represents substantial vocational scope for younger individuals (age 18-49) even if illiterate or unable to communicate in English.
Table No. 2—Residual Functional Capacity: Maximum Sustained Work Capability Limited to Light Work as a Result of Severe Medically Determinable Impairment(s)
Rule
Age
Education
Previous work experience
Decision
202.01
Advanced age
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
202.02
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.03
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
1
Not disabled.
202.04
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
2
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
202.05
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
2
......do
Not disabled.
202.06
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
2
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Disabled.
202.07
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
2
Not disabled.
202.08
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
2
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.09
Closely approaching advanced age
Illiterate or unable to communicate in English
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
202.10
......do
Limited or less—At least literate and able to communicate in English
......do
Not disabled.
202.11
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.12
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
202.13
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
202.14
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.15
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
202.16
Younger individual
Illiterate or unable to communicate in English
Unskilled or none
Do.
202.17
......do
Limited or less—At least literate and able to communicate in English
......do
Do.
202.18
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.19
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
202.20
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
202.21
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
202.22
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
1
See 202.00(f).
2
See 202.00(c).
203.00
Maximum sustained work capability limited to medium work as a result of severe medically determinable impair- ment(s).
(a) The functional capacity to perform medium work includes the functional capacity to perform sedentary, light, and medium work. Approximately 2,500 separate sedentary, light, and medium occupations can be identified, each occupation representing numerous jobs in the national economy which do not require skills or previous experience and which can be performed after a short demonstration or within 30 days.
(b) The functional capacity to perform medium work represents such substantial work capability at even the unskilled level that a finding of disabled is ordinarily not warranted in cases where a severely impaired individual retains the functional capacity to perform medium work. Even the adversity of advanced age (55 or over) and a work history of unskilled work may be offset by the substantial work capability represented by the functional capacity to perform medium work. However, an individual with a marginal education and long work experience (i.e., 35 years or more) limited to the performance of arduous unskilled labor, who is not working and is no longer able to perform this labor because of a severe impairment(s),
may still be found disabled even though the individual is able to do medium work.
(c) However, the absence of any relevant work experience becomes a more significant adversity for individuals of advanced age (55 and over). Accordingly, this factor, in combination with a limited education or less, militates against making a vocational adjustment to even this substantial range of work and a finding of disabled is appropriate. Further, for individuals closely approaching retirement age (60-64) with a work history of unskilled work and with marginal education or less, a finding of disabled is appropriate.
Table No. 3—Residual Functional Capacity: Maximum Sustained Work Capability Limited to Medium Work as a Result of Severe Medically Determinable Impairment(s)
Rule
Age
Education
Previous work experience
Decision
203.01
Closely approaching retirement age
Marginal or none
Unskilled or none
Disabled.
203.02
......do
Limited or less
None
Do.
203.03
......do
Limited
Unskilled
Not disabled.
203.04
......do
Limited or less
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.05
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.06
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.07
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.08
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.09
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.10
Advanced age
Limited or less
None
Disabled.
203.11
......do
......do
Unskilled
Not disabled.
203.12
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.13
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.14
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.15
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.16
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.17
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.18
Closely approaching advanced age
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.19
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.20
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.21
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.22
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.23
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.24
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.25
Younger individual
Limited or less
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.26
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.27
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.28
......do
High school graduate or more
Unskilled or none
Do.
203.29
......do
High school graduate or more—does not provide for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
203.30
......do
......do
Skilled or semiskilled—skills transferable
Do.
203.31
......do
High school graduate or more—provides for direct entry into skilled work
Skilled or semiskilled—skills not transferable
Do.
204.00
Maximum sustained work capability limited to heavy work (or very heavy work) as a result of severe medically determinable impairment(s).
The residual functional capacity to perform heavy work or very heavy work includes the functional capability for work at the lesser functional levels as well, and represents substantial work capability for jobs in the national economy at all skill and physical demand levels. Individuals who retain the functional capacity to perform heavy work (or very heavy work) ordinarily will not have a severe impairment or will be able to do their past work—either of which would have already provided a basis for a decision of “not disabled”. Environmental restrictions ordinarily would not significantly affect the range of work existing in the national economy for individuals with the physical capability for heavy work (or very heavy work). Thus an impairment which does not preclude heavy work (or very heavy work) would not ordinarily be the primary reason for unemployment, and generally is sufficient for a finding of not disabled, even though age, education, and skill level of prior work experience may be considered adverse.
[56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 60294, Oct. 22, 2003]
Pt. 220, App. 3

# Appendix 3 to Part 220—Railroad Retirement Board Occupational Disability Standards

# 1. Introduction
1.01 The Board uses this appendix to adjudicate the occupational disability claims of employees with medical conditions and job titles covered by the Tables in this appendix. The Tables are divided into “Body Parts”, with each Body Part further divided by job title. Under each job title there is a list of impairments and tests with accompanying test results which establish a finding of “D” (disabled). The use of these Tables is a three-step process. In the first step we determine whether the employee's regular railroad occupation is covered by the Tables; next we establish the existence of an impairment covered by the Tables; finally, we reach a disability determination. If we do not find an employee disabled under these Tables, the employee may still be found disabled using Independent Case Evaluation (ICE), as explained in subpart C of this part.
1.02 The Cancer Tables are treated in a different way than other body systems. Different types of cancer and their treatments have different functional impacts. In the Cancer Tables the impact of the impairment is seen as being significant or not significant. Therefore, these tables contain an “S” (significant) which is equivalent to a “D” rating. A detailed explanation of how to use those tables is in that section. The steps to use the remaining Tables are explained below:

# 2. Confirming the Impairment
2.01 Once we determine that the employee's regular railroad occupation is covered by the Job Titles in the Tables, we must determine the existence of an impairment covered by the Tables. This is done through the use of Confirmatory Tests. These tests can include information from medical records, surgical or operative reports, or specific diagnostic test results. Confirmatory Tests are listed in the initial section regarding each Body Part covered in the Tables. If an impairment cannot be confirmed because of inconsistent medical information, ICE may be required.
2.02 There are two types of Confirmatory Tests as follows.
2.03 “Highly Recommended” Tests—The designation of a confirmatory test as being “highly recommended” means that the test is almost always performed to confirm the existence of the impairment. For many conditions, only one “highly recommended” test finding is suggested to confirm the impairment. However, there may be times when that test is not available or is negative, but other more detailed testing confirms the impairment.
2.04
Example A:
To confirm the condition of pulmonary hypertension, the Tables under Body Part C., Cardiac, designate as “highly recommended”: an electrocardiogram which indicates definite right ventricular hypertrophy. However, the impairment may also be confirmed by insertion of a Swan-Ganz catheter into the pulmonary artery and the pulmonary artery pressure measured directly.
2.05 There may be some conditions for which several “highly recommended” tests are suggested to confirm an impairment. In these circumstances, we will use all “highly
recommended” tests to establish the existence of the impairment.
2.06
Example B:
Under Body Part E., Lumbar Sacral Spine, three highly recommended medical findings are identified for the diagnosis of chronic back pain, not otherwise specified. These findings include:
A. A history of back pain under medical treatment for at least one year, and
B. A history of back pain unresponsive to therapy for at least one year, and
C. A history of back pain with functional limitations for at least one year.
2.07 All three of these criteria must be satisfied to confirm the existence of chronic back pain.
2.08 Sometimes the employee may have undergone detailed testing which is as reliable as one of the “highly recommended” tests listed in the Tables. In cases where an impairment has not been confirmed by one of the designated “highly recommended” tests, the impairment may still be confirmed by “recommended” tests (see below) or by evidence acceptable under section 220.27 of this part.
2.09 Recommended Tests—The designation of a confirmatory test as “recommended” means that the test need not be performed, or be positive, to confirm the impairment. However, a positive test provides significant support for confirming the impairment. If there are no “highly recommended” tests for confirming the impairment, at least one of the “recommended” tests should be positive.
2.10 There are two categories of recommended tests which are described below.
A.
Imaging studies
—These studies can include MRI, CAT scan, myelogram, or plain film x-rays. For conditions where several of these imaging studies are identified as “recommended” tests, at least one of the test results should be positive and meet the confirmatory test criteria. For some conditions, such as degenerative disc condition, there are several equivalent imaging methods to confirm a diagnosis.
B.
Other tests
—This category of tests refers to non-imaging studies.
2.11 If there are no “highly recommended” confirmatory tests designated to confirm an impairment and the “recommended” confirmatory tests only include non-imaging procedures, at least one of these tests should be positive to confirm the impairment. The greater the number of tests that are positive, the greater the confidence that the correct diagnosis has been established.
2.12
Example:
Under Body Part C., Cardiac, the diagnostic confirmatory tests for ventricular ectopy, a cardiac arrhythmia, include the following “recommended” tests:
A. Medical record review, i.e., a review of the claimant's medical records, or
B. Holter monitoring, or
C. Provocative testing producing a definite arrhythmia.
2.13 In this situation, only one of the “recommended” confirmatory tests need be positive to confirm the impairment. However, the more tests that are positive, the stronger the support for the diagnosis.
2.14 In no circumstance will the Board require that an invasive test be performed to confirm an impairment. Several of the Confirmatory Tests which are described in the Tables are invasive and it is not the intention of the Board to suggest that these be performed. The inclusion of invasive tests in the Tables Confirmatory Tests section is intended to help the Board evaluate the significance of findings from such tests that may have already been performed and which are part of the submitted medical record.
2.15 If an employee's impairment(s) cannot be confirmed by use of the confirmatory tests listed in the Tables, it still may be confirmed by medical evidence described in section 220.27 of this part. However, if a claimant's impairment(s) cannot be confirmed through use of the Tables or under section 220.27, and the medical evidence is complete and in concordance, the claimant will be found not disabled.

# 3. Disability Determination
3.01 Once the Board determines that the employee's regular railroad occupation is covered by one of the Job Titles in the Tables and that his or her alleged impairment fits into a Body Part covered by the Tables and can be confirmed, we examine the results of any of the disability tests listed under the impairment. If the results from any of these tests indicate a “D” finding, the employee is found disabled. If none of the test results indicate a “D” finding, then the employee's claim is evaluated using ICE.
3.02
Example:
A trainman has angina as confirmed by the recommended tests under Body Part A: Cardiac—Angina. An echocardiogram shows that he has poor ejection fraction ≤35%. The employee is rated disabled. If none of the results of the listed disability tests match the results required for a “D” finding, then the employee's claim is evaluated under ICE.

# Tables
A. Cancer
B. Endocrine
C. Cardiac
D. Respiratory
E. Lumbar Sacral Spine
F. Cervical Spine
G. Shoulder and Elbow
H. Hand and Arm
I. Hip
J. Knee
K. Ankle and Foot

# A. Cancer

# Cancer
Cancer conditions can be viewed as belonging to one of three categories.
Category 1: Significant impact on functional capacity or anticipated life span.
Category 2: Intermediate impact on functional capacity; large individual variability.
Category 3: No significant impact on functional capacity or expected life span.
The factors that are considered in developing these categories include the following:

# Type of Cancer
The functional impact of different malignancies varies tremendously and each malignancy has to be considered on an individual basis.

# Magnitude of Disease
The disability standards are based upon the magnitude or extent of disease. The extent of disease affects both anticipated life span and the functional capacity or work ability of the individual. Localized cancer including cancer “in situ” can frequently be completely cured and not have an impact on functional capacity or life span. In contrast, many cancers that have distant or significant regional spread generally have a poor prognosis. The magnitude or extent of disease is classified into three categories: local, regional and distant.
The criteria which are used to classify a cancer into one of the three categories are based upon the distillation of several staging methods into a single system [Miller, et al. (1992). Cancer Statistics Review, 1973-1989; NIH Publication No. 92-2789].

# Effects of Treatment
Although some types of cancer may be potentially curable with radical surgery and/or radiation therapy, the treatment regimen may result in a significant impairment that could affect functional capacity and ability to work. For example, a person with a laryngeal tumor which had spread regionally could be cured by a complete laryngectomy and radiotherapy. However, this treatment could result in a loss of speech and significantly impair the individual's communicative skills or ability to use certain types of respiratory protective equipment.

# Prognosis
Some cancers may have minimal impact on a person's functional capacity, but have a very poor prognosis with respect to life expectancy. For example, an individual with early stage brain cancer may be minimally impaired, but have a poor prognosis and minimal potential for surviving longer than two years. Five and two year survival data are presented in the Cancer Disability Guideline Table which follows.
The Cancer Disability Guideline Table provides information concerning the probability of survival for five years for local, regional, and distant disease for each type of malignancy. In addition, two-year survival data are also presented for all disease stages. The five-year survival data are based upon data collected from population-based registries in Connecticut, New Mexico, Utah, Hawaii, Atlanta, Detroit, Seattle and the San Francisco and East Bay area between 1983 and 1987 (Miller, 1992). The two-year data are from a cohort study initially diagnosed in 1988.

# Assessment
The malignancies are classified as disabling (Category 1), potentially disabling (Category 2) and non-disabling (Category 3). Category 2 conditions must be evaluated with respect to how the worker's tumor affects the worker's ability to perform the job and an assessment of his life span.
Information concerning the potential impact of the malignancy on a worker's ability to perform a job is identified in the Functional Impact column in the table. All railroad occupations in the Tables are considered together. Functional impacts are classified as significant if the treatment or sequelae from treatment including radiotherapy, chemotherapy and/or surgery is likely to impair the worker from performing the job. If the treatment results in a significant impairment of another organ system, the individual should be evaluated for disability associated with impairment of that body part. For example, a person undergoing an amputation for a bone malignancy would have to be evaluated for an amputation of that body part. For many cancers, it is difficult to make generalizations regarding the level of impairment that will occur after the person has initiated or completed treatment. Nonsignificant impacts include those that are unlikely to have any effect on the individual's work capacity.
Cancer type
2-year
1
5-year
1
Disability status
2
Functional impact
3
Brain:
Local
26
1
S
Regional
27.9
1
S
Distant
23.6
1
S
Female Breast:
Regional
71.1
2
S
Distant
17.8
1
S
Colon:
Local
91
2
S
Regional
60.1
2
S
Distant
6
1
S
Rectal:
Local
84.5
2
S
Regional
50.7
2
S
Distant
5.3
1
S
Esophagus:
Local
18.5
1
S
Regional
5.2
1
S
Distant
1.8
1
S
Hodgkin's Disease:
4
Stage 1
90-95
3
S
Stage 2
86
2
S
Stage 3
80
2
S
Stage 4
80
1
S
Kidney/Renal Pelvis:
Local
85.4
3
S
Regional
56.3
2
S
Distant
9
1
S
Larynx:
Local
84.2
2
S
Regional
52.5
2
S
Distant
24
1
S
Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia:
All
51.1
2
S
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia:
All
66.2
2
S
Acute Myelogenous Leukemia:
All
9.7
1
S
Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia:
All
21.7
1
S
Liver/Intrahepatic Bile Duct:
Local
15.1
1
S
Regional
5.8
1
S
Distant
1.9
1
S
Lung/Bronchus:
5
Local
45.6
2
S
Regional
13.1
1
S
Distant
1.3
1
S
Melanomas of Skin:
Regional
53.6
2
S
Distant
12.8
1
S
Oral Cavity/Pharyngeal:
Local
76.2
2
S
Regional
40.9
2
S
Distant
18.7
1
S
Pancreas:
Local
6.1
1
S
Regional
3.7
1
S
Distant
1.4
1
S
Prostate:
Local
91
3
S
Regional
80.4
2
S
Distant
28
1
S
Stomach:
Local
55.4
1
S
Regional
17.3
1
S
Distant
2.1
1
S
Testicular:
Distant
65.5
1
S
Thyroid:
Regional
93.1
3
S
Distant
47.2
1
S
Bladder:
Regional
46
2
S
Distant
9.1
1
S
1
Source of 2 and 5 year survival data: Miller BA et al. Cancer Statistics Review 1973-1989. NIH Publication No. 92-2789.
2
Disability Status:
Category 1: Significant impact on functional capacity or life span.
Category 2: Intermediate impact.
Category 3: No significant impact on functional capacity or life span.
3
Functional Impacts:
(S) Significant—significant potential for the effects of treatment (radiotheraphy, chemotherapy. surgery) to affect functional capacity.
4
Hodgkin's disease data presented for each stage derived from American Cancer Society. American Cancer Society Textbook reference for unstaged cancer is derived from Cancer Statistics Review (See 3). In addition to other data, see: American Cancer Society Textbook of Clinical Oncology. Eds: Holleb AI, Fink DJ, Murphy GP, Atlanta: American Cancer Society, Inc. 1991.)
5
Small cell carcinoma is classified as a 1.
B. Endocrine
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: ENDOCRINE
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Diabetes, requiring insulin (IDDM):
Medical record review
Confirmation of condition and need for insulin use
Highly recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: ENDOCRINE
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER
Diabetes, requiring insulin (IDDM):
Medical record review
Confirmation of condition and need for insulin use
D
C. Cardiac
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: CARDIAC
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Angina:
Medical record review
Confirmed history of ischemia including copies of electrocardiogram
Recommended.
Stress test
Definite ischemia on exercise test
Recommended.
Thallium study
Definite ischemia with exercise
Recommended.
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Proven and significant
Recommended.
Echocardiogram
Significant valve disease
Recommended.
Coronary artery disease:
Medical record review
Documented ischemia with electrocardiogram confirmation
Recommended.
Medical record review
Documented myocardial infarction
Recommended.
Stress test
Positive
Recommended.
Thallium study
Definite ischemia with exercise
Recommended.
Angiography
Definite occlusion (
60%) of one vessel
Recommended.
Cardiomyopathy:
Echocardiogram
Proven ejection fraction ≤35%
Recommended.
Catheterization
Poor global function and not coronary artery disease
Recommended.
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Documentation of hypertension for one year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
Definite diagnosis by cardiologist or internist
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
Confirmation of medication use
Highly recommended.
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Medical record review
Proven episode with electrocardiogram confirmation
Recommended.
Electrocardiogram
Documentation of arrhythmia
Recommended.
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Significant valve disease
Recommended.
Echocardiogram
Significant valve disease
Recommended.
Pericardial disease:
Medical record review
Confirmed by cardiologist or internist
Highly recommended.
Pulmonary hypertension:
Physical examination
Increased pulmonic sound or pulmonary ejection murmur by cardiologist or internist
Recommended.
Electrocardiogram
Definite right ventricular hypertension
Highly recommended.
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Definite episode within one year
Recommended.
Holter monitoring
Definite arrhythmia
Recommended.
Provocative testing
Positive response
Recommended.
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Definite episode within one year
Recommended.
Holter monitoring
Definite arrhythmia
Recommended.
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Documented
Highly recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤7 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by a Cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤ 7 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤ 7 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥5 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by a Cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥10 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: DISPATCHER
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥10 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by a Cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤ 5 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤ 5 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥10 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤7 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infractions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤7 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤7 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥5 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catherization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤7 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by a cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤7 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤7 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥5 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤7 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by a cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥10 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by a Cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥10 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: SALES REPRESENTATIVE
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by a cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Hypertension:
Medical record review
Diastolic
120 and systolic
160, 50% of the time and evidence of end organ damage (blood creatinine
2; urinary protein
1/2
gm; or EKG evidence of ischemia)
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥10 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
BODY PART: CARDIAC
JOB TITLE: GENERAL OFFICE CLERK
Angina:
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test: significant ST changes
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Aortic valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm HG
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Coronary artery disease:
Myocardial infarction
Multiple infarctions
D
Echocardiogram
Confirmed ventricular aneurysm
D
Cardiac catheterization
Aortic gradient 25-50 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Medical record review
Unstable as diagnosed by a Cardiologist
D
Stress test
Documented hypotensive response
D
Stress test
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Isotope, e.g., thallium study
Definite ischemia ≤5 METS
D
Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Arrhythmia: heart block:
Holter
Documented asystole length
1.5-2 seconds
D
Medical record review
Documented syncope with proven arrhythmia
D
Mitral valve disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral valve gradient ≥10 mm Hg
D
Cardiac catheterization
Mitral regurgitation severe
D
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Stress test
Peak exercise ≤5 METS
D
Pericardial disease:
Cardiac catheterization
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Echocardiogram
Poor ejection fraction ≤35%
D
Ventricular ectopy:
Medical record review
Documented life threatening arrhythmia
D
Holter
Uncontrolled ventricular rhythm
D
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Arrhythmia: supraventricular tachycardia:
Medical record review
Documented related syncope
D
Post heart transplant:
Medical record review
Post heart transplant
D
D. Respiratory
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: RESPIRATORY
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Asthma:
Spirometry
FEV1/FVC ratio diminished
Recommended.
Spirometry
15% change with administration of bronchodilator
Recommended.
Methacholine challenge test
Positive: FEV1 decrease
20% at (PC ≤8 mg/ml)
Recommended
Bronchiectasis:
Medical record review
Chronic cough and sputum
Recommended.
Chest X-ray
Bronchiectasis demonstrated
Recommended.
Chest CAT scan
Bronchiectasis demonstrated
Recommended.
Chronic bronchitis:
Medical record review
Frequent cough—2 years duration
Highly recommended.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease:
Spirometry
FEV1/FVC ratio below 65% when stable
Highly recommended.
Spirometry
FEV1 below 75% of predicted when stable
Highly recommended.
Cor pulmonale:
Electrocardiogram
Definite right ventricular hypertrophy
Recommended.
Echocardiogram
Definite right ventricular hypertrophy
Recommended.
Pulmonary fibrosis:
Lung biopsy
Diffuse fibrosis
Recommended.
Chest CAT scan
More than minimal fibrosis
Recommended.
Lung resection:
Medical record review
At least one lobe resected
Highly recommended.
Pneumothorax:
Medical record review
Required hospitalization with chest tube drainage
Highly recommended.
Restrictive lung disease:
Chest X-ray
Restrictive lung changes
Recommended.
DLCO
Abnormal
Highly recommended.
Chest CAT scan
Restrictive lung changes
Recommended.
Spirometry
FVC
75% predicted
Highly recommended.
Silicosis:
Medical record review
Occupational exposure for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Tuberculosis:
Chest X-ray
Evidence of changes consistent with tuberculosis infection
Recommended.
Culture
Positive
Recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: RESPIRATORY
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Asthma:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
Bronchiectasis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic bronchitis:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD):
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Cor pulmonale:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Pulmonary fibrosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Lung resection:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Restrictive lung disease:
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Electrocardiogram
efinite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Silicosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg If stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
BODY PART: RESPIRATORY
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Asthma:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Bronchiectasis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic bronchitis:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD):
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Cor pulmonale:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Pulmonary fibrosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Lung resection:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Restrictive lung disease:
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Silicosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
BODY PART: RESPIRATORY
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Asthma:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Bronchiectasis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic bronchitis:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD):
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Cor pulmonale:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Pulmonary fibrosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Lung resection:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Restrictive lung disease:
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Silicosis:
Resting AGB
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
BODY PART: RESPIRATORY
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Asthma:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Bronchiectasis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic bronchitis:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD):
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Cor pulmonale:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Pulmonary fibrosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Lung resection:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Restrictive lung disease:
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Silicosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
BODY PART: RESPIRATORY
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Asthma:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Bronchiectasis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic bronchitis:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Resting AGB
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD):
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Cor pulmonale:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Pulmonary fibrosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Lung resection:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Restrictive lung disease:
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Silicosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
BODY PART: RESPIRATORY
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Asthma:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Bronchiectasis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic bronchitis:
Spirometry
Repeated spirometry FEV1
40% over a 12 month period
D
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD):
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Cor pulmonale:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Pulmonary fibrosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Lung resection:
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Restrictive lung disease:
DLCO
45% predicted
D
Pulmonary exercise test or exercise ABG
PO2 drop
5 torr at maximum exercise
D
Pulmonary exercise test
Maximum VO2
15 ml/kg
D
Spirometry
FVC
50% predicted
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
Silicosis:
Resting ABG
PCO2 arterial
50 mm Hg if stable
D
Electrocardiogram
Definite positive right ventricular hypertrophy
D
E. Lumbar Sacral Spine
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: LS SPINE
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Ankylosing spondylitis:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Sacroilitis
Highly recommended.
HLA B27 (blood test)
Positive HLA B27 (90% case)
Recommended.
Backache, unspecified:
Medical record review
History of back pain under medical treatment for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
History of back pain unresponsive to therapy for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
History of back pain with functional limitations for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Chronic back pain, not otherwise specified:
Medical record review
History of back pain under medical treatment for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
History of back pain unresponsive to therapy for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
History of back pain with functional limitations for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Cauda equina syndrome with bowel or bladder dysfunction:
Magnetic resonance imaging
Neural impingement of spinal nerves below L1
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Neural impingement of spinal nerves below L1
Recommended.
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
Recommended.
Rectal examination
Diminished rectal sphincter tone
Recommended.
Myelogram
Neural impingement of spinal nerves below L1
Recommended.
Degeneration of lumbar disc:
X-ray lumbar sacral spine
Significant degenerative disc changes
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Significant degenerative disc changes
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant degenerative disc changes
Recommended.
Myelogram
Significant degenerative disc changes
Recommended.
Displacement of lumbar disc:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Significant degenerative disc changes
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Significant degenerative disc changes
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant degenerative disc changes
Recommended.
Myelogram
Significant degenerative disc changes
Recommended.
Fracture: vertebral body:
Magnetic resonance imaging
Fracture vertebral body
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Fracture vertebral body
Recommended.
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Fracture vertebral body
ommended.
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
Magnetic resonance imaging
Fracture posterior spinal element with displacement of spinal canal
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Fracture posterior spinal element with displacement of spinal canal
Recommended.
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Fracture posterior spinal element with displacement of spinal canal
Recommended.
Fracture: posterior spinal element with no displacement:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Fracture posterior spinal element
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Fracture posterior spinal element
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Fracture posterior spinal element
Recommended.
Fracture: spinous process:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Spinous process fracture
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Spinous process fracture
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Spinous process fracture
Recommended.
Fracture: Transverse process:
Lumbar sacral spine
Transverse process fracture
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Transverse process fracture
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Transverse process fracture
Recommended.
Intervertebral disc disorder:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Myelogram
Significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Lumbago:
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back pain under medical treatment for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back pain unresponsive to therapy for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back pain with functional limitations for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Lumbosacral neuritis:
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of neural compression
Recommended.
Electromyography
Definite denervation
Recommended.
Nerve conduction velocity
Definite slowing
Recommended.
Physical examination—atrophy
Atrophy in affected limb with 2 cm difference between limbs
Recommended.
Physical examination: straight leg raise
Positive straight leg raise
Recommended.
Sensory examination
Loss of sensation in affected dermatomes
Recommended.
Medical history
History of radicular pain
Highly recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of neural compression
Recommended.
Lumbar spinal stenosis:
Computerized tomography
Significant narrowing: spinal cord canal or intervertebral foramen
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant narrowing: spinal cord canal or intervertebral foramen
Recommended.
Myelogram
Significant narrowing: spinal cord canal or intervertebral foramen
Recommended.
Mechanical complication of internal orthopedic device:
Medical record review
Documentation of failure of implant following surgical procedure
Highly recommended.
Osteomalacia:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Evidence of significant osteomalacia
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of significant osteomalacia
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of significant osteomalacia
Recommended.
Osteomyelitis, chronic-lumbar:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Evidence of chronic infection
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of chronic infection
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of chronic infection
Recommended.
Osteoporosis:
Computerized tomography
Significant bone density loss
Recommended.
Dual photon absorptiometry
Significant bone density loss
Recommended.
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Significant bone density loss
Recommended.
Post laminectomy syndrome with radiculopathy:
Medical record review: lumbar
Documented surgical history of laminectomy
Highly recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of laminectomy
Recommended.
Electromyography
Definite denervation
Recommended.
Nerve conduction velocity
Definite slowing
Recommended.
Physical examination—atrophy
Atrophy in affected limb with 2 cm difference between limbs
Recommended.
Physical examination: straight leg raise
Positive straight leg raise
Recommended.
Sensory examination
Loss of sensation in affected dermatomes
Recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
History of radicular pain
Highly recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of laminectomy
Recommended.
Myelogram
Evidence of laminectomy
Recommended.
Radiculopathy:
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of neural compression
Recommended.
Electromyography
Definite denervation
Recommended.
Nerve conduction velocity
Definite slowing
Recommended.
Physical examination—atrophy
Atrophy in affected limb with 2 cm difference between limbs
Recommended.
Physical examination: straight leg raise
Positive straight leg raise
Recommended.
Sensory examination
Loss of sensation in affected dermatomes
Recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
History of radicular pain
Highly recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of neural compression
Recommended.
Myelogram
Evidence of neural compression
Recommended.
Sciatica:
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of neural compression
Recommended.
Electromyography
Definite denervation
Recommended.
Nerve conduction velocity
Definite slowing
Recommended.
Physical examination—atrophy
Atrophy in affected limb with 2 cm difference between limbs
Recommended.
Physical examination: straight leg raise
Positive straight leg raise
Recommended.
Sensory examination
Loss of sensation in affected dermatomes
Recommended.
Medical history
History of radicular pain
Highly recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of neural compression
Recommended.
Myelogram
Evidence of neural compression
Recommended.
Strains and sprains, unspecified:
Medical record review
History of back pain under medical treatment for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
History of back pain unresponsive to therapy for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
History of back pain with functional limitations for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review
Documented history of strain and/or sprain
Highly recommended.
Spondylolisthesis grade 1:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
1-25% slippage
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
1-25% slippage
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
1-25% slippage
Recommended.
Spondylolisthesis grade 2:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
26-50% slippage
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
26-50% slippage
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
26-50% slippage
Recommended.
Spondylolisthesis grade 3:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
51-75% slippage
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
51-75% slippage
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
51-75% slippage
Recommended.
Spondylolisthesis grade 4:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Complete slippage
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Complete slippage
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Complete slippage
Recommended.
Spondylolisthesis-acquired:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Slippage
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Slippage
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Slippage
Recommended.
Spondylolsis:
X-ray-lumbar sacral spine
Defect—pars interarticularis
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Defect—pars interarticularis
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Defect—pars interarticularis
Recommended.
Sprains and strains, sacral:
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back pain under medical treatment for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back pain unresponsive to therapy for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back with functional limitations for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
Documented history of strain and/or sprain
Highly recommended.
Sprains and strains, sacroiliac:
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back pain under medical treatment for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back pain unresponsive to therapy for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
History of back pain with functional limitations for at least 1 year
Highly recommended.
Medical record review: lumbar
Documented history of strain and/or sprain
Highly recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: LS SPINE
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Ankylosing spondylitis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Backache, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Chronic back pain, not otherwise specified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Cauda equina syndrome with bowel or bladder dysfunction:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Degeneration of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Displacement of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: vertebral body:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with no displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: spinous process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture transverse process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Intervertebral disc disorder:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Lumbago:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Lumbosacral neuritis:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Lumbar spinal stenosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Myelogram
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Mechanical complication of internal orthopedic device:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Osteomalacia:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic-lumbar:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Medical record review
Frequent flare-ups with objective findings
D
Osteoporosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Post laminectomy syndrome with radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Sciatica:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Strains and sprains, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 1:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 2:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 3:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 4:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis—acquired:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolysis:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Sprains and strains, sacral:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Sprains and strains, sacroiliac:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Vertebral body compression fracture:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
BODY PART: LS SPINE
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER
Cauda equina syndrome with bowel or bladder dysfunction:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
BODY PART: LS SPINE
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Ankylosing spondylitis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Backache, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Chronic back pain, not otherwise specified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Cauda equina syndrome with bowel or bladder dysfunction:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myeolgram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Degeneration of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Displacement of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: vertebral body:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with no displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: spinous process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture transverse process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Intervertebral disc disorder:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Lumbago:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Lumbosacral neuritis:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Lumbar spinal stenosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Myelogram
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Mechanical complication of internal orthopedic device:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Osteomalacia:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic-lumbar:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Medical record review
Frequent flare-ups with objective findings
D
Osteoporosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Post laminectomy syndrome with radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Sciatica:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Strains and sprains, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 1:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 2:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 3:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminshed by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 4:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis-acquired:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolysis:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Sprains and strains, sacral:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminshed by 50%
D
Sprains and strains, sacroiliac:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Vertebral body compression fracture:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminshed by 50%
D
BODY PART: LS SPINE
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Ankylosing spondylitis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Backache, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Chronic back pain, not otherwise specified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Cauda equina syndrome with bowel or bladder dysfunction:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Degeneration of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Displacement of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: vertebral body:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with no displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: spinous process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture transverse process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Intervertebral disc disorder:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Lumbago:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Lumbosacral neuritis:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Lumbar spinal stenosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Myelogram
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Mechanical complication of internal orthopedic device:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Osteomalacia:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic-lumbar:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Medical record review
Frequent flare-ups with objective findings
D
Osteoporosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Post laminectomy syndrome with radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifing capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Sciatica:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Strains and sprains, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 1:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 2:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 3:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 4:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis-acquired:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolysis:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Sprains and strains, sacral:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Sprains and strains, sacroiliac:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Vertebral body compression fracture:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
BODY PART: LS SPINE
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Ankylosing spondylitis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Backache, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Chronic back pain, not otherwise specified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifing capacity diminished by 50%
D
Cauda equina syndrome with bowel or bladder dysfunction:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Degeneration of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Displacement of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: vertebral body:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with no displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: spinous process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture transverse process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Intervertebral disc disorder:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Lumbago:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Lumbosacral neuritis:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Lumbar spinal stenosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Myelogram
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Physcial examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Mechanical complication of internal orthopedic device:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Osteomalacia:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic-lumbar:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Medical record review
Frequent flare-ups with objective findings
D
Osteoporosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Post laminectomy syndrome with radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Sciatica:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Strains and sprains, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 1:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 2:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 3:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 4:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis-acquired:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolysis:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Sprains and strains, sacral:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Sprains and strains, sacroiliac:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Vetebral body compression fracture:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
BODY PART: LS SPINE
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Ankylosing spondylitis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Backache, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Chronic back pain, not otherwise specified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Cauda equina syndrome with bowel or bladder dysfunction:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Degeneration of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Displacement of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: vertebral body:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with no displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: spinous process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture transverse process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Intervertebral disc disorder:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Lumbago:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Lumbosacral neuritis:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Lumbar spinal stenosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Myelogram
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Mechanical complication of internal orthopedic device:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Osteomalacia:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic-lumbar:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Medical record review
Frequent flare-ups with objective findings
D
Osteoporosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Post laminectomy syndrome with radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Sciatica:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Strains and sprains, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade I:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 2:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 3:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 4:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis-acquired:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolysis:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Sprains and strains, sacral:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Sprains and strains, sacroiliac:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Vertebral body compression fracture:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
BODY PART: LS SPINE
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Ankylosing spondylitis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Backache, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Chronic back pain, not otherwise specified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Cauda equina syndrome with bowel or bladder dysfunction:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement, nerves
L1
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Degeneration of lumbar disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Displacement of lumber disc:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: vertebral body:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: posterior spinal element with no displacement:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture: spinous process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Fracture transverse process:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Intervertebral disc disorder:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Lumbago:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Lumbosacral neuritis:
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Physical examination
Lower extremity weakness
D
Lumbar spinal stenosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Myelogram
Significant narrowing of the spinal canal
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Mechanical complication of internal orthopedic device:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Osteomalacia:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic-lumbar:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Medical record review
Frequent flare-ups with objective findings
D
Osteoporosis:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Post laminectomy syndrome with radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Radiculopathy:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Sciatica:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Computerized tomography
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Myelogram
Disc extrusion with neural impingement
D
Physical examination
Significant lower extremity weakness
D
Strains and sprains, unspecified:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 1:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 2:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 3:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Spondylolisthesis grade 4:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolisthesis-acquired:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Spondylolysis:
X-ray flexion/extension
Segmental instability
D
Sprains and strains, sacral:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Sprains and strains, sacroiliac:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
Vertebral body compression fracture:
Muscle strength assessment
Lifting capacity diminished by 50%
D
F. Cervical Spine
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: CE SPINE
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Physical examination: cervical
Evidence of myelopathy
Highly recommended.
Myelogram
Evidence of neurogenic compression
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Evidence of neurogenic compression
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of neurogenic compression
Recommended.
Chronic herniated disc:
X-ray: cervical spine
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Myelogram
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Cervical spondylolysis:
X-ray: cervical spine
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Cervical intervertebral disc degeneration:
X-ray: cervical spine
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Myelogram
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of significant disc degeneration
Recommended.
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
X-ray: cervical spine
Fractured posterior element with canal displacement
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Fractured posterior element with canal displacement
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Fractured posterior element with canal displacement
Recommended.
Fracture: transverse, spinous or posterior process:
X-ray: cervical spine
Fracture of relevant part
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Fracture of relevant part
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Fracture of relevant part
Recommended.
Osteoarthritis, cervical:
X-ray: cervical spine
Evidence of extensive disc degeneration
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Evidence of extensive disc degeneration
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of extensive disc degeneration
Recommended.
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Medical records: cervical
Confirmed surgical history
Highly recommended.
Medical records: cervical
Continued pain post-surgery
Highly recommended.
Radiculopathy:
Medical records: cervical
History of radicular pain
Highly recommended.
Physical examination: arm
Loss of reflexes in affected dermatomes
Recommended.
Physical examination: arm
Evidence of atrophy
2 cm
Recommended.
Electromyography
Definite denervation in muscle of affected nerve root
Recommended.
Myelogram
Evidence of neurogenic compression
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Compression of spinal nerves
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Compression of spinal nerves
Recommended.
Rheumatoid arthritis, cervical:
Rheumatoid factor (blood test)
Titer of rheumatoid factor
Recommended.
X-ray: cervical spine
Rheumatoid changes of spine
Highly recommended.
Medical records review: cervical
Confirmation by rheumatologist or internist
Highly recommended.
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Physical examination: cervical
Evidence of myelopathy
Highly recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Evidence of neurogenic compression
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of neurogenic compression
Recommended.
Myelogram
Evidence of neurogenic compression
Recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Chronic herniated disc:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical spondylolysis:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical intervertebral disc degeneration:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical radiculopathy:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Chronic herniated disc:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical spondylolysis:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical intervertebral disc degeneration:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical radiculopathy:
Physical examination:
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: DISPATCHER
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Chronic herniated disc:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical spondylolysis:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical intervertebral disc degeneration:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical radiculopathy:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
BODY PART; CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Chronic herniated disc:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical spondylolysis:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical intervertebral disc degeneration:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical radiculopathy:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Chronic herniated disc:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical spondyloysis:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical intervertebral disc degeneration:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical radiculopathy:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Chronic herniated disc:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical spondylolysis:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical intervertebral disc degeneration:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical radiculopathy:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Chronic herniated disc:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical spondylolysis:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical intervertebral disc degeneration:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Fracture: posterior element with spinal canal displacement:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Post laminectomy syndrome:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Cervical radiculopathy:
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Computerized axial tomography
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Myelogram
Significant spinal cord pressure
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Physical examination
Multi-level neurologic compromise
D
Physical examination: lower limb
Lower extremity weakness or significant spasticity
D
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: SALES REPRESENTATIVE
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
BODY PART: CE SPINE
JOB TITLE: GENERAL OFFICE CLERK
Cervical disc disease with myelopathy:
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
Spondylogenic compression of spinal cord:
Cystometrogram
Impaired bladder function
D
Physical examination: rectal
Impairment of sphincter tone
D
G. Shoulder and Elbow
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements.
BODY PART: SHOULDER AND ELBOW
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Arthritis, acromioclavicular:
X-ray: shoulder
Significant degenerative changes of joint
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Significant degenerative changes of joint
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant degenerative changes of joint
Recommended.
Arthritis, glenohumeral:
X-ray: shoulder
Significant degenerative changes of joint
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Significant degenerative changes of joint
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Significant degenerative changes of joint
Recommended.
Rotator cuff tear:
Computerized tomography
Tear of rotator cuff
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Tear of rotator cuff
Recommended.
Medical diagnosis leading to a permanent functional limitation of the elbow:
Medical record review
Condition with permanent functional limitation
Highly recommended.
X-ray: elbow
Imaging confirmation of functional diagnosis
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Imaging confirmation of functional diagnosis
Recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: SHOULDER AND ELBOW
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Arthritis, acromioclavicular:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Arthritis, glenohumeral:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Rotator cuff tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Permanent functional limitation, elbow:
Physical examination
40 degrees deviation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion limit to 60 degrees
D
BODY PART: SHOULDER AND ELBOW
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER
Arthritis, acromioclavicular:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Arthritis, glenohumeral:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Rotator cuff tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of moiton
40 degrees abduction
D
Permanent functional limitation, elbow:
Physical examination
40 degrees deviation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion limit to 60 degrees
D
BODY PART: SHOULDER AND ELBOW
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Arthritis, acromioclavicular:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Arthritis, glenohumeral:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Rotator cuff tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Permanent functional limitation, elbow:
Physical examination
40 degrees deviation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion limit to 60 degrees
D
BODY PART: SHOULDER AND ELBOW
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Arthritis, acromioclavicular:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Arthritis, glenohumeral:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Rotator cuff tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Permanent functional limitation, elbow:
Physical examination
40 degrees deviation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion limit to 60 degrees
D
BODY PART: SHOULDER AND ELBOW
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Arthritis, acromioclavicular:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Arthritis, glenohumeral:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Rotator cuff tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Permanent functional limitation, elbow:
Physical examination
40 degrees deviation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion limit to 60 degrees
D
BODY PART: SHOULDER AND ELBOW
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Arthritis, acromioclavicular:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Arthritis, glenohumeral:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Rotator cuff tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Permanent functional limitation, elbow:
Physical examination
40 degrees deviation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion limit to 60 degrees
D
BODY PART: SHOULDER AND ELBOW
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Arthritis, acromioclavicular:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Arthritis, glenohumeral:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Rotator cuff tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
40 degrees abduction
D
Permanent functional limitation, elbow:
Physical examination
40 degrees deviation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion limit to 60 degrees
D
H. Hand and Arm
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Carpal tunnel syndrome:
Medical record review
Pain, paresthesia and weakness in distribution median nerve
Highly recommended.
Nerve conduction testing
Definite median nerve conduction slowing at wrist
Highly recommended.
Electromyography
Denervation in severe cases
Recommended.
Fracture: wrist:
X-ray: wrist
Evidence of fracture
Highly recommended.
Hand: permanent functional limitation:
Medical record review
Documentation of medical condition for permanent limitation
Highly recommended.
Physical examination
Definite reproducible evidence of limitation
Highly recommended.
Imaging study (e.g. X-ray, CAT, MRI)
Positive confirmation of underlying condition
Highly recommended.
Rheumatoid arthritis: hand:
Rheumatoid factor
Titer of rheumatoid factor
Recommended.
Medical record review
History of objective findings including serological studies
Highly recommended.
X-ray: hand
Characteristic rheumatoid changes
Highly recommended.
Tenosynovitis:
Medical record review
History of chronic tenosynovitis and objective findings
Highly recommended.
Physical examination
Definite evidence of tenosynovitis
Highly recommended.
Thumb: Permanent functional limitation:
Medical record review
Documentation of medical condition for permanent limitation
Highly recommended.
Physical examination
Definite reproducible evidence of limitation
Highly recommended.
Imaging study (X-ray, CAT, MRI)
Positive confirmation of underlying condition
Highly recommended.
Wrist: Permanent functional limitation:
Medical record review
Documentation of medical condition for permanent limitation
Highly recommended.
Physical examination
Definite reproducible evidence of limitation
Highly recommended.
Imaging study (e.g. X-ray, CAT, MRI)
Positive confirmation of underlying condition
Highly recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE ENGINEER
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension-limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion-limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: DISPATCHER
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb:
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP of PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: SALES REPRESENTATIVE
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degrees extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degrees flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
BODY PART: HAND AND ARM
JOB TITLE: GENERAL OFFICE CLERK
Fracture, wrist:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
Rheumatoid arthritis hand:
Physical examination
Significant deformity
D
Medical record review
Significant flare-ups, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Medical record review
Extensive medication use, under treatment with rheumatologist
D
Thumb: permanent functional limitation:
Adduction of thumb
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
20 degree extension
D
Ankylosis: degree from neutral
40 degree flexion
D
Loss of extension or flexion
MCP or PIP: maximum flexion
40 degrees
D
Opposition
Loss ≤4 cm
D
Wrist: permanent functional limitation:
Physical examination—range of motion
Extension—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion—limit to 30 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis:
20 degrees from neutral
D
I. Hip
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: HIP
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Ankylosis, hip:
X-ray: hip
Extreme joint destruction
Highly Recommended.
Physical examination—range of motion
No mobility
Highly Recommended.
Osteoarthritis, hip:
X-ray: hip
4 mm joint space, or other positive evidence
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
4 mm joint space, or other positive evidence
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
4 mm joint space, or other positive evidence
Recommended.
Osteomyelitis, hip:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of chronic infection
Recommended.
Computerized axial tomography
Evidence of chronic infection
Recommended.
Paget's disease:
X-ray: hip
Osteolytic or blastic lesions
Highly Recommended.
Alkaline phosphatase
Increased up to 50 times
Highly Recommended.
Hip replacement surgery:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of artificial hip
Recommended.
Medical record review
Documentation of prior hip replacement
Recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: HIP
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Ankylosis, hip:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis 5 degrees or
flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis internal rotation
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis external rotation
10 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in abduction
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in adduction
5 degrees
D
Osteoarthritis, hip:
X-ray: hip
0 mm cartilage interval
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic hip:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Medical record review
Documented occurrence of recurring infections with treatment
D
Paget's disease:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Hip replacement surgery:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of artificial hip joint
D
Medical record review
Documentation of prior hip replacement
D
BODY PART: HIP
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER
Ankylosis, hip:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis 5 degrees or
flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis internal rotation
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis external rotation
10 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in abduction
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in adduction
5 degrees
D
Osteoarthritis, hip:
X-ray: hip
0 mm cartilage interval
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic hip:
X-ray: hip
Signficant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Medical record review
Documented occurrence of recurring infections with treatment
D
Paget's disease:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Hip replacement surgery:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of artificial hip joint
D
Medical record review
Documentation of prior hip replacement
D
BODY PART: HIP
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Ankylosis, hip:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis 5 degrees or
flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis internal rotation
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis external rotation
10 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in abduction
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in adduction
5 degrees
D
Osteoarthritis, hip:
X-ray: hip
0 mm cartilage interval
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic hip:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Medical record review
Documented occurrence of recurring infections with treatment
D
Paget's disease:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Hip replacement surgery:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of artificial hip joint
D
Medical record review
Documentation of prior hip replacement
D
BODY PART: HIP
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Ankylosis, hip:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis 5 degrees or
flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis internal rotation
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis external rotation
10 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in abduction
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in adduction
5 degrees
D
Osteoarthritis, hip:
X-ray: hip
0 mm cartilage interval
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic hip:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Medical record review
Documented occurrence of recurring infections with treatment
D
Paget's disease:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Hip replacement surgery:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of artificial hip joint
D
Medical record review
Documentation of prior hip replacement
D
BODY PART: HIP
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Ankylosis, hip:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis 5 degrees or
flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis internal rotation
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis external rotation
10 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in abduction
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in adduction
5 degrees
D
Osteoarthritis, hip:
X-ray: hip
0 mm cartilage interval
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic hip:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Medical record review
Documented occurrence of recurring infections with treatment
D
Paget's disease:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Hip replacement surgery:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of artificial hip joint
D
Medical record review
Documentation of prior hip replacement
D
BODY PART: HIP
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Ankylosis, hip:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis 5 degrees or
flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis internal rotation
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis external rotation
10 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in abduction
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in adduction
5 degrees
D
Osteoarthritis, hip:
X-ray: hip
0 mm cartilage interval
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic hip:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Medical record review
Documented occurrence of recurring infections with treatment
D
Paget's disease:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abudction
D
Hip replacement surgery:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of artificial hip joint
D
Medical record review
Documentation of prior hip replacement
D
BODY PART: HIP
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Ankylosis, hip:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis 5 degrees of
flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis internal rotation
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis external rotation
10 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in abduction
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in adduction
5 degrees
D
Osteoarthritis, hip:
X-ray: hip
0 mm cartilage interval
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic hip:
X-ray: hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Medical record review
Documented occurrence of recurring infections with treatment
D
Paget's disease:
X-ray; hip
Significant joint destruction
D
Physical examination—range of motion
30 degrees flexion contracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
50 degrees flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
5 degrees abduction
D
Hip replacement surgery:
X-ray: hip
Evidence of artificial hip joint
D
Medical record review
Documentation of prior hip replacement
D
J. Knee
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: KNEE
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Arthritis: knee:
X-ray: knee
Evidence of significant degenerative changes
Recommended.
Collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination: knee
Evidence of ligamentous laxity
Highly Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of ligamentous tear
Recommended.
Cruciate and collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Magnetic resonance imaging
Tear of both ligaments
Recommended.
Physical examination
Evidence of ligamentous laxity
Highly Recommended.
Medical record review
Documentation of tear by arthroscopy
Recommended.
Cruciate ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination: knee
Evidence of ligamentous laxity
Highly Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of cruciate tear
Recommended.
Medical record review
Documentation of tear by arthroscopy
Recommended.
Intercondylar fracture:
X-ray: knee
Evidence of fracture
Highly Recommended.
Osteomyelitis: knee:
Medical record review
Documented history of osteomyelitis requiring treatment
Highly Recommended.
X-ray: knee
Evidence of chronic infection
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of chronic infection
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of chronic infection
Recommended.
Osteonecrosis:
X-ray: knee
Necrosis of femoral condyle or tibial plateau
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Necrosis of femoral condyle or tibial plateau
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Necrosis of femoral condyle or tibial plateau
Recommended.
Patellofemoral arthritis:
X-ray: knee
Evidence of arthritis
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of arthritis
Recommended.
Physical examination
Crepitation with movement
Highly Recommended.
Patellar fracture nonunion with displacement:
X-ray: knee
Nonunion and displacement
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Nonunion and displacement
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Nonunion and displacement
Recommended.
Plateau fracture:
X-ray: knee
Evidence of fracture
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of fracture
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of fracture
Recommended.
Meniscectomy—medial or lateral:
Medical record review
History of surgery
Highly Recommended.
Patellectomy:
Physical examination: knee
Absent patella
Highly Recommended.
Patellar—subluxation—recurrent:
Medical record review
History of recurrent subluxation
Highly Recommended.
Supracondylar fracture:
X-ray: knee
Evidence of fracture
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of fracture
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of fracture
Recommended.
Total knee replacement:
X-ray: knee
Presence of replacement knee
Recommended.
Medical record review
Documented surgical history
Recommended.
Tibial shaft fracture:
X-ray: leg
Fracture of shaft
Recommended.
Magnetic resonance imaging
Evidence of fracture
Recommended.
Computerized tomography
Evidence of fracture
Recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: KNEE
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Arthritis knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Meniscectomy, medial or lateral:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate and collateral ligament tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Intercondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
Medical record review
Frequent episodes of infection requiring treatment
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Osteonecrosis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellofemoral arthritis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee: patello femoral joint
0 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellar fracture nonunion with displacement:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
X-ray knee
Nonunion and
3 mm displacement
D
Plateau fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellectomy:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellar, subluxation, recurrent:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Supracondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Tibial shaft fracture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees malalignment
D
BODY PART: KNEE
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER
Arthritis knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Meniscectomy, medial or lateral:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate and collateral ligament tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Intercondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
Medical record review
Frequent episodes of infection requiring treatment
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Osteonecrosis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellofemoral arthritis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee: patello femoral joint
0 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellar fracture nonunion with displacement:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
X-ray knee
Nonunion and
3 mm displacement
D
Plateau fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellectomy:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellar, subluxation, recurrent:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Supracondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Tibial shaft fracture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees malalignment
D
BODY PART: KNEE
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Arthritis knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Meniscectomy, medial or lateral:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate and collateral ligament tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Intercondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
Medical record review
Frequent episodes of infection requiring treatment
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Osteonecrosis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellofemoral arthritis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee: patello femoral joint
0 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellar fracture nonunion with displacement:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
X-ray knee
Nonunion and
3 mm displacement
D
Plateau fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellectomy:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellar, subluxation, recurrent:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Supracondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Tibial shaft fracture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees malalignment
D
BODY PART: KNEE
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Arthritis knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Meniscectomy, medial or lateral:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate and collateral ligament tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Intercondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
Medical record review
Frequent episodes of infection requiring treatment
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Osteonecrosis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellofemoral arthritis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee: patello femoral joint
0 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellar fracture nonunion with displacement:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
X-ray knee
Nonunion and
3 mm displacement
D
Plateau fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellectomy:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellar, subluxation, recurrent:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Supracondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Tibial shaft fracture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees malalignment
D
BODY PART: KNEE
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Arthritis knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Meniscectomy, medial or lateral:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate and collateral ligament tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Intercondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degree angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
Medical record review
Frequent episodes of infection requiring treatment
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Osteonecrosis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellofemoral arthritis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee: patello femoral joint
0 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellar fracture nonunion with displacement:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
X-ray knee
Nonunion and
3 mm displacement
D
Plateau fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellectomy:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellar, subluxation, recurrent:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Supracondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Tibial shaft fracture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees malalignment
D
BODY PART: KNEE
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Arthritis knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Meniscectomy, medial or lateral:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate and collateral ligament tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Intercondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
Medical record review
Frequent episodes of infection requiring treatment
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Osteonecrosis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellofemoral arthritis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellar fracture nonunion with displacement:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
X-ray knee
Nonunion and
3 mm displacement
D
Plateau fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellectomy:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellar, subluxation, recurrent:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Supracondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Tibial shaft fracture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees malalignment
D
BODY PART: KNEE
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Arthritis knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Meniscectomy, medial or lateral:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Collateral ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate and collateral ligament tear:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Cruciate ligament tear with laxity:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Intercondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Osteomyelitis, chronic knee:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
Medical record review
Frequent episodes of infection requiring treatment
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Osteonecrosis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee
0-1 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellofemoral arthritis:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Physical examination
Valgus deformity, 16-20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity, 8-12 degrees
D
X-ray knee: patellofemoral joint
0 mm cartilage interval with degenerative change
D
Patellar fracture nonunion with displacement:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
X-ray knee
Nonunion and
3 mm displacement
D
Plateau fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellectomy:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Patellar, subluxation, recurrent:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Supracondylar fracture:
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees angulation
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Tibial shaft fracture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Range of motion: flexion
60 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Flexion contracture (20 or
degrees)
D
Post fracture angulation
20 degrees malalignment
D
K. Ankle and Foot
Confirmatory test
Minimum result
Requirements
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
CONFIRMATORY TESTS
Ankle fracture:
Medical record review
Documented history of ankle fracture
Recommended.
X-ray: ankle
Ankle fracture
Highly recommended.
Ankylosis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
Extensive joint destruction
Highly recommended.
Physical examination
No mobility
Highly recommended.
Arthritis, subtalar joint:
X-ray: ankle
Evidence of significant arthritis: subtalar joint
Highly recommended.
Arthritis, talonavicular joint:
X-ray: ankle
Significant arthritis: talonavicular joint
Highly recommended.
Achilles tendon rupture:
Medical record review
Documentation of achilles tendon rupture
Highly recommended.
Physical examination
Rupture of achilles tendon
Highly recommended.
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
Significant arthritis
Highly recommended.
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot and ankle
Documentation of fracture
Highly recommended.
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
Medical History
Documented history of condition
Highly recommended.
X-ray: foot
Significant arthritis
Highly recommended.
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: TRAINMAN
Ankle fracture:
X-ray: ankle
Displaced intra-articular fracture
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Ankylosis, ankle:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree or ≤ dorsiflexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree plantar flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in int or ext malrotation
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in varus 10 or more degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in valgus 10 or more degrees
D
Arthritis, subtalar joint (hindfoot):
X-ray: ankle—subtalar joint
Subtalar joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Arthritis, talonavicular joint (hindfoot):
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
X-ray: ankle—talonavicular joint
Talonavicular joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability,
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture, 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability,
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture, 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare-up with treatment
D
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: ENGINEER
Ankle fracture:
X-ray: ankle
Displaced intra-articular fracture
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Ankylosis, ankle:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree or
dorsiflexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree plantar flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in int or ext malrotation
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in varus 10 or more degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in valgus 10 or more degrees
D
Arthritis, subtalar joint (hindfoot):
X-ray: ankle—subtalar joint
Subtalar joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Arthritis, talonavicular joint (hindfoot):
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
X-ray ankle—talonavicular joint
Talonavicular joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare-up with treatment
D
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: DISPATCHER
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare-up with treatment
D
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: CARMAN
Ankle fracture:
X-ray: ankle
Displaced intra-articular fracture
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Ankylosis, ankle:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree or
dorisiflexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree plantar flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylois in int or ext malrotation
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in varus 10 or more degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in valgus 10 or more degrees
D
Arthritis, subtalar joint (hindfoot):
X-ray: ankle—subtalar joint
Subtalar joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Arthritis, talonavicular joint (hindfoot):
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
X-ray: ankle—talonavicular joint
Talonavicular joint space 0 mm
0
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare—up with treatment
D
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: SIGNALMAN
Ankle fracture:
X-ray: ankle
Displaced intra-articular fracture
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Ankylosis, ankle:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree or
dorsiflexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree plantar flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in int or ext malrotation
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in varus 10 or more degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in valgus 10 or more degrees
D
Arthritis, subtalar joint (hindfoot):
X-ray: ankle—subtalar joint
Subtalar joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Arthritis, talonavicular joint (hindfoot):
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
X-ray: ankle—talonavicular joint
Talonavicular joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare-up with treatment
D
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: TRACKMAN
Ankle fracture:
X-ray: ankle
Displaced intra-articular fracture
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability ≤5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Ankylosis, ankle:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree or
dorsiflexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree plantar flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in int or ext malrotation
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in varus 10 or more degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in valgus 10 or more degrees
D
Arthritis, subtalar joint (hindfoot):
X-ray: ankle—subtalar joint
Subtalar joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Arthritis, talonavicular joint (hindfoot):
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
X-ray: angle—talonavicular joint
Talonavicular joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare-up with treatment
D
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: MACHINIST
Ankle fracture:
X-ray: ankle
Displaced intra-articular fracture
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Ankylosis, ankle:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree or
dorsiflexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree plantar flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in int or ext malrotation
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in varus 10 or more degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in valgus 10 or more degrees
D
Arthritis, subtalar joint (hindfoot):
X-ray: ankle—subtalar joint
Subtalar joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Arthritis, talonavicular joint (hindfoot):
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
X-ray: ankle—talonavicular joint
Talonavicular joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity ≤15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare-up with treatment
D
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: SHOP LABORER
Ankle fracture:
X-ray: ankle
Displaced intra-articular fracture
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Ankylosis, ankle:
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree or
dorsiflexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in 20 degree plantar flexion
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in int or ext malrotation
15 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in varus 10 or more degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Ankylosis in valgus 10 or more degrees
D
Arthritis, subtalar joint (hindfoot):
X-ray: ankle—subtalar joint
Subtalar joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Arthritis, talonavicular joint (hindfoot):
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
X-ray: ankle—talonavicular joint
Talonavicular joint space 0 mm
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare-up with treatment
D
Disability test
Test result
Disability classification
BODY PART: ANKLE AND FOOT
JOB TITLE: SALES REPRESENTATIVES
Achilles tendon rupture:
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Arthritis, ankle:
X-ray: ankle
0 mm
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion capability
5 degrees
D
Physical examination—range of motion
Plantar flexion contracture 20 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus deformity
15 degrees
D
Hindfoot fracture:
X-ray: foot
Calcaneal fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
X-ray: foot
Subtalar fracture with Boehler angle
95 degrees
D
Physical examination
Varus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Physical examination
Valgus angulation
20 degrees (hindfoot)
D
Rheumatoid arthritis, foot:
X-ray: foot
Significant degeneration
D
Medical record review
Chronic flare-up with treatment
D

# Job Information Forms
ER13FE98.000
ER13FE98.001
ER13FE98.002
ER13FE98.003
[63 FR 7543, Feb. 13, 1998]
Pt. 221

# PART 221—JURISDICTION DETERMINATIONS
Sec.
221.1
Introduction.
221.2
Railroad Retirement Board jurisdiction.
221.3
Social Security Administration jurisdiction.
221.4
When a jurisdiction decision may be reversed.

# Authority:
Sec. 7(b)(1), Pub. L. 94-547 (45 U.S.C. 231f(b)(1)).

# Source:
47 FR 7656, Feb. 22, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 221.1
Introduction.
This part explains the factors involved in deciding whether the Social
Security Administration or the Railroad Retirement Board will pay benefits to a railroad employee, and his or her eligible family members, both before and after the employee's death. The agency that has jurisdiction over the payment of benefits also has jurisdiction of the applicant's medicare coverage (see part 270 of this chapter). The Board is responsible for making this decision.
§ 221.2
Railroad Retirement Board jurisdiction.
(a)
Life cases.
The Board has jurisdiction to pay monthly benefits to each living employee who has completed at least ten years (120 months) of creditable service under the Railroad Retirement Act, and to his or her eligible spouse. Creditable service is described in part 220 of this chapter.
(b)
Death cases.
The Board has jurisdiction to pay monthly benefits or lump-sum death benefits to eligible survivors of a deceased employee, when the deceased employee has at least ten years (120 months) of service that is creditable under the Railroad Retirement Act and a current connection as described in part 216 of this chapter. Lump-sum death benefits are described in part 234 of this chapter. The Board also has jurisdiction to pay any residual benefits that may become payable at the death of an employee. Residual benefits are described in part 234 of this chapter. The Board retains jurisdiction to pay any residual that may be payable even after jurisdiction has been transferred to the Social Security Administration as described in § 221.3.
§ 221.3
Social Security Administration jurisdiction.
The Board transfers jurisdiction (railroad service and compensation credits earned by the employee which the Social Security Administration considers in determining benefits payable) to the Social Security Administration when—
(a)
Life and death cases.
A living or deceased employee has less than 120 months of service that is creditable under the Railroad Retirement Act; or
(b)
Death cases.
A deceased employee has at least 120 months of service that is creditable under the Railroad Retirement Act (see part 220 of this chapter) but does not have a current connection with the railroad industry as described in part 216 of this chapter.
§ 221.4
When a jurisdiction decision may be reversed.
The Board may reverse a jurisdiction decision whenever evidence is received by the Board indicating that the original decision was incorrect.
Pt. 222

# PART 222—FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
222.1
Introduction.
222.2
Definitions.
222.3
Other regulations related to this part.
222.4
Homicide of employee.

# Subpart B—Relationship as Wife, Husband, or Widow(er)
222.10
When determinations of relationship as wife, husband, widow or widower of employee are made.
222.11
Determination of marriage relationship.
222.12
Ceremonial marriage relationship.
222.13
Common-law marriage relationship.
222.14
Deemed marriage relationship.
222.15
When spouse is living with employee.
222.16
When spouse is living in the same household with employee.
222.17
“Child in care” when child of the employee is living with the claimant.
222.18
“Child in care” when child of the employee is not living with the claimant.

# Subpart C—Relationship as Divorced Spouse, Surviving Divorced Spouse, or Remarried Widow(er)
222.20
When determination of relationship as divorced spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or remarried widow(er) is made.
222.21
When marriage is terminated by final divorce.
222.22
Relationship as divorced spouse.
222.23
Relationship as surviving divorced spouse.
222.24
Relationship as remarried widow(er).

# Subpart D—Relationship as Child
222.30
When determinations of relationship as child are made.
222.31
Relationship as child for annuity and lump-sum payment purposes.
222.32
Relationship as a natural child.
222.33
Relationship resulting from legal adoption.
222.34
Relationship resulting from equitable adoption.
222.35
Relationship as stepchild.
222.36
Relationship as grandchild or stepgrandchild.

# Subpart E—Relationship as Parent, Grandchild, Brother or Sister
222.40
When determinations of relationship are made for parent, grandchild, brother or sister.
222.41
Determination of relationship and support for parent.
222.42
When employee is contributing to support.
222.43
How the one-half support determination is made.
222.44
Other relationship determinations for lump-sum payments.

# Subpart F—Child Support and Dependency
222.50
When child dependency determinations are made.
222.51
When a natural child is dependent.
222.52
When a legally adopted child is dependent—general.
222.53
When a legally adopted child is dependent—child adopted after entitlement.
222.54
[Reserved]
222.55
When a stepchild is dependent.
222.56
When a grandchild or stepgrandchild is dependent.
222.57
When an equitably adopted child is dependent.
222.58
When a child is living with an employee.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f.

# Source:
54 FR 42949, Oct. 19, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 222.1
Introduction.
This part sets forth and describes the family relationships that may make a claimant eligible for an annuity or lump-sum payment under the Railroad Retirement Act and furnishes the basic rules for determining when those relationships exist. Such relationships may result from a current or terminated marriage or through birth, death or adoption. Other relevant relationships are having a child in care, dependency or lack of it, contributing to support, living in the same household, and being under court order to contribute to support.
§ 222.2
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Annuity
means a payment under the Railroad Retirement Act due to an entitlement claimant for a calendar month and made to him or her on the first day of the following month.
Apply
means to sign a form or statement that the Railroad Retirement Board accepts as an application for an annuity or lump-sum payment under the rules set out in part 217 of this chapter.
Child
has differing definitions for annuity and lump-sum payment purposes. See § 222.31.
Claimant
means a person who files an application for an annuity or lump-sum payment or for whom an application is filed.
Eligible
means that a person would meet all the requirements for payment of an annuity or lump-sum payment as of a given date but has not yet applied therefor.
Employee
means an employee as defined in part 203 of this chapter.
Final divorce
means a divorce that completely dissolves a marriage and restores the parties to the status of single persons; it is also referred to as an absolute divorce.
Finally divorced person
means a person whose marriage has been terminated or dissolved by a final divorce.
Legal impediment
means that there was a defect in the procedures followed in a marriage ceremony or that a previous marriage of the employee or spouse had not ended at the time of the ceremony.
Lump-sum payment
means any of the following payments under the Railroad Retirement Act: lump-sum death payment, residual lump-sum, annuities due but unpaid at death, or lump-sum refund payment (see part 234 of this chapter).
Marriage
means the social and legal relationship of husband and wife for family relationship purposes, as well as the act by which the married state is effected.
Permanent home
means the employee's true and fixed home (legal domicile); it is the place to which the employee intends to return whenever he or she is absent therefrom.
Relationship
means a family connection by blood, marriage, or adoption between the employee and another person who is a claimant.
Spouse
means the husband or wife of the employee.
State law
means the law of the State in which the employee has his or her permanent home or, in the case of a deceased employee, the law of the State in which the employee had his or her permanent home at the time of his or her death. If the employee's permanent home is not in one of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, or American Samoa, the laws of the District of Columbia are applied.
§ 222.3
Other regulations related to this part.
This part is related to a number of other parts of this chapter:
Part 216 describes when a person is eligible for an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act.
Part 217 describes how to apply for an annuity or for lump-sum payments.
Part 218 sets forth the beginning and ending dates of annuities.
Part 219 sets out what evidence is necessary to prove eligibility and the relationships described in this part.
Part 220 describes when a person is eligible for a disability annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act or a period of disability under the Social Security Act.
Part 225 explains how primary insurance amounts (PIA's) are computed.
Part 226 outlines the computation of employee and spouse annuities.
Part 228 describes how survivor annuities are computed.
Part 229 describes when and how an employee and spouse annuity may be increased under the social security overall minimum provision.
Part 234 describes lump-sum payments under the Railroad Retirement Act.
§ 222.4
Homicide of employee.
No person convicted of the felonious and intentional homicide of an employee can be entitled to an annuity or lump-sum payment based on the employee's earnings record (service and compensation). Further, the convicted person is considered not to exist in deciding the rights of other persons to annuity or lump-sum payments. A minor may be denied a survivor annuity or lump-sum payment on the earnings record of a parent if the minor was convicted of intentionally causing the parent's death by an act which would be considered a felony if committed by an adult.

# Subpart B—Relationship as Wife, Husband, or Widow(er)
§ 222.10
When determinations of relationship as wife, husband, widow or widower of employee are made.
(a) The claimant's relationship as the wife or husband of an employee is determined when the claimant applies for an annuity, or when there is a claim which would include a husband or wife in the computation of the social security overall minimum provision, or when a claim is filed for a lump-sum payment. If a deemed marriage (see § 222.14) is to be determined, the husband, wife, or widow(er) must also be found to be or to have been living in the same household as the employee (see § 222.16).
(b) The claimant's relationship as the widow(er) of an employee is determined as of the date on which the employee died. If the claimant applied for a lump-sum payment as the widow(er) of the employee, one of the following determinations is made:
(1) Whether the widow(er) was living in the same household as the employee, as defined in § 222.16 of this part, at the time of the employee's death, if the claimant is applying for the 1974 Act lump-sum death payment.
(2) Whether the widow(er) was living with the employee, as defined in § 222.15 of this part, at the time of the employee's death, if the claimant is applying for the 1937 Act lump-sum death payment, annuities due but unpaid at death, the residual lump-sum payment, or a lump-sum refund payment.
(c) In order for a claimant who has applied for a monthly survivor annuity to establish a deemed marriage, the claimant must have been living in the same household as the employee at the time of the employee's death (see § 222.16).
(d) If the husband, wife, widow(er), remarried widow(er), or surviving divorced spouse of the employee is a claimant for a monthly annuity on a basis other than age or disability, a child-in-care determination is required (see §§ 222.17 and 222.18).
§ 222.11
Determination of marriage relationship.
A claimant will be considered to be the husband, wife, or widow(er) of an employee if the law of the State in which the employee has or had a permanent home would recognize that the claimant and employee were validly married, or if a deemed marriage is established.
(a) Generally, State courts will find that a claimant and employee were validly married if—
(1) The employee and claimant were married in a civil or religious ceremony (see § 222.12) or
(2) The employee and claimant live together in a common-law marriage relationship which is recognized under applicable State law (see § 222.13), and no impediment to the marriage existed at the time it took place.
(b) A deemed marriage relationship may be established as described in § 222.14.
§ 222.12
Ceremonial marriage relationship.
A valid ceremonial marriage is one which would be recognized as valid by the courts of the State in which the marriage ceremony took place. Generally, State law provides various procedures which must be followed, such as designation of who may perform the marriage ceremony, what licenses or witnesses are required, and similar rules. A ceremonial marriage may be a civil or religious ceremony, or a ceremony which follows tribal customs, Chinese customs, or similar traditional procedures.
§ 222.13
Common-law marriage relationship.
Under the laws of some States, a common-law marriage is one which is not solemnized in a formal ceremony, but is generally evidenced by a consummated agreement to marry between two persons legally capable of making a marriage contract, followed by cohabitation. The laws of the various States which recognize common-law marriage delineate specific factors which must be present in order to establish a valid common-law marriage in those States.
§ 222.14
Deemed marriage relationship.
If a ceremonial or common-law marriage relationship cannot be established under State law, a claimant may still be found to have the relationship as spouse of an employee based upon a deemed marriage. A claimant is deemed to be the wife, husband, or widow(er) of the employee if the person's marriage to the employee would have been valid under State law except for a legal impediment, and all of the following requirements are met:
(a) The claimant married the employee in a civil or religious ceremony.
(b) The claimant went through the marriage ceremony in good faith. Good faith means that at the time of the ceremony the claimant did not know that a legal impediment existed, or if the claimant did know, he or she thought that it would not prevent a valid marriage.
(c) The claimant was living in the same household as the employee (see § 222.16) when he or she applied for the spouse annuity or when the employee died.
[54 FR 42949, Oct. 19, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 20726, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 222.15
When spouse is living with employee.
A spouse, or widow(er) is living with the employee if—
(a) He or she and the employee are living in the same household; or
(b) The employee is contributing to the support of the spouse or widow(er); or
(c) The employee is under court order to contribute to the support of the spouse or widow(er).
§ 222.16
When spouse is living in the same household with employee.
(a) Living in the same household means that the employee and spouse customarily live together as a married couple in the same residence.
(b) The employee and spouse are also considered members of the same household when they live apart but expect to resume or continue living together after a temporary separation.
(c) If the employee and spouse were separated solely for medical reasons, the Board will consider them “living in the same household” even if the separation was likely to be permanent.
§ 222.17
“Child in care” when child of the employee is living with the claimant.
“Child in care” means a child who has been living with the claimant for at least 30 consecutive days unless—
(a) The child is in active military service;
(b) The child is 18 years old (16 with respect to male spouse, divorced spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or remarried widow(er) annuities) or older and is not disabled;
(c) The child is 18 years old (16 with respect to male spouse, divorced spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or remarried widow(er) annuities) or older with a mental disability and the claimant does not exercise parental control and responsibility; or
(d) The child is 18 years old (16 with respect to male spouse, divorced spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or remarried widow(er) annuities) or older with a physical disability, but it is not necessary for the claimant to perform personal services for the child.
(e) Parental control and responsibility for the care and welfare of the child means that the parent supervises the child's activities and makes important decisions about the child's needs either alone or with another person. Personal services are services such as dressing, feeding and managing money which the child cannot do alone because of a disability.
§ 222.18
“Child in care” when child of the employee is not living with the claimant.
(a)
When child is in care.
A child living apart from a claimant is in that claimant's care if—
(1) The child lives apart or is expected to live apart from the claimant for not more than six months; or
(2) The child is under 18 years old (16 with respect to male spouse, divorced spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or remarried widow(er) annuities), the claimant supervises the child's activities and makes important decisions about his or her needs, and one of the following circumstances applies:
(i) The child is living apart because of attendance at school but generally spends a vacation of at least 30 consecutive days with the claimant each year, and, if the claimant and the child's other parent are separated, the school must look to the claimant for decisions about the child's welfare.
(ii) The child is living apart because of the claimant's employment but the claimant makes regular and substantial contributions to the child's support. “Contributing to support” is defined in § 222.42.
(iii) The child is living apart because of the child's or the claimant's physical disability; or
(3) The child is 18 years old (16 with respect to male spouse, divorced spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or remarried widow(er) annuities) or older and is mentally disabled and the claimant supervises the child's activities, makes important decisions about the child's needs, and helps in the child's upbringing and development.
(b)
When child is not in care.
A child living apart from a claimant is not in the claimant's care if—
(1) The child is in active military service; or
(2) The child is living with his or her other parent; or
(3) A court order removed the child from the claimant's custody and control; or
(4) The claimant gave the right to custody and control of the child to someone else; or
(5) The claimant is mentally disabled.

# Subpart C—Relationship as Divorced Spouse, Surviving Divorced Spouse, or Remarried Widow(er)
§ 222.20
When determination of relationship as divorced spouse, surviving divorced spouse, or remarried widow(er) is made.
(a)
Divorced spouse.
The claimant's relationship as the divorced spouse of an employee is determined when the purported divorced spouse applies for an annuity, or when there is a claim which would include a divorced spouse in the computation of the social security overall minimum provision. Such a determination is also made when a spouse annuitant age 62 or over secures a final divorce from the employee after 10 years of marriage.
(b)
Surviving divorced spouse.
The claimant's relationship as the surviving divorced spouse of an employee is determined when the purported surviving divorced spouse applies for an annuity on the basis of age, disability, or having a child in care. Such a determination is also made when there is a divorced spouse annuitant and the employee dies.
(c)
Remarried widow(er).
The claimant's relationship as a remarried widow(er) of an employee is determined when the purported remarried widow(er) applies for an annuity. Such a determination is also made when a widow(er) who is receiving an annuity remarries after age 60, or when a widow(er) who is receiving a disability annuity remarries after age 50.
§ 222.21
When marriage is terminated by final divorce.
A final divorce, often referred to as an absolute divorce, completely dissolves the marriage relationship and restores the parties to the status of single persons. A legal separation, qualified or preliminary divorce, divorce from bed and board, interlocutory decree of divorce, or similar court order is not considered a final divorce for family relationship and benefit entitlement purposes.
§ 222.22
Relationship as divorced spouse.
A claimant will be considered to be the divorced spouse of an employee if—
(a) His or her marriage to the employee has been terminated by a final divorce; and
(b) He or she is not married (if the claimant remarried after the divorce from the employee, the later marriage has been terminated by death, final divorce, or annulment); and
(c) He or she had been validly married to the employee, as set forth in § 222.11, for a period of 10 years immediately before the date the divorce became final. The claimant meets this requirement even if the claimant and employee were divorced within the ten-year period, provided that the claimant and employee were remarried no later than the calendar year immediately following the year in which the divorce took place.
§ 222.23
Relationship as surviving divorced spouse.
A claimant will be considered to be the surviving divorced spouse of a deceased employee if the conditions in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section are met:
(a)
Age or disability.
The claimant applied for an annuity on the basis of age or disability, and the conditions set forth in § 222.22 are met.
(b)
Child in care.
The claimant applied for an annuity on the basis of having a child in care, and—
(1) His or her marriage to the employee has been terminated by a final divorce; and
(2) He or she is not married (if the claimant remarried after the divorce from the employee, the later marriage has been terminated by death, final divorce, or annulment); and
(3) He or she either—
(i) Was the natural parent of the employee's child; or
(ii) Had been married to the employee when either the employee or the claimant legally adopted the other's child or when they both legally adopted a child who was then under 18 years of age.
§ 222.24
Relationship as remarried widow(er).
(a)
New eligibility.
A claimant will have the relationship of a remarried widow(er) if he or she is the widow(er), as discussed in § 222.11, of an employee and the claimant—
(1) Remarried after attaining age 60, or remarried after attaining age 50 and after the date on which he or she became disabled; or
(2) Remarried before attaining age 60, but is now unmarried, or remarried before attaining age 50 or before the date on which he or she became disabled, but is now unmarried.
(b)
Reentitlement.
A claimant will have the relationship of a remarried widow(er) if he or she remarries after his or her entitlement to an annuity as a widow(er) has been established, and the claimant—
(1) Remarries after attaining age 60, or remarries after attaining age 50 and after the date on which he or she became disabled; or
(2) Is entitled to an annuity based upon having a child of the employee in care and remarries, but this marriage is to a person who is entitled to a retirement, disability, widow(er)'s, mother's, father's, parent's, or disabled child's benefit under the Railroad Retirement Act or Social Security Act.

# Subpart D—Relationship as Child
§ 222.30
When determinations of relationship as child are made.
(a) Determinations will be made regarding a person's relationship as the child of the employee and that person's dependency on the employee (see subpart F of this part) when—
(1) The wife or husband of an employee applies for a spouse's annuity based on having the employee's child in care; or
(2) The employee's annuity can be increased under the social security overall minimum provision based on the child; or
(3) The employee dies and the claimant applies for a child's annuity.
(b) A determination will be made regarding a claimant's relationship as the child of the employee when the claimant applies for a share of a lump-sum payment as a child.
§ 222.31
Relationship as child for annuity and lump-sum payment purposes.
(a)
Annuity claimant.
When there are claimants under paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of § 222.30, a person will be considered the child of the employee when that person is—
(1) The natural or legally adopted child of the employee (see § 222.33); or
(2) The stepchild of the employee; or
(3) The grandchild or step-grandchild of the employee or spouse; or
(4) The equitably adopted child of the employee.
(b)
Lump-sum payment claimant.
A claimant for a lump-sum payment must be one of the following in order to be considered the child of the employee:
(1) The natural child of the employee;
(2) A child legally adopted by the employee (this does not include any child adopted by the employee's widow or widower after the employee's death); or
(3) The equitably adopted child of the employee. For procedures on how a determination of the person's relationship to the employee is made, see §§ 222.32-222.33.
[65 FR 20726, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 222.32
Relationship as a natural child.
A claimant will be considered the natural child of the employee for both annuity and lump-sum payment purposes if one of the following sets of conditions is met:
(a)
State inheritance law.
Under relevant state inheritance law, the claimant could inherit a share of the employee's personal estate as the employee's natural child if the employee were to die without leaving a will as described in paragraph (e) of this section;
(b)
Natural child.
The claimant is the employee's natural son or daughter, and the employee and the claimant's mother or father went through a marriage ceremony which would have been valid except for a legal impediment;
(c)
By order of law.
The claimant's natural mother or father has not married the employee, but—
(1) The employee has acknowledged in writing that the claimant is his or her son or daughter; or
(2) A court has decreed that the employee is the mother or father of the claimant; or
(3) A court has ordered the employee to contribute to the claimant's support because the claimant is the employee's son or daughter; and,
(4) Such acknowledgment, court decree, or court order was made not less than one year before the employee became entitled to an annuity, or in the case of a disability annuitant prior to his or her most recent period of disability, or in case the employee is deceased, prior to his or her death. The written acknowledgment, court decree, or court order will be considered to have occurred on the first day of the month in which it actually occurred.
(d) Other evidence of relationship. The claimant's natural mother or father has not married the employee, but—
(1) The claimant has submitted evidence acceptable in the judgment of the Board, other than that discussed in paragraph (c) of this section, that the employee is his or her natural mother or father; and
(2) The employee was living with the claimant or contributing to the claimant's support, as discussed in §§ 222.58 and 222.42 of this part, when—
(i) The spouse applied for an annuity based on having the employee's child in care; or
(ii) The employee's annuity could have been increased under the social security overall minimum provision; or
(iii) The employee died, if the claimant is applying for a child's annuity or lump-sum payment.
(e)
Use of state laws
—(1)
General.
To determine whether a claimant is the natural child of the employee, the state inheritance laws regarding whether the claimant could inherit a child's share of the employee's personal property if he or she were to die intestate will apply. If such laws would permit the claimant to inherit the employee's personal property, the claimant will be considered the child of the employee. The state inheritance laws where the employee was domiciled when he or she died will apply. If the employee's domicile was not in one of the 50 states, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin slands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Northern Mariana Islands, the laws of the District of Columbia will apply.
(2)
Standards.
The Board will not apply any state inheritance law requirement that an action to establish paternity must have been commenced within a specific time period, measured from the employee's death or the child's birth, or that an action to establish paternity must have been commenced or completed before the employee's death. If state laws on inheritance require a court to determine paternity, the Board will not require such a determination, but the Board will decide paternity using the standard of proof that the state court would apply as the basis for making such a determination.
(3)
Employee is living.
If the employee is living, the Board will apply the state law where the employee is domiciled which was in effect when the annuity may first be increased under the social security overall minimum (see part 229 of this chapter). If under a version of state law in effect at that time, a person does not qualify as a child of the employee, the Board will look to all versions of state law in effect from when the employee's annuity may first have been increased until the Board makes a final decision, and will apply the version of state law most favorable to the employee.
(4)
Employee is deceased.
The Board will apply the state law where the employee was domiciled when he or she died. The Board will apply the version of state law in effect at the time of the final decision on the application for benefits. If under that version of state law the claimant does not qualify as the child of the employee, the Board will apply the state law in effect when the employee died, or any version of state law in effect from the month of potential entitlement to benefits until a final determination on the application. The Board will apply the version most beneficial to the claimant. The following rules determine the law in effect as of the employee's death:
(i) Any law enacted after the employee's death, if that law would have retroactive application to the employee's date of death, will apply; or
(ii) Any law that supersedes a law declared unconstitutional, that was considered constitutional on the employee's date of death, will apply.
[65 FR 20726, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 222.33
Relationship resulting from legal adoption.
(a)
Adopted by employee.
A claimant will be considered to be the child of the employee for both annuity and lump-sum payment purposes if the employee legally adopted the claimant in accordance with applicable State law. Legal adoption differs from equitable adoption in that in the case of legal adoption formal adoption proceedings have been completed in accordance with applicable State law and such proceedings are not defective.
(b)
Adopted by widow or widower.
A claimant who is legally adopted by the widow or widower of the employee after the employee's death will be considered to be the child of the employee for annuity but not for lump-sum payment purposes if—
(1) Either the claimant is adopted by the widow or widower within two years after the date on which the employee died, or the employee commenced proceedings to legally adopt the claimant before the employee's death; and
(2) The claimant was living in the employee's household at the time of the employee's death; and
(3) The claimant was not receiving regular support contributions from any other person other than the employee or spouse at the time of the employee's death.
(c) The adoption laws of the state or foreign country where the adoption took place, not the state inheritance laws, will determine whether the claimant is the employee's adopted child.
[54 FR 42949, Oct. 19, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 20727, Apr. 18, 2000]
§ 222.34
Relationship resulting from equitable adoption.
In many States, where a legal adoption proceeding was defective under State law or where a contemplated legal adoption was not completed, a claimant may be considered to be an equitably adopted child. A claimant will have the relationship of an equitably adopted child for annuity and lump-sum payment purposes if, in addition to meeting the other requirements of this part—
(a) The employee had agreed to adopt the claimant; and
(b) The natural parents or the person legally responsible for the care of the claimant agreed to the adoption; and
(c) The employee and the claimant lived together as parent and child; and
(d) The agreement to adopt is recognized under applicable State law such that, if the employee were to die without leaving a will, the claimant could inherit a share of the employee's personal estate as the child of the employee.
§ 222.35
Relationship as stepchild.
A claimant will be considered to have the relationship of stepchild of an employee, and will be considered a child for annuity but not for lump-sum benefit purposes if—
(a) The claimant's natural or adoptive parent married the employee after the claimant's birth; and
(b) The marriage between the employee and the claimant's parent is a valid marriage under applicable State law (see §§ 222.12 and 222.13), or would be valid except for a legal impediment; and
(c) The employee and the claimant's parent were married at least one year before the date—
(1) On which the spouse applies for an annuity based on having the employee's child in care; or
(2) On which the employee's annuity can be increased under the social security overall minimum provision; or
(d) The employee and the claimant's parent were married at least nine months before the date on which the employee died if the claimant is applying for a child's annuity; or if the employee and the claimant's parent were married less than nine months, the employee was reasonably expected to live for nine months, and—
(1) The employee's death was accidental; or
(2) The employee died in the line of duty as a member of the armed forces of the United States; or
(3) The widow(er) was previously married to the employee for at least nine months.
§ 222.36
Relationship as grandchild or stepgrandchild.
A claimant will have the relationship of grandchild or stepgrandchild of an employee, or the grandchild or stepgrandchild of an employee's spouse, and be considered a child for annuity purposes if the requirements in both paragraph (a) and either paragraph (b) or (c) of this section are met.
(a) The claimant is the natural child, adopted child, or stepchild of a child of an employee, or of a child of the employee's spouse as defined in this subpart;
(b) The claimant's natural or adoptive parents are deceased or are disabled, as defined in section 223(d) of the Social Security Act, in the month in which—
(1) The employee, who is entitled to an age and service or disability annuity, under the Railroad Retirement Act, would also be entitled to an age benefit under section 202(a) of the Social Security Act or a disability benefit under section 223 of the Social Security Act, if his or her railroad compensation were considered wages under that Act; or
(2) The employee dies; or
(3) The employee's period of disability begins, if the employee has a period of disability which continues until he or she could be entitled to a social security benefit as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or until he or she dies.
(c) The claimant was legally adopted in the United States by the employee's widow(er) after the employee's death, and the claimant's natural or adoptive parent or stepparent was not living in the employee's household and making regular contributions to the claimant's support at the time the employee died.

# Note:
A grandchild or stepgrandchild does not have the relationship of “child” for lump-sum payment purposes (see § 222.44).

# Subpart E—Relationship as Parent, Grandchild, Brother or Sister
§ 222.40
When determinations of relationship are made for parent, grandchild, brother or sister.
(a)
Parent.
The claimant's relationship as a parent of the employee is determined when the claimant applies for an annuity or for lump-sum payments.
(b)
Grandchild.
The claimant's relationship as a grandchild, rather than as a child, of the employee is determined when the claimant applies for lump-sum payments.
(c)
Brother or sister.
The claimant's relationship as a brother or sister of the employee is determined when the claimant applies for lump-sum payments.
§ 222.41
Determination of relationship and support for parent.
(a)
Annuity claimant.
For purposes of applying for an annuity, a claimant is considered the employee's parent when the claimant—
(1) Is the natural mother or father of the employee, and is considered the employee's parent under the law of the State in which the employee had a permanent home when the employee died; or
(2) Is a person who legally adopted the employee before the employee became 16 years old; or
(3) Is a stepparent who married the employee's natural or adoptive parent before the employee became 16 years old (the marriage must be valid under the law of the State in which the employee had a permanent home when the employee died); and
(4) Was receiving at least one-half support from the employee (see §§ 222.42 and 222.43 of this part) either when the employee died or at the beginning of the period of disability, if the employee had a period of disability.
(b)
Lump-sum payment claimant.
For purposes of applying for lump-sum payments, a claimant is considered the employee's parent when he or she—
(1) Is the natural mother or father of the employee, and is considered the employee's parent under applicable State law; or
(2) Legally adopted the employee, if thereby recognized as a parent under applicable State law; but
(3) The claimant need not have received one-half support from the employee.
§ 222.42
When employee is contributing to support.
(a) An employee is contributing to the support of a person if the employee gives cash, goods, or services to help support such person. Support includes food, clothing, housing, routine medical care, and other ordinary and necessary living expenses. The value of any goods which the employee contributes shall be based upon the replacement cost of those goods at the time they are contributed. If the employee provides services that would otherwise require monetary payment, the cash value of the employee's services may be considered a contribution to support.
(b) The employee is contributing to the support of a person if that person receives an allotment, allowance, or benefit based upon the employee's military pay, veteran's pension or compensation, social security earnings, or railroad compensation.
(c) Contributions must be made regularly and must be large enough to meet an important part of the person's ordinary and necessary living expenses. If the employee provides only occasional gifts or donations for special purposes, they will not be considered contributions for support. Although the employee's contributions must be made on a regular basis, temporary interruptions caused by circumstances beyond the employee's control, such as illness or unemployment, will be disregarded unless during these interruptions someone else assumes responsibility for support of the person on a regular basis.
§ 222.43
How the one-half support determination is made.
(a)
Amount of contributions.
The employee provides one-half support to a person if the employee makes regular contributions to that person's support, and the amount of the contributions is equal to or in excess of one-half of the person's ordinary and necessary living expenses. Ordinary and necessary living expenses are the costs for food, clothing, housing, routine medical care, and similar necessities. A contribution may be in cash, goods, or services (see § 222.42 of this part). For example, an employee pays rent and utilities amounting to $6,000 per year on an apartment in which his mother resides. In addition, the employee's mother receives $3,600 per year in social security benefits which she uses to pay for her food, clothing and medical care. The mother's total necessary living expenses are $9,600 ($6,000 + $3,600). Since the employee contributes $6,000 toward these expenses, he is contributing in excess of one-half of his mother's support.
(b)
Reasonable period of time.
The employee is not providing at least one-half of a person's support unless the employee has made contributions for a reasonable period of time. Ordinarily, the Board will consider a reasonable period of time to be the 12-month period immediately preceding the time when the one-half support requirement must be satisfied. However, if the employee provided one-half or more of the person's support for at least 3 months of the 12-month period, and was forced to stop or reduce contributions because of circumstances beyond his or her control, such as illness or unemployment, and no one else took over responsibility for providing at least one-half of the person's support on a permanent basis, three months shall be considered a reasonable period of time.
§ 222.44
Other relationship determinations for lump-sum payments.
Other claimants will be considered to have the relationships to the employee shown below for lump-sum payment purposes:
(a)
Grandchildren.
A grandchild is a separate class of beneficiary to be considered for lump-sum payments and is not a child of the employee; he or she is a child of the employee's son or daughter as determined under State law. A stepgrandchild is not included in this class of beneficiary.
(b)
Brother or Sister.
“Brother” or “Sister” means a full brother or sister or a half brother or half sister, but not a stepbrother or stepsister.

# Subpart F—Child Support and Dependency
§ 222.50
When child dependency determinations are made.
(a)
Dependency determination.
One of the requirements for a child's annuity or for increasing an employee or spouse annuity under the social security overall minimum provision on the basis of the presence of a child in the family group is that the child be dependent upon the employee. The dependency requirements and the time when they must be met are explained in §§ 222.51 through 222.57.
(b)
Related determinations.
To prove a child's dependency, an applicant may be asked to show that at a specific time the child lived with the employee, that the child received contributions for his or her support from the employee, or that the employee provided at least one-half of the child's support. The terms “living with”, “contributing to support”, and “one-half support” are defined in §§ 222.58, 222.42, an 222.43. These determinations are required when—
(1) A natural child or legally adopted child of the employee is adopted by someone else; or
(2) The child claimant is the stepchild, grandchild, or equitably adopted child of the employee.
§ 222.51
When a natural child is dependent.
The employee's natural child, as defined in § 222.32, is considered to be dependent upon the employee. However, if the child is legally adopted by someone else during the employee's lifetime and, after the adoption, a child's annuity or other annuity or annuity increase is applied for on the basis of the employee's earnings record and the relationship of the child to the employee, the child will be considered dependent upon the employee (the natural parent) only if he or she was either living with the employee or the employee was contributing to the child's support when either:
(a) A spouse's annuity begins; or
(b) The employee's annuity can be increased under the social security overall minimum provision; or
(c) The employee dies; or
(d) If the employee had a period of disability which lasted until he or she could have become entitled to an age or disability benefit under the Social Security Act (treating the employee's railroad compensation as wages under that Act), at the beginning of the period of disability or at the time the employee could have become entitled to the benefit.
§ 222.52
When a legally adopted child is dependent—general.
(a)
During employee's lifetime.
If the employee adopts a child before he or she could become entitled to a social security benefit (treating his or her railroad compensation as wages under that Act), the child is considered dependent upon the employee. If the employee adopts a child, unless the child is his natural child or stepchild, after he or she could become entitled to an old age or disability benefit under the Social Security Act (treating his or her railroad compensation as wages under that Act), the child is considered dependent on the employee only if the requirements of § 222.53 are met.
(b)
After employee's death.
If the surviving spouse of an employee adopted a child after the employee's death, the child is considered dependent on the employee if either—
(1) The employee began proceedings to adopt the child prior to his or her death, or the surviving spouse adopted the child within two years after the employee's death; and
(2) The child was living in the employee's household at the time of the employee's death; and
(3) The child was not receiving regular contributions from any person, including any public or private welfare organization, other than the employee or spouse at the time of the employee's death.
§ 222.53
When a legally adopted child is dependent—child adopted after entitlement.
A child who is not the employee's natural child or stepchild, and who is adopted by the employee after the employee could become entitled to an old age or disability benefit under the Social Security Act (treating his or her railroad compensation as wages under
that Act), is considered dependent on the employee during the employee's lifetime only if—
(a) The child had not attained age 18 when adoption proceedings were commenced, and the child's adoption was issued by a court of competent jurisdiction within the United States; or
(b) The child had attained age 18 before adoption proceedings were commenced, the child's adoption was issued by a court of competent jurisdiction within the United States, and the child was living with or receiving at least one-half of the child's support from the employee for the year immediately preceding the month in which the adoption was issued.
[89 FR 47461, June 3, 2024]
§ 222.54
[Reserved]
§ 222.55
When a stepchild is dependent.
An employee's stepchild, as described in § 222.35, is considered dependent on the employee if the stepchild receiving at least one-half of his or her support from the employee at one of the times shown in § 222.51.
[54 FR 42949, Oct. 19, 1989, as amended at 62 FR 47138, Sept. 8, 1997]
§ 222.56
When a grandchild or stepgrandchild is dependent.
An employee's grandchild or stepgrandchild, as described in § 222.36, is considered dependent on the employee if the requirements in both paragraphs (a) and (b), or paragraph (c) of this section are met:
(a) The grandchild or stepgrandchild was living with the employee before the grandchild or stepgrandchild attained age 18.
(b) The grandchild or stepgrandchild is living with the employee in the United States and receives at least one-half of his or her support from the employee for the year before the month in which—
(1) The employee could become entitled to an age and service or disability annuity under the Social Security Act (treating his or her railroad compensation as wages under that Act); or
(2) The employee dies; or
(3) The employee becomes entitled to a period of disability that lasts until he or she could become entitled to a social security benefit as described above or until he or she dies.
(c) In the case of a grandchild or stepgrandchild born within the one-year period referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, at the close of such period the child must have been living with and receiving at least one-half of his or her support from the employee for substantially all of the period that began on the date the grandchild or stepgrandchild was born. “Substantially all” is defined in § 222.53.
§ 222.57
When an equitably adopted child is dependent.
An employee's equitably adopted child, as defined in § 222.34, is considered dependent upon the employee if the employee was either living with or contributing to the support of the child at the time of his or her death. If the equitable adoption is found to have occurred after the employee could have become entitled to an old age or disability benefit under the Social Security Act (treating his or her railroad compensation as wages under that Act), the child is not considered dependent on the employee during the employee's lifetime. If the equitable adoption took place before such time, the child is dependent on the employee if the employee was living with or contributing to the support of the child at one of the times shown in § 222.51.
§ 222.58
When a child is living with an employee.
A child is living with the employee if the child normally lives in the same household with the employee and the employee has parental control and authority over the child's activities. The child is considered to be “living with” the employee while they are living apart if they expect to live together again after a temporary separation. A temporary separation may include the employee's absence because of working away from home or hospitalization. However, the employee must have parental control and authority over the child during the period of temporary separation. A child who is in active military service or in prison is not “living with” the employee, since the
employee does not have parental control over the child.
Pt. 225

# PART 225—PRIMARY INSURANCE AMOUNT DETERMINATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
225.1
Introduction.
225.2
Definitions.
225.3
PIA computation formulas.
225.4
Limitation on amount of earnings used to compute a PIA.

# Subpart B—PIA's Used in Computing Employee, Spouse and Divorced Spouse Annuities
225.10
General.
225.11
Tier I PIA.
225.12
Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA.
225.13
Social Security Earnings Dual Benefit PIA.
225.14
Railroad Earnings Dual Benefit PIA.
225.15
Overall Minimum PIA.

# Subpart C—PIA's Used in Computing Survivor Annuities and the Amount of the Residual Lump-Sum Payable
225.20
General.
225.21
Survivor Tier I PIA.
225.22
Employee RIB PIA used in survivor annuities.
225.23
Combined Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities.
225.24
SS Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities.
225.25
RR Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities.
225.26
Residual Lump-Sum PIA.

# Subpart D—Delayed Retirement Credits
225.30
General.
225.31
PIA's to which DRC's are added.
225.32
DRC's and the Special Minimum PIA.
225.33
Months for which DRC's are due.
225.34
How the amount of the DRC is figured.
225.35
When a PIA used in computing a retirement annuity can be increased for DRC's.
225.36
Effect of DRC's on survivor annuities.

# Subpart E—Cost-of-Living Increases
225.40
General.
225.41
How a cost-of-living increase is determined and applied.
225.42
Notice of the percentage amount of a cost-of-living increase.
225.43
PIA's subject to cost-of-living increases.
225.44
When a cost-of-living increase is payable.

# Subpart F—Recomputing PIA's
225.50
General.
225.51
PIA's that are subject to recomputation.
225.52
Reasons for recomputing a PIA.
225.53
Recomputation to consider additional earnings.
225.54
Recomputation when an employee is eligible for periodic pension payments based on other than railroad or social security earnings.
225.55
Recomputation to use a new or different PIA formula.
225.56
Automatic recomputation.
225.57
Requesting a recomputation.
225.58
Waiver of recomputation.

# Subpart G—Adjusting PIA's
225.60
Adjustment at age 62 when employee is entitled to an annuity based on 30 years of railroad service.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f(b)(5).

# Source:
54 FR 12903, Mar. 29, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 225.1
Introduction.
This part discusses Primary Insurance Amount, which is referred to as PIA throughout this part, and which is an important element in the calculation of any retirement or survivor annuity. There are a number of PIA computations based on different periods, amounts, and types of earnings. However, the formulas for computing any PIA are prescribed in section 215 of the Social Security Act and are described in detail in the regulations of the Social Security Administration (20 CFR part 404, subpart C). This part discusses PIA computation formulas and relates them to the PIA's which the Board uses. Descriptions of the majority of PIA's used in computing retirement or survivor annuities under the Railroad Retirement Act are contained in this part. Explanations are included of when delayed retirement credits and cost-of-living increases can be added to the PIA's used by the Board. This part also explains when and how a PIA is recomputed or adjusted. Since these regulations are intended to address annuities currently being awarded, certain PIA's, not used in the computation of
annuities awarded after August 13, 1981, are not included in these regulations. Parts 226, 228 and 229 of this chapter explain how PIA's are used in actual annuity computations.
§ 225.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Average Indexed Monthly Earnings
means the result of dividing the total of the indexed earnings through the indexing year and the nonindexed earnings after the indexing year in the benefit computation years by the number of months in the benefit computation years. The indexing year for the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings PIA is the second year before the employee's eligibility year. Indexing of an employee's yearly earnings serves to put the earnings in proportion to the earnings level of all workers for the corresponding years, and to express the earnings in terms of a more recent dollar value. Indexed earnings are determined under section 215(b)(1) of the Social Security Act. The Average Indexed Monthly Earnings formula PIA is based on the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings amount.
Average Monthly Earnings
means the average determined by dividing the acutal earnings used in computing the PIA by the total months in the benefit computation years. The Average Monthly Earnings is determined under section 215(b)(4) of the Social Security Act. The Average Monthly Earnings formula PIA is based on the Average Monthly Earnings amount.
Base Years
means the years after 1950 (or 1936, if applicable) and up to the year in which the employee dies or is entitled to an annuity based on retirement or disability. When the employee's death occurs before he or she reaches retirement age as defined in section 216(l) of the Social Security Act, the Base Years include the year of the employee's death. Base Years are defined in sections 215(b)(2)(B)(ii) and 215(d) of the Social Security Act.
Benefit Computation Years
means the years with the highest earnings used in computing the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings or Average Monthly Earnings. The number of Benefit Computation Years is determined in accordance with section 215(b)(2)(B)(i) of the Social Security Act and is based on the employee's age or when the employee becomes disabled or dies.
Compensation
means
railroad compensation
which is the amount of creditable railroad earnings under the Railroad Retirement Act, as explained in part 211 of this chapter.
Earnings
means
compensation
creditable under the Railroad Retirement Act (other than compensation attributable to years of service prior to 1937) or “wages” creditable under the Social Security Act or both.
Eligible
means that a person meets the necessary requirements and could qualify for payment if a valid application were filed.
Eligibility Year
means the earliest of: the employee's year of attainment of age 62; The year of disability onset; or the year of death. The Eligibility Year determines the formula used to compute a Primary Insurance Amount. Eligibility Year is defined in section 215(a) of the Social Security Act.
Employee
means any person who is working or has worked for a railroad employer who is eligible for a retirement annuity or on whose account a survivor is eligible for a survivor annuity, as explained in part 216 of this chapter. For a detailed discussion of Employees under the Railroad Retirement Act, see part 203 of this chapter.
Entitled
means that a person meets the necessary requirements, files a valid application and establishes his or her right to payment.
Indexed Earnings
means the employee's yearly earnings for the years after 1950 that have been adjusted to put the earnings in proportion to the earnings level of all workers for each of those years and to express the earnings in terms of a more recent dollar amount.
Primary Insurance Amount
(PIA) means the result obtained by applying one of three formulas in the Social Security Act to the employee's earnings as prescribed under that Act. A PIA can be based on the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings formula, the Average Monthly Earnings formula or, in the case of the Special Minimum PIA, on a special formula based on years of coverage. Averaging earnings and PIA formulas are prescribed in section 215 of the Social Security Act.
Social Security Act
means the Social Security Act as amended from time to time, unless the Act as in effect on a particular date is specified.
Wages
means creditable wages or self-employment under sections 209 or 211, respectively, of the Social Security Act.
Year of service
means 12 months of railroad service credited in accordance with part 210 of this chapter.
Years of coverage
means years after 1936 as defined in section 215(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Social Security Act in which the employee had earnings over certain specified amounts. Years of Coverage is primarily a factor in determining the Special Minimum formula PIA amount.
[54 FR 12903, Mar. 29, 1989, as amended at 68 FR 39010, July 1, 2003]
§ 225.3
PIA computation formulas.
(a)
General.
PIA's are generally computed under one of two normal formulas determined by the employee's eligibility year. In addition, there is a special PIA formula, based on an employee's years of coverage, that is used when it produces a PIA that is higher than the PIA computed under the appropriate PIA formula. The two most common PIA formulas are the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings PIA formula and the Average Monthly Earnings PIA formula. The special PIA formula is called the Special Minimum PIA formula.
(b)
Average Indexed Monthly Earnings PIA formula.
When the employee's eligibility year is after 1978, the Tier I PIA, Overall Minimum PIA, Survivor Tier I PIA, Employee's Retirement Insurance Benefit PIA and Residual Lump-Sum PIA are computed under the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings PIA formula.
(c)
Average Monthly Earnings PIA formula.
The Average Monthly Earnings PIA formula is used to compute a PIA for one of two reasons: either the employee's eligibility year is before 1979 or the type of PIA requires that it always be computed under the Average Monthly Earnings PIA formula.
(1)
Use of Average Monthly Earnings PIA formula based on the employee's eligibility year.
The Average Monthly Earnings PIA formula is used in computing the Tier I PIA, the Overall Minimum PIA, the Employee Fictional Retirement Insurance Benefit PIA and the Residual Lump-Sum PIA when the employee's eligibility year is before 1979.
(2)
Types of PIA's always computed using the Average Monthly Earnings PIA formula.
The following PIA's used by the Board are determined under the Social Security Act as in effect on December 31, 1974, and are always computed using the Average Monthly Earnings PIA formula.
(i) Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA described in § 225.12.
(ii) Social Security Earnings Dual Benefit PIA described in § 225.13.
(iii) Railroad Earnings Dual Benefit PIA described in § 225.14.
(iv) Combined Earnings PIA described in § 225.23.
(v) Social Security Earnings PIA described in § 225.24.
(vi) Railroad Earnings PIA described in § 225.25.
(d)
Special Minimum PIA formula.
The Special Minimum PIA formula is based on the employee's years of coverage. The Special Minimum PIA formula usually applies when the employee had consistently low earnings during his or her working lifetime. The Special Minimum PIA formula is used when it is higher than the PIA calculated under the applicable Average Indexed Monthly Earnings formula or the Average Monthly Earnings formula.
§ 225.4
Limitation on amount of earnings used to compute a PIA.
Certain PIA's used by the Board are based on a combination of compensation and wages, while other PIA's used by the Board are based solely on either compensation or wages. For purposes of crediting earnings when computing any PIA, compensation is always treated as wages. Regardless of whether a PIA is based on a combination of compensation and wages or exclusively on either compensation or wages, the total earnings for each year used in computing a PIA cannot be higher than the maximum social security earnings creditable in that year under sections 209(a) and 211(b) of the Social Security Act. The various PIA's used by the
Board are described in subparts B and C of this part.

# Subpart B—PIA's Used in Computing Employee, Spouse and Divorced Spouse Annuities
§ 225.10
General.
This subpart contains information about the PIA's that can be used in computing most employee, spouse and divorced spouse annuities. The Tier I PIA is used in computing the tier I component of an employee, spouse or divorced spouse annuity. The Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA, Social Security Earnings Dual Benefit PIA and Railroad Earnings Dual Benefit PIA are used in computing an employee's vested dual benefit component and a corresponding tier II component offset when entitlement to a vested dual benefit exists. Retirement annuity computations are discussed in part 226 of this chapter. The Overall Minimum PIA is used in computing the overall minimum guaranty formula rate as discussed in part 229 of this chapter.
§ 225.11
Tier I PIA.
(a)
General.
The Tier I PIA is used in computing an employee, spouse or divorced spouse tier I amount. Except for the cases described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, a Tier I PIA is determined under sections 215 and 223 of the Social Security Act. Railroad and Social Security earnings are included in the calculation of a Tier I PIA.
(b)
Employee attains age 60 and/or acquires 30 years of service after June 30, 1984.
When an employee is entitled to an age and service annuity before the month of attaining age 62, as explained in part 216 of this chapter, the following Railroad Retirement Act rules apply in addition to those in § 225.11(a) in computing the Tier I PIA.
(1) Four months before the first full month the employee is age 62, the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings is determined as if the employee's eligibility year were the year the annuity began.
(2) The benefit computation years used in computing the Tier I PIA are based on the date of the employee's actual attainment of age 62.
(3) The Tier I PIA is adjusted when the employee reaches age 62 to use the year in which the employee attains age 62 as the eligibility year.
(4) Cost-of-living increases and recomputations apply after the employee attains age 62.
(c)
Employee attains age 60 and acquires 30 years of service before July 1, 1984.
For purposes of determining the benefit computation years to be used in computing the Tier I PIA for an employee who is age 60 through 64, and who both has 30 years of service and attains age 60 prior to July 1, 1984, the employee is considered to be age 65 when the age and service annuity begins. For purposes of computing the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings, the eligibility year is the year the annuity begins or age 62, if earlier. Cost-of-living increases are paid from the year the annuity begins. Recomputations are paid after the employee actually attain age 62.
(d)
Disability annuity.
When an employee is entitled to a disability annuity, as explained in subpart B of part 216 of this chapter, the following Railroad Retirement Act rule applies in addition to those in § 225.11(a) in computing the Tier I PIA. The Tier I PIA is computed as if the employee were 62 years old on the date, as determined by the Board, of onset of disability, if the employee is under age 62 on that date.
§ 225.12
Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA.
(a)
General.
The Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA is used in computing the employee vested dual benefit when the employee meets certain eligibility requirements as described in part 216 of this chapter. The Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA is also used in computing the employee's tier II annuity component when the employee becomes entitled to a vested dual benefit. This PIA is determined under section 215 of the Social Security Act as in effect on December 31, 1974. Railroad and social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if applicable) and through December 31, 1974, or the last year of railroad service before 1974 are included in the calculation of this PIA.
(b)
Employee insured on own wage record on December 31, 1974.
Railroad
and social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) and through 1974 are used in computing the Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA if the employee—
(1) Had at least 25 years of railroad service before January 1, 1975; or
(2) Had at least 10 years of railroad service as of December 31, 1974, and worked in the railroad industry anytime during calendar year 1974; or
(3) Had at least 10 years of railroad service as of December 31, 1974, and had a current connection with the railroad industry (as described in part 216 of this chapter) on December 31, 1974, or when the employee annuity began.
(c)
Employee insured on own wage record in last year of railroad service.
Railroad and social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) and through December 31 of the year before 1974 in which the employee last worked in railroad service are used in computing the Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA if the employee—
(1) Had at least 10 but less than 25 years of railroad service through December 31, 1974; and
(2) Did not work in the railroad industry during 1974; and
(3) Did not have a current connection with the railroad industry (as described in part 216 of this chapter) on December 31, 1974, or when the employee annuity began.
§ 225.13
Social Security Earnings Dual Benefit PIA.
(a)
General.
The Social Security Earnings Dual Benefit PIA is used in computing the employee vested dual benefit when the employee meets certain eligibility requirements as described in part 216 of this chapter. The Social Security Dual Benefit PIA is also used in computing the employee's tier II annuity component when the employee becomes entitled to a vested dual benefit. This PIA is determined under section 215 of the Social Security Act as in effect on December 31, 1974. Social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if applicable) and through December 31, 1974, or the last year of railroad service before 1974 are included in the calculation of this PIA.
(b)
Employee insured on own wage record on December 31, 1974.
Social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) and through 1974 are used in computing the Social Security Earnings Dual Benefit PIA if the employee—
(1) Had at least 25 years of railroad service before January 1, 1975; or
(2) Had at least 10 years of railroad service as of December 31, 1974, and worked in the railroad industry anytime during calendar year 1974; or
(3) Had at least 10 years of railroad service as of December 31, 1974, and has a current connection with the railroad industry (as described in part 216 of this chapter) on December 31, 1974, or when the employee annuity began.
(c)
Employee insured on own wage record in last year of railroad service.
Social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) and through December 31 of the year before 1974 in which the employee last worked in the railroad industry are used in computing the Social Security Earnings Dual Benefit PIA if the employee—
(1) Had at least 10 but less than 25 years of railroad service through December 31, 1974; and
(2) Did not work in the railroad industry during 1974; and
(3) Did not have a current connection with the railroad industry (as described in part 216 of this chapter) on December 31, 1974, or when the employee annuity began.
§ 225.14
Railroad Earnings Dual Benefit PIA.
(a)
General.
The Railroad Earnings Dual Benefit PIA is used in computing the employee vested dual benefit when the employee meets certain eligibility requirements as described in part 216 of this chapter. The Railroad Earnings Dual Benefit PIA is also used in computing the employee's tier II annuity component when the employee becomes entitled to a vested dual benefit. This PIA is determined under section 215 of the Social Security Act as in effect on December 31, 1974. Railroad earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if applicable) and through December 31, 1974, or the last year of railroad service
before 1974 are included in the calculation of this PIA.
(b)
Employee insured on own wage record on December 31, 1974.
Railroad earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) and through 1974 are used in computing the Railroad Earnings Dual Benefit PIA if the employee—
(1) Had at least 25 years of railroad service before January 1, 1975; or
(2) Had at least 10 years of railroad service as of December 31, 1974, and worked in the railroad industry anytime during calendar year 1974; or
(3) Had at least 10 years of railroad service as of December 31, 1974, and had a current connection with the railroad industry (as described in part 216 of this chapter) on December 31, 1974, or when the employee annuity began.
(c)
Employee insured on own wage record in last year of railroad service.
Railroad earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) and through December 31 of the year before 1974 in which the employee last worked in railroad service are used in computing the Railroad Earnings Dual Benefit PIA if the employee—
(1) Had at least 10 but less than 25 years of railroad service through December 31, 1974; and
(2) Did not work in the railroad industry during 1974; and
(3) Did not have a current connection with the railroad industry (as described in part 216 of this chapter) on December 31, 1974, or when the employee annuity began.
§ 225.15
Overall Minimum PIA.
The Overall Minimum PIA is considered when the employee would be eligible for an old age insurance benefit or a disability insurance benefit under section 202 or 223 of the Social Security Act based on combined railroad and social security earnings. The Overall Minimum PIA is used in computing the social security overall minimum guaranty amount. The overall minimum guaranty rate annuity formula is discussed in part 229 of this chapter. The Overall Minimum PIA is determined under the rules in sections 215 and 223 of the Social Security Act. Railroad and social security earnings are included in the calculation of the Overall Minimum PIA. The Overall Minimum PIA is used to determine the amount which is treated as a social security benefit for the purpose of taxation pursuant to section 86(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

# Subpart C—PIA's Used in Computing Survivor Annuities and the Amount of the Residual Lump-Sum Payable
§ 225.20
General.
The Survivor Tier I PIA and the Employee RIB PIA are used in computing the tier I component of a survivor annuity. The Combined Earnings PIA, Social Security Earnings PIA and Railroad Earnings PIA may be used in computing a vested dual benefit offset in the survivor tier II component when the survivor tier II is based on a percentage of the employee annuity tier II. In addition, these three PIA's are identical to those dual benefit PIA's used in computing an employee retirement annuity, as described in subpart B of this part, when the employee died after being entitled to an annuity. Survivor annuity computations are discussed in part 228 of this chapter. The Residual Lump-Sum PIA (RLS PIA) is used in computing the amount of the residual lump-sum payable when retirement annuity payments were made, as explained in part 234 of this chapter.
§ 225.21
Survivor Tier I PIA.
The Survivor Tier I PIA is used in computing the tier I component of a survivor annuity. This PIA is determined in accordance with section 215 of the Social Security Act using the deceased employee's combined railroad and social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936 if a higher PIA would result) through the date of the employee's death.
§ 225.22
Employee RIB PIA used in survivor annuities.
The Employee Retirement Insurance Benefit PIA (Employee RIB PIA) is used to compute the employee RIB amount when the employee had received a retirement annuity which was reduced for early retirement. As explained in part 228 of this chapter, the
employee RIB amount may be used in the survivor tier I component. This PIA is computed in accordance with section 215 of the Social Security Act using the deceased employee's combined railroad and social security earnings. The Employee RIB PIA is the same as the Survivor Tier I PIA when the employee had no earnings in the year of death. Earnings in the year of death are used in the recomputed PIA beginning January 1 of the year after the employee's death. (See subpart F of this part for a discussion of PIA recomputations.)
§ 225.23
Combined Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities.
The Combined Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities may be used in computing the tier II component when the survivor tier II is based on a percentage of the employee annuity tier II and the employee had been or would be, if he or she were still alive, entitled to a vested dual benefit. If the employee received a retirement annuity before death, this PIA is identical to the retirement Combined Earnings Dual Benefit PIA described in subpart B of this part. If a retirement annuity was not paid before the employee's death, the PIA is determined as if the employee were 65 years old in the month of his or her death. The Combined Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities is determined in accordance with section 215 of the Social Security Act as in effect on December 31, 1974. It is computed using the deceased employee's combined railroad and social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936 if a higher PIA would result) through December 31, 1974.
§ 225.24
SS Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities.
The Social Security Earnings PIA (SS Earnings PIA) used in survivor annuities may be used in computing the tier II component when the survivor tier II is based on a percentage of the employee annuity tier II and the employee had been or would be, if he or she were still alive, entitled to a vested dual benefit. If the employee received a retirement annuity before death, this PIA is identical to the retirement SS Earnings Dual Benefit PIA described in subpart B of this part. If a retirement annuity was not paid before the employee's death, the PIA is determined as if the employee were 65 years old in the month of his or her death. The SS Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities is determined in accordance with section 215 of the Social Security Act as in effect on December 31, 1974. It is computed using the deceased employee's social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) through December 31, 1974.
§ 225.25
RR Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities.
The Railroad Earnings PIA (RR Earnings PIA) used in survivor annuities may be used in computing the tier II component when the survivor tier II is based on a percentage of the employee annuity tier II and the employee had been or would be, if he or she were still alive, entitled to a vested dual benefit. If the employee received a retirement annuity before death, this PIA is identical to the retirement RR Earnings Dual Benefit PIA described in subpart B of this part. If a retirement annuity was not paid before the employee's death, the PIA is determined as if the employee were 65 years old in the month of his or her death. The RR Earnings PIA used in survivor annuities is determined in accordance with section 215 of the Social Security Act as in effect on December 31, 1974. It is computed using the deceased employee's railroad earnings after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) through December 31, 1974.
§ 225.26
Residual Lump-Sum PIA.
The Residual Lump-Sum PIA (RLS PIA) is used to compute the regular retirement annuity amounts to be deducted from the gross residual lump-sum amount in determining the amount of the residual lump-sum payable, as explained in part 234 of this chapter. The RLS PIA is determined in accordance with section 215 of the Social Security Act using the employee's railroad compensation after 1950 (or after 1936, if a higher PIA would result) as if it were social security earnings. The RLS PIA is computed just like the retirement Tier I PIA described in subpart B of this part, except that social
security earnings are not used to compute the RLS PIA.

# Subpart D—Delayed Retirement Credits
§ 225.30
General.
(a) A delayed retirement credit (DRC) is a percentage increase in a PIA. An employee who would have an insured status in accordance with section 214(a) of the Social Security Act based on combined railroad and social security earnings can earn DRC's. A DRC can be earned by the employee for each month, in or after the month of attaining full retirment age and before the month of attaining age 70 (72 before 1984), in which the employee does not receive either—
(1) An annuity because the employee did not apply for an annuity; or
(2) The tier I and vested dual benefit work deduction annuity components or the social security overall minimum annuity rate because they are not paid since the employee works and has earnings in excess of the exempt amount. (The tier I and vested dual benefit work deduction annuity components, the social security overall minimum annuity rate and the exempt amount are described in parts 226, 229 and 230 of this chapter, respectively.)
(b) Any credit earned by the employee also extends to the employee's widow(er), remarried widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse when he or she receives a survivor annuity that is based on age or disability.
(c) Credit earned by the employee does not extend to the employee's spouse or divorced spouse.
[54 FR 12903, Mar. 29, 1989, as amended at 68 FR 39010, July 1, 2003]
§ 225.31
PIA's to which DRC's are added.
(a) DRC's can be added to the following PIA's when used in computing the following benefits:
(1) Tier I PIA used in computing a retirement employee annuity.
(2) Overall Minimum PIA used in computing a retirement employee annuity.
(3) Survivor Tier I PIA used in computing a widow(er), remarried widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse annuity based on age or disability.
(4) Employee RIB PIA used in computing a widow(er), remarried widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse annuity based on age or disability.
(5) RLS PIA used in computing the amount of the residual lump-sum payable (as explained in part 234 of this chapter).
§ 225.32
DRC's and the Special Minimum PIA.
Delayed retirement credits cannot be added to the Special Minimum PIA. Delayed retirement credits can only be added to the regular PIA's used in computing the benefits outlined in § 225.31.
§ 225.33
Months for which DRC's are due.
(a) A DRC is due for each month after 1970 in which the employee is—
(1) Full retirement age or older and under age 70 (72 before 1984); and
(2) Fully insured under section 214(a) of the Social Security Act based on combined railroad and social security earnings; and either—
(i) Is not entitled to an annuity because he or she did not apply for an annuity; or
(ii) Is entitled to an annuity but has the full amount of the tier I and vested dual benefit work deduction component (described in part 226 of this chapter) or the social security overall minimum rate (described in part 229 of this chapter) withheld because of earnings in excess of the exempt amount (as explained in part 230 of this chapter).
(b) The months for which credit is due need not be consecutive.
[54 FR 12903, Mar. 29, 1989, as amended at 68 FR 39010, July 1, 2003]
§ 225.34
How the amount of the DRC is figured.
(a) The amount of the DRC depends on—
(1) The year the employee reaches full retirement age; and
(2) The number of months for which the credit is due, as explained in § 225.33.
(b) The percent given in paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is multiplied by the PIA; that product is then multiplied by the number of months
for which credit is due and rounded to the next lowest multiple of $0.10, if the answer is not already a multiple of $0.10. The result is the DRC which is added to the PIA.
(1)
Employee attained age 65 before 1982.
The DRC equals one-twelfth of one percent of the PIA times the number of months after 1970 in which the employee is age 65 or older and for which credit is due.
(2)
Employee attains age 65 after 1981 and before 1990.
The DRC equals one-fourth of one percent of the PIA times the number of months in which the employee is age 65 or older and for which credit is due.
(3) Employee attains age 65 in 1990 and before 2003.
(i) The rate of the DRC (one-fourth of one percent) is increased by one-twenty-fourth of one percent in each even year through 2002. Therefore, depending on when the employee attains age 65, the DRC percent will be as follows:
Year employee attains age 65
Delayed retirement credit percent
1990
7/24
of 1%.
1991
Do.
1992
1/3
of 1%.
1993
Do.
1994
3/8
of 1%.
1995
Do.
1996
5/12
of 1%.
1997
Do.
1998
11/24
of 1%.
1999
Do.
2000
1/2
of 1%.
2001
Do.
2002
13/24
of 1%.
(ii) The delayed retirement credit equals the appropriate percent of the PIA times the number of months in which the employee is age 65 or older and for which credit is due.
(4) Employee attains full retirement age in 2003 or later. The rate of the DRC (one-fourth of one percent) is increased by one-twenty-fourth of one percent in each even year through 2008. Therefore, depending on when the employee attains full retirement age, the DRC percent will be as follows:
Year employee attains full retirement age
Delayed retirement credit percent
2003
13/24
of 1%.
2004
7/12
of 1%.
2005
Do.
2006
5/8
of 1%.
2007
Do.
2008 and later
2/3
of 1%.
(c)
Example:
Mr. Jones was qualified for a full age and service annuity when he reached age 65 in January 1985, but decided not to apply for an annuity because he was still working. Mr. Jones stopped working on December 31, 1985, and applied for his annuity to begin January 1, 1986. Based on his earnings, his PIA was $350.50. Since Mr. Jones did not receive an annuity for the 12 months from the month in which he became 65 (January 1985) until the month following the month he stopped working (January 1986), he is due credit for each of those 12 months. The total amount of his DRC's is calculated as follows:
Percent
PIA
No. of months
Unrounded result
Total amount of DRC's
.25%
X
350.50
X
12
=
10.51
=
$10.50
Mr. Jones' PIA increase for DRC's is $361.00 (350.50 + 10.50).
[54 FR 12903, Mar. 29, 1989; 54 FR 21203, May 17, 1989, as amended at 68 FR 39010, July 1, 2003; 68 FR 43515, Aug. 1, 2003]
§ 225.35
When a PIA used in computing a retirement annuity can be increased for DRC's.
Delayed retirement credits earned at different times are added to the PIA used in computing a retirement annuity as follows:
DRC's earned for month in
Are added to PIA
Years before the year the employee annuity begins
On the date the annuity begins.
Year the annuity begins
On January 1 of the year after the annuity begins.
Years after the annuity begins, and before the year the employee attains age 70 (72 before 1984)
On January 1 of the year after the credits are earned.
Year the employee attains age 70 (72 before 1984)
In the month age 70 (or 72) is attained.
§ 225.36
Effect of DRC's on survivor annuities.
(a)
Widow(er), remarried widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse.
Delayed retirement credits that the employee earned are used in computing the tier I component of a widow(er), remarried widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse annuity. All DRC's, including credits earned in the year of death, can be used in computing the widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse annuity beginning with the month of death. Delayed retirement credits for months up to, but not including, the month of death are used.
(b)
Other survivor annuities.
Delayed retirement credits cannot be used in computing any other survivor annuity based on the deceased employee's record.

# Subpart E—Cost-of-Living Increases
§ 225.40
General.
A cost-of-living increase is an automatic increase in a PIA provided under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act. The Social Security Administration determines the percentage amount of any cost-of-living increase paid by the Board.
§ 225.41
How a cost-of-living increase is determined and applied.
Depending on the condition of the social security trust funds, the increase can be based on rises in either the consumer price index as published by the Department of Labor or the average wage index which is the average of the annual total wages used for computing a PIA. The increase is payable when the appropriate index for the third calendar quarter of one year shows an increase of at least three percent over the same index for the third calendar quarter of the previous year (or the last calendar quarter within which a legislated general benefit increase became effective). No increase is payable for the calendar year that immediately follows a year in which a legislated general benefit increase was effective. The increase amount is determined by multiplying the PIA by the percentage increase in the appropriate quarter of a previous year.
§ 225.42
Notice of the percentage amount of a cost-of-living increase.
The percentage amount of the cost-of-living increase is published in the
Federal Register
by the Secretary of Health and Human Services within 45 days of the end of the measuring period used in finding the increase.
§ 225.43
PIA's subject to cost-of-living increases.
The Retirement Tier I, Overall Minimum, Survivor Tier I, Employee RIB and RLS PIA's are adjusted for cost-of-living increases. The remaining PIA's described in subparts B and C of this part are frozen at the amounts determined under the Social Security Act as in effect on December 31, 1974.
§ 225.44
When a cost-of-living increase is payable.
A cost-of-living increase is payable beginning with December of the year for which the increase is due. The increase is paid in the January payment.

# Subpart F—Recomputing PIA's
§ 225.50
General.
After an annuitant begins receiving an annuity, the PIA's may be recomputed as explained in § 225.52. Most recomputations result in an increase in the PIA. The Board pays a recomputed PIA when an increase of at least $1 results. Most recomputations are processed automatically and require no action by the annuitant.
§ 225.51
PIA's that are subject to recomputation.
The following PIA's are subject to recomputation—
(a) Tier I PIA;
(b) Survivor Tier I PIA;
(c) Overall Minimum PIA;
(d) Employee RIB PIA; and
(e) Residual Lump-Sum PIA.
§ 225.52
Reasons for recomputing a PIA.
There are three major reasons for recomputing a PIA:
(a) Recomputation to consider additional earnings.
(b) Recomputation when an employee is eligible for periodic pension payments based on other than railroad or social security earnings.
(c) Recomputation to use a new or different PIA formula, as provided in section 215(f) of the Social Security Act.
§ 225.53
Recomputation to consider additional earnings.
(a)
Additional earnings that cause a recomputation
—(1)
Earnings not included in earlier computation or recomputation.
The most common reason for recomputing a PIA is to include earnings that were not used previously, as described in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4) of this section. The inclusion of these earnings may result in a revised Average Monthly Earnings or revised Average Indexed Monthly Earnings amount and, consequently, cause recomputation of the PIA.
(2)
Earnings in the year an employee becomes entitled to an age annuity or becomes disabled.
Earnings in the year an employee becomes entitled to an age annuity or becomes disabled are not used in the initial computation of the PIA. However, the Board does consider those earnings in a recomputation of the PIA and begins paying the higher benefits at the time described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3)
Earnings not reported in time to use them in the computation of the PIA.
Because of the way reports of earnings are made, the earnings an employee has in the year before he or she becomes entitled to an annuity, becomes disabled, or dies, might not be reported in time to use them in computing the PIA. The Board recomputes the PIA with the new earnings information and begins paying annuitants the higher benefits based on the additional earnings at the time described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(4)
Earnings after entitlement that are used in a recomputation.
Earnings for a year after an employee becomes entitled to an annuity are used in a recomputation of a PIA when the earnings are higher than those for a year used in the previous PIA computation.
(b)
Effective date of recomputation to consider additional earnings.
A PIA that is recomputed to include additional earnings becomes payable at the latest of the following times:
(1) Date the annuity begins.
(2) January of the year following the year an employee receiving an age annuity attains age 62.
(3) January of the year following the year an employee becomes disabled.
(4) January of the year following the year in which the earnings are earned.

# Example:
Mr. Jones, a railroad employee, becomes entitled to an age annuity in June 1986, at the age of 62. Although Mr. Jones has earnings of $23,000 in the first five months of 1986, those earnings cannot be used in the initial computation of the Tier I PIA. However, effective with January 1, 1987, the Tier I PIA is recomputed to include the earnings for 1986.
§ 225.54
Recomputation when an employee is eligible for periodic pension payments based on other than railroad or social security earnings.
(a)
Description.
This recomputation serves as a reduction in the PIA for entitlement to a periodic pension based, in part or in whole, on earnings after 1956 not covered under either the Social Security Act or the Railroad Retirement Act. A recomputation for a periodic pension is made in accordance with sections 215(a)(7) and 215(f)(9) of the Social Security Act. A recomputation affecting the Retirement Tier I, Overall Minimum, or Residual Lump-Sum PIA is required when all the following conditions exist—
(1) The employee has less than 30 years of coverage as defined in section 215(a) of the Social Security Act. The years of coverage include railroad and social security earnings;
(2) The employee becomes eligible for an annuity after 1985; and
(3) The employee becomes eligible for the periodic pension payments after 1985 based, in part or in whole, on earnings after 1956 not covered under either the Social Security Act or the Railroad Retirement Act.
(b)
Effective date of recomputation.
The Retirement Tier I, Overall Minimum or Residual Lump-Sum PIA is recomputed
when the employee becomes eligible for a periodic pension payment based on other than railroad or social security earnings. However, payment of the recomputed PIA is effective with the month in which the employee becomes entitled to the periodic pension.
§ 225.55
Recomputation to use a new or different PIA formula.
(a)
Description
—(1)
New computation formula.
If a new formula for computing or recomputing PIA's is enacted into law and the annuitant is eligible for the recomputation, the Board will recompute the PIA under the new formula.
(2)
Recomputation under different formula.
In some cases, a PIA may be recomputed under a computation formula different from the formula used in the computation (or earlier recomputation) of the PIA. The annuitant must be eligible for a computation or recomputation under the different formula.
(b)
Effective date of recomputation
—(1)
New computation formula.
A PIA recomputed under a newly enacted formula is effective with the month as directed in the legislation that establishes the new formula. The new PIA formula applies when it produces a PIA that is higher than the amount on which the existing annuity is based.
(2)
Different computation formula.
A PIA recomputed under a different formula is effective with the first month that the different formula produces a PIA that is higher than the PIA on which the existing annuity is based.
§ 225.56
Automatic recomputation.
Periodically, the Board reviews the earnings record of every retired, disabled and recently deceased employee to see if a recomputation of the PIA is necessary. When a recomputation is called for due to a change in the reported railroad or social security earnings, the Board processes it automatically. Increased benefits resulting from a recomputation are paid from the earliest month that the recomputation is effective. The annuitant does not have to request a recomputation to consider additional earnings, although the annuitant may request a recomputation before the automatic recomputation is processed. However, the effective date of the recomputation is the same, whether the recomputation is done automatically or at the request of the annuitant.
§ 225.57
Requesting a recomputation.
An annuitant who meets the conditions for a recomputation may request that his or her PIA be recomputed sooner than it would be recomputed automatically. Providing inclusion of the additional earnings increases the PIA, the Board will recompute the PIA from the earliest permissible date as described in this part.
§ 225.58
Waiver of recomputation.
If the employee or the employee's family are disadvantaged in any way by a recomputation of a PIA to consider additional earnings, a request can be made to waive or give up the right to the recomputation. Such a request must be in writing and be made by every entitled family member. A request for waiver of a recomputation applies only to that recomputation for which the request is made.

# Subpart G—Adjusting PIA's
§ 225.60
Adjustment at age 62 when employee is entitled to an annuity based on 30 years of railroad service.
(a)
Description.
The Tier I PIA of an employee who is entitled to an age annuity based on 30 years of railroad service is adjusted when the employee reaches age 62. The Average Indexed Monthly Earnings on which the PIA is based is adjusted by using the year in which the employee attains age 62 as the eligibility year. This adjustment applies to any employee who attained age 60 or acquired 30 years of railroad service after June 30, 1984. The adjustment affects the tier I of the employee and spouse annuity.
(b)
Effective date of adjustment.
A PIA adjustment based on the employee's attainment of age 62 is effective with the first full month in which the employee is age 62. For purposes of a spouse age annuity tier I, the adjusted PIA is used beginning with the first full month both the employee and spouse are age 62.
Pt. 226

# PART 226—COMPUTING EMPLOYEE, SPOUSE, AND DIVORCED SPOUSE ANNUITIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
226.1
Introduction.
226.2
Definitions.
226.3
Other regulations related to this part.

# Subpart B—Computing An Employee Annuity
226.10
Employee tier I.
226.11
Employee tier II.
226.12
Employee vested dual benefit.
226.13
Cost-of-living increase in employee vested dual benefit.
226.14
Employee regular annuity rate.
226.15
Deductions from employee regular annuity rate.
226.16
Supplemental annuity.

# Subpart C—Computing a Spouse or Divorced Spouse Annuity
226.30
Spouse or divorced spouse tier I.
226.31
Reduction for public pension.
226.32
Spouse tier II.
226.33
Spouse regular annuity rate.
226.34
Divorced spouse regular annuity rate.
226.35
Deductions from regular annuity rate.

# Subpart D—Railroad Retirement Family Maximum
226.50
General.
226.51
Maximum monthly amount.
226.52
Total annuity subject to maximum.

# Subpart E—Years of Service and Average Monthly Compensation
226.60
General.
226.61
Use of military service.
226.62
Computing average monthly compensation.
226.63
Determining monthly compensation.

# Subpart F—Reduction for Workers' Compensation and Disability Benefits Under a Federal, State, or Local Law or Plan
226.70
General.
226.71
Initial reduction.
226.72
Benefits that do not cause a reduction.
226.73
Changes in reduction amount.
226.74
Redetermination of reduction.

# Subpart G—Recomputation To Include Additional Railroad Service and Compensation
226.90
When recomputation applies.
226.91
How an employee annuity rate is recomputed.
226.92
Effect of recomputation on spouse and divorced spouse annuity.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f(b)(5).

# Source:
60 FR 22262, May 5, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 226.1
Introduction.
This part explains how employee, spouse, and divorced spouse annuities are computed. It describes how to determine the years of railroad service and average monthly compensation used in computing the employee annuity rate. The railroad retirement family maximum, cost-of-living increases, and the recomputation of an annuity to include additional railroad earnings are also explained in this part.
§ 226.2
Definitions.
Except as otherwise expressly noted, as used in this part—
Annuity
means a payment due an entitled individual for a calendar month and payable to him or her on the first day of the following month.
Eligible
means that an individual meets all the requirements for payment of an annuity but has not yet applied for one.
Employee
means an individual who is or has been in the service of an employer as defined in part 202 of this chapter.
Entitled
means that an individual has applied for and has established his or her rights to benefits.
Railroad Retirement Act
means the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, as amended.
Retirement age
means, with respect to an employee, spouse or divorced spouse who attains age 62 before January 1, 2000, age 65. For an employee, spouse or divorced spouse who attains age 62 after December 31, 1999, retirement age means the age provided for in section 216(l) of the Social Security Act.
Social Security Act
means the Social Security Act as amended.
§ 226.3
Other regulations related to this part.
This part is closely related to part 216 of this chapter, which describes
when an employee, spouse, or divorced spouse is eligible for an annuity, part 225 of this chapter, which explains the primary insurance amounts (PIA's) used in computing the employee, spouse and divorced spouse annuity rates, and part 229 of this chapter, which describes when and how employee and spouse annuities can be increased under the social security overall minimum. The creditable service and compensation used in determining the years of service and average monthly compensation are explained in parts 210 and 211 of this chapter. The beginning and ending dates of annuities are explained in part 218 of this chapter.

# Subpart B—Computing an Employee Annuity
§ 226.10
Employee tier I.
Tier I of an employee annuity is an amount similar to the social security benefit the employee would receive based on combined railroad and social security earnings. The tier I benefit is computed as follows:
(a) A tier I PIA is computed based on combined railroad and social security earnings, as shown in § 225.11 of this chapter. This PIA is adjusted for any delayed retirement credits or cost-of-living increases, as shown in subparts D and E of part 225 of this chapter, and is reduced for receipt of a pension based upon non-covered service in accordance with section 215(a)(7) of the Social Security Act. The tier I of a disability annuity may also be adjusted for other benefits based on disability, as shown in §§ 226.70-226.74 of this part. Except in the case of an employee who retires at age 60 with 30 years of service, if the result is not a multiple of $1, it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1. In the case of an employee who retires with an age reduced annuity based upon 30 years of service (see § 216.31 of this chapter) the tier I is not rounded until all reductions have been made.
(b) If the employee is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see § 216.31 of this chapter), the rate from paragraph (a) of this section is multiplied by a fraction for each month the employee is under retirement age on the annuity beginning date. The result is subtracted from the rate in paragraph (a) of this section. At present the fraction is
5/9
of 1% (or
1/180
). If the employee retires before age 62 with at least 30 years of service, the employee is deemed age 62 for age reduction purposes and a 20% reduction is applied. This reduction remains in effect until the first full month throughout which the employee is age 62, at which time the tier I is recomputed to reflect interim increases in the national wage levels and the age reduction factor is recomputed, if necessary, in accordance with this paragraph.
(c) The amount from paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is reduced by the amount of any monthly benefit payable to the employee under title II of the Social Security Act, including any social security benefit payable under a totalization agreement between the Social Security Administration and another country. The social security benefit used to reduce the tier I may be an age or disability benefit on the employee's own earnings record, a benefit based on the earnings record of another person, or the total of two types of benefits. The amount of the social security benefit used to reduce tier I is before any deduction for excess earnings. It is after any reduction for other benefits based on disability. The result cannot be less than zero.
(d) The tier I is subject to automatic annual increases as provided for in subpart E of part 225 of this chapter.

# Example:
An employee born on November 3, 1919, becomes entitled to an age annuity effective October 1, 1982. Retirement age for individuals born in 1919 is age 65. He has less than 30 years of service. His tier I PIA Is $712.60, which is rounded down to $712. Since the employee is 25 months under age 65 when his annuity begins, $712 is multiplied by
25/180
(
1/180
for each month under age 65), to produce an age reduction of $98.89, and a tier I rate after age reduction of $613.11. The employee is also entitled to a social security benefit of $190 a month. The employee's final tier I rate is $423.11.
§ 226.11
Employee tier II.
The tier II of an employee annuity is based only on railroad service. For annuities awarded after September 1981, the tier II benefit is computed as follows:
(a) The product obtained by multiplying the employee's creditable years of service by the average monthly compensation, determined as shown in subpart E of this part, is multiplied by seven-tenths of 1 percent (.007).
(b) If the employee is entitled to a vested dual benefit (see § 226.12 of this part), the result from paragraph (a) of this section is reduced by 25 percent of the vested dual benefit amount. This reduction is made before reduction of the tier II benefit for age. The result cannot be less than zero.
(c) If the railroad retirement family maximum applies, as shown in §§ 226.50-226.52 of this part, the amount from paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is reduced by the smaller of—
(1) The difference between the total railroad retirement maximum reduction amount and the reductions in the spouse and supplemental annuities; or
(2) The total tier II amount from paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(d) If the employee is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see § 216.31 of this chapter), the rate from paragraph (a) through (c) of this section is reduced in the same manner as the tier I as provided for in § 226.10 of this part. In the case of an employee with 30 years of service who is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see § 216.31 of this chapter), the age reduction only applies to the tier I component; no age reduction applies to the tier II component.
(e) The total tier II amount (paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section), is increased by 32.5 percent of the percentage increase in the cost-of-living increase to the tier I annuity component. Each cost-of-living increase is paid only to an employee whose annuity begins on or before the effective date of the increase. The increases are effective on the same date as any cost-of-living increase to the tier I annuity component.
§ 226.12
Employee vested dual benefit.
(a)
General.
An employee vested dual benefit is payable, in addition to tiers I and II, to an employee who meets one of the following requirements:
(1)
Employee worked in the railroad industry in 1974.
An employee who worked for a railroad in 1974 and retired after 1974 is considered vested if on December 31, 1974, he or she had both 10 years of railroad service and sufficient quarters of coverage under the Social Security Act to qualify for a social security benefit. An employee qualified on this basis is eligible for vested dual benefit amounts computed on his or her railroad and social security credits through December 31, 1974.
(2)
Employee who did not work for a railroad in 1974.
An employee who did not work in the railroad industry in 1974, but who had 25 or more years of railroad service before 1975 or a current connection with the railroad industry on December 31, 1974, as defined in part 216 of this chapter, or a current connection when he or she retired, is also considered vested under the same conditions as an employee who had worked in the railroad industry in 1974.
(3)
An employee who completed 10 years or more years of railroad service (but less than 25) before 1975 but left the industry before 1975 and did not have a current connection on December 31, 1974 or when he or she retired.
Such an employee is considered vested only if he or she had sufficient social security quarters of coverage to qualify for a social security retirement benefit as of the end of the year prior to 1975 in which he or she left the railroad industry. The vested dual benefit amount is based only on credits acquired through the last year of pre-1975 railroad service instead of through December 31, 1974.
(b)
Computation.
The employee vested dual benefit is computed as follows:
(1) The combined earnings dual benefit PIA is subtracted from the total of the railroad earnings dual benefit PIA and the social security earnings dual benefit PIA (see part 225 of this chapter for an explanation of these PIA's).
(2) The result from paragraph (b)(l) of this section is adjusted for any applicable cost-of-living increase, as shown in § 226.13 of this part.
(3) If the employee is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see § 216.1 of this chapter), the rate from paragraph (b)(2) of this section is reduced in the same manner as the tier I as provided for in § 226.10 of this part. In the case of an employee with 30 years of service who is entitled to an annuity reduced for age, the age reduction applies only to
the tier I component; no age reduction applies to the vested dual benefit.
(4) The vested dual benefit payable in a given year may also be reduced for insufficient funding as shown in part 233 of this chapter.

# Example:
An employee born on November 3, 1919, becomes entitled to an annuity including a vested dual benefit on October 1, 1982. His combined earnings dual benefit PIA is $254.90, his railroad earnings dual benefit PIA is $93.80, and his social security earnings dual benefit PIA is $244.70. The vested dual benefit before cost-of-living increase is $83.60 ($93.80 + $244.70 −$254.90 = $83.60). A cost-of-living increase of $67.72 (81 percent of $83.60. See § 226.13 of this part) results in a vested dual benefit of $151.32. Retirement age for a person born in 1919 is age 65. Since the employee is 25 months under age 65 when the annuity begins, $151.32 is multiplied by 25/180, to produce an age reduction of $21.02 and a vested dual benefit rate after age reduction of $130.30.
§ 226.13
Cost-of-living increase in employee vested dual benefit.
If the employee's annuity begins June 1, 1975 or later, a cost-of-living increase is added to the total vested dual benefit amount. This increase is based on the cost-of-living increases in social security benefits during the period from January 1, 1975, to the earlier of the date the employee's annuity begins or January 1, 1982. The increases are effective on June 1 of each year through 1981. The percentage increase for annuities that begin June 1, 1981, or later is 81 percent.
§ 226.14
Employee regular annuity rate.
The regular annuity rate payable to the employee is the total of the employee tier I, tier II, and vested dual benefit amounts, from §§ 226.10-226.12.
§ 226.15
Deductions from employee regular annuity rate.
The employee annuity as computed under this subpart may be reduced by premiums required for supplemental medicare coverage, income tax withholding, recovery of debts due the Federal government, garnishment pursuant to part 350 of the chapter and property awards as provided for in part 295 of this chapter.
§ 226.16
Supplemental annuity.
A supplemental annuity is payable in addition to tiers I and II and the vested dual benefit to an employee who meets the requirements of § 216.41 of this chapter. The supplemental annuity is equal to $23 plus $4 for each full year of service, over 25 years of service, up to a maximum of $43. The supplemental annuity may be reduced by the railroad retirement family maximum as shown in §§ 226.50-226.52 of this part, or for the receipt of a private pension benefit as explained in part 227 of this chapter.

# Subpart C—Computing a Spouse or Divorced Spouse Annuity
§ 226.30
Spouse or divorced spouse tier I.
(a)
General.
The tier I of a spouse or divorced spouse annuity is an amount similar to the social security benefit the spouse or divorced spouse would receive based on the employee's combined railroad and social security earnings. In the case of an employee who retires before age 62 with 30 years of service, the spouse tier I is simply 50% of the employee tier I until the first month throughout which both the employee and spouse are age 62 at which time the tier I is an amount similar to the social security benefit on the employee's combined railroad and social security earnings.
(b)
Reduction for other disability benefits.
The spouse or divorced spouse tier I may be adjusted for other disability benefits received by a disabled employee, as shown in §§ 226.70-226.74 of this part.
(c)
Reduction for government pension.
The amount in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section is reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of any government pension payable on the spouse's or divorced spouse's earnings record, as described in § 226.31 of this part.
(d)
Rounding.
The last tier I rate from paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this section, if not a multiple of $1, is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1. However, in cases in which the spouse is in receipt of an age reduced 60/30 annuity or in which the employee with 30 years of service began a disability annuity July 1, 1984, or later,
the spouse tier I is not rounded until all reductions have been made. See § 226.10(a).
(e)
Age reduction.
If the spouse or divorced spouse is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see §§ 216.51 and 216.52 of this chapter), the rounded tier I rate from paragraph (d) of this section is multiplied by a fraction for each month the spouse or divorced spouse is under retirement age on the date the annuity begins. The result is subtracted from the rate from paragraph (d) of this section. At present the fraction is
25/36
of 1% (or 1/144). In the case of an employee with 30 years of service who is awarded a disability annuity on July 1, 1984, or later, where the spouse does not have a child of the employee under age 18 in care, the spouse tier I is reduced for each month the spouse is under retirement age on the date the spouse annuity begins. If the spouse is age 60 or 61, he or she is deemed to be age 62 for purposes of the age reduction. The age reduction is applied before reduction for a government pension.
(f)
Reduction for social security benefit.
The previous tier I rate, from paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, is reduced by the amount of any monthly benefit payable to the spouse or divorced spouse under title II of the Social Security Act. The social security benefit used to reduce tier I may be an age or disability benefit on the spouse's or divorced spouse's own earnings record, a benefit based on the earnings record of another person, or the total of two types of benefits. The result cannot be less than zero.
(g)
Reduction for employee annuity.
If the spouse or divorced spouse is entitled to an employee annuity on his or her own wage record, the spouse or divorced spouse tier I is reduced for the spouse's own employee annuity as follows:
(1)
Spouse.
If either the employee or the spouse had some railroad service before 1975, the previous tier I rate from paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, whichever applies, is reduced (but not below zero) by the spouse's own employee tier I rate, as computed under § 226.10 of this part. If both the employee and spouse began railroad service after 1974, the spouse's total annuity rate, as shown in § 226.33, is reduced (but not below zero) by the spouse's own employee total annuity rate, as shown in § 226.14. These reductions are effective from the later of the date the employee or spouse annuity begins.
(2)
Divorced spouse.
The previous tier I rate from paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, whichever applies, is reduced (but not below zero) by the divorced spouse's own employee total annuity rate as shown in § 226.14.

# Example:
The computation of the spouse tier I may be illustrated as follows: A railroad employee's wife who was born on September 16, 1920, becomes entitled to a spouse annuity on October 1, 1982. She is also entitled to a social security benefit of $190 a month effective October 1, 1982. Her husband's employee tier I PIA is $712.60. The spouse tier I is $356.30 (50 percent of $712.60). This is rounded down to $356. Since she is 35 months under age 65, the present retirement age when the annuity begins, $356 is multiplied by 35/144, to produce an age reduction of $86.53 and a tier I rate after age reduction of $269.47. Her final tier I rate effective October 1, 1982, after reduction for social security benefits, is $79.47 ($269.47 −$190.00).
§ 226.31
Reduction for public pension.
(a) The tier I annuity component of a spouse/divorced spouse annuity, as described in the preceding sections of this part, is reduced if the spouse/divorced spouse is in receipt of a public pension.
(b)
When reduction is required.
Unless the spouse or divorced spouse annuity meets one of the exceptions in paragraph (d) of this section, the tier I annuity component is reduced each month the annuitant is receiving a monthly pension from a Federal, state, or local government agency (government pension), but excluding a pension paid by a government of a foreign country, for which he or she was employed in work not covered by social security on the last day of such employment. For purposes of this section, Federal government employees are not considered to be covered by social security if they are covered for Medicare but are not otherwise covered by social security.
(c)
Payment in a lump sum.
If the government pension is not paid monthly or is paid in a lump-sum payment, the Board will determine how much the
pension would be if it were paid monthly and then reduce the monthly railroad retirement annuity accordingly. The number of years covered by a lump-sum payment and thus the period when the annuity will be reduced, will generally be clear from the pension plan. If one of the alternatives to a lump-sum payment is a life annuity, and the amount of the monthly benefit for the life annuity can be determined, the reduction will be based on that monthly benefit amount. Where the period or the equivalent monthly pension benefit is not clear, it may be necessary for the Board to determine the reduction period on an individual basis.
(d)
Exceptions.
The reduction does not apply:
(1) If the annuitant is receiving a government pension based on employment for an interstate instrumentality; or
(2) If the annuitant receives or is eligible to receive a government pension for one or more months in the period December 1977 through November 1982 and he or she meets the requirements for social security benefits that were applied in January 1977 (even though he or she did not actually claim such benefits nor become entitled to such benefits until a later month). The January 1977 requirements are, for a man, a one-half support test (see paragraph (e) of this section), and, for a woman claiming benefits as a divorced spouse, marriage for at least 20 years to the insured worker. A person is considered eligible for a government pension for any month in which he or she meets all the requirements for payment except that he or she is working or has not applied; or
(3) If the annuitant was receiving or eligible (as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section) to receive a government pension for one or more months before July 1983, and he or she meets the one-half support test (see paragraph (e) of this section). If the annuitant meets the exception in this paragraph but he or she does not meet the exception in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, December 1982 is the earliest month for which the reduction will not affect his benefits; or
(4) If the annuitant has been eligible for a government pension in a given month except for a requirement which delayed eligibility for such pension until the month following the month in which all other requirements were met, the Board will consider the annuitant to be eligible in that given month for the purpose of meeting one of the exceptions in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section. If the annuitant meets an exception solely because of this paragraph, his or her benefits will be unreduced for months after November 1984 only.
(e)
The one-half support test.
For a man to meet the January 1977 requirement as provided in the exception in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and for a man or a woman to meet the exception in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, he or she must meet a one-half support test. One-half support is defined in part 222 of this chapter. One-half support must be met at one of the following times:
(1) If the employee upon whose compensation the spouse or divorced spouse annuity is based had a period of disability, as defined in part 220 of this chapter, which did not end before he or she became entitled to an age and service or disability annuity, the spouse/divorced spouse annuitant must have been receiving at least one-half support from the employee either—
(i) At the beginning of the employee's period of disability; or
(ii) At the time the employee became entitled to an age and service or disability annuity.
(2) If the employee upon whose compensation the spouse or divorced spouse annuity is based did not have a period of disability, as defined in part 220 of this chapter, at the time of his or her entitlement, the spouse or divorced spouse annuitant must have been receiving at least one-half support from the employee at the time the employee became entitled to an age and service or disability annuity.
(f)
Amount of reduction.
(1) If the spouse/divorced spouse annuitant becomes eligible for a government pension after June 1983, the Board will reduce (to zero, if necessary) the tier I annuity component by two-thirds of the amount of the monthly pension. If the amount of the reduction is not a
multiple of 10 cents, it will be rounded to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(2) If the spouse/divorced spouse annuitant became eligible for a government pension before July 1983 and he or she did not meet one of the exceptions in paragraph (d) of this section, the Board will reduce (to zero, if necessary) the tier I component by the full amount of the pension for months before December 1984 and by two-thirds the amount of his or her monthly pension for months after November 1984. If the amount of the reduction is not a multiple of 10 cents, it will be rounded to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(g)
Reduction not applicable.
This reduction is not applied to claimants who both filed and were entitled to a spouse benefit prior to December 1977.
§ 226.32
Spouse tier II.
The spouse tier II benefit is computed as follows:
(a) The employee's tier II amount as computed under § 226.11 of this part, after any reduction for entitlement to a vested dual benefit but before reduction for the railroad retirement family maximum, is multiplied by 45 percent. The spouse tier II is recomputed if the employee's tier II rate is reduced for entitlement to a vested dual benefit after the beginning date of the spouse annuity.
(b) If tier I of a spouse annuity is reduced for the spouse's employee annuity, as provided for in § 226.30(g) of this part, the reduction is restored in tier II. The restored amount is payable on the effective date of the spouse or the employee tier I benefit, whichever is later. The previous tier II rate is increased by the restored amount, which is determined as follows:
(1)
Initial restored amount.
The restored amount is the amount by which the spouse tier I was reduced by reason of receipt of an employee annuity on the date the restored amount is first payable. The restored amount is only payable if either the employee or spouse had railroad service prior to 1975.
(2)
Recomputation of restored amount.
The restored amount is recomputed if the spouse becomes entitled to a government pension, a social security benefit, or a different type of social security benefit after the date the initial restored amount is effective. The recomputed amount is the amount by which the spouse tier I is reduced by reason of receipt of an employee annuity on the effective date of the entitlement to a government pension or social security benefit.
(3)
Cost-of-living increase in restored amount.
If an initial or recomputed restored amount is effective before the effective date of the cost-of-living increase shown in paragraph (e) of this section, the restored amount is multiplied by the percentage increase that applies. The result is added to the restored amount on the effective date of the increase for each year that the increase is payable.
(c) If the employee's tier II has been reduced pursuant to section 3(g)(2) of the Railroad Retirement Act (takeback provision) the spouse tier II is reduced by one half of the “takeback” in the employee tier II.
(d) If the railroad retirement family maximum applies, as shown in §§ 226.50-226.52 of this part, the spouse tier II rate, as determined in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, is reduced by the smaller of—
(1) The total railroad retirement maximum reduction amount; or
(2) The previous spouse tier II rate.
(e) The tier II rate, from paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, is increased by the same percentage as the employee tier II increase described in § 226.11(e) of this part.
(f) If the spouse is entitled to a reduced age annuity (see § 216.51 of this chapter), the tier II rate, as determined in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section is reduced in the same manner as the tier I as provided for in § 226.30(e) of this part.

# Example:
An employee's tier II rate is $329.63 effective October 17, 1981. The spouse rate is $148.33 (45 percent × $329.63) effective October 17, 1981. This is increased to $151.89 effective June 1, 1982, by a cost-of-living increase of 2.4 percent. The spouse is 35 months under age 65, the present retirement age, when the annuity begins. The $151.89 rate is multiplied by
35/144
to produce an age reduction of $36.92. This is subtracted from $151.89 to produce a final rate of $114.97.
§ 226.33
Spouse regular annuity rate.
The final tier I and tier II rates, from §§ 226.30 and 226.32, are added together to obtain the total spouse regular annuity rate.
§ 226.34
Divorced spouse regular annuity rate.
The regular annuity rate of a divorced spouse is equal to his or her tier I amount. The divorced spouse is not entitled to a tier II benefit.
§ 226.35
Deductions from regular annuity rate.
The regular annuity rate of the spouse and divorced spouse annuity may be reduced by premiums required for supplemental medicare coverage, income tax withholding (spouse annuity only), recovery of debts due the Federal government, and garnishment pursuant to part 350 of this chapter.

# Subpart D—Railroad Retirement Family Maximum
§ 226.50
General.
There is a monthly ceiling on total family benefits which limits the amount of certain portions of the employee and spouse annuity. This railroad retirement family maximum amount varies according to the employee's earnings in the ten-year period that ends with the year in which his or her annuity begins. If the employee and spouse annuity amounts described in § 226.52 of this part are higher than the maximum from § 226.51 of this part, first the spouse tier II, then the supplemental annuity and, finally, the employee tier II are reduced until the total annuity amount is equal to the maximum or until the spouse tier II and the employee supplemental annuity and tier II have been reduced to zero, whichever comes first. The reduction for the railroad retirement family maximum is first computed from the date the employee's annuity begins. It is recomputed if the employee's tier II rate is reduced for entitlement to a vested dual benefit. It is also recomputed if a workers' compensation or other disability benefit begins or ends, or the employee's tier I benefit or supplemental annuity begins after the beginning date of the regular employee annuity. Finally, it is recomputed if a spouse who was entitled to an annuity divorces the employee or the spouse annuity entitlement ends.
§ 226.51
Maximum monthly amount.
The railroad retirement family maximum is equal to an employee's “final average monthly compensation” (FAMC) up to
1/2
of
1/12
of the annual maximum tier I earnings as shown in part 224 of this chapter in the year the annuity begins plus 80 percent of so much of his or her FAMC as exceeds
1/2
of
1/12
of the tier I maximum in the year the annuity begins. For this purpose, the FAMC is determined by dividing the individual's total earnings up to the tier II earnings limit as shown in part 211 of this chapter for the two highest-earnings years out of the last 10 calendar years, including the year of retirement, by 24. The railroad retirement maximum cannot be more than the FAMC and cannot be less than $1,200.

# Example:
An employee's annuity begins on December 2, 1982. He has yearly earnings that exceed the tier II annual maximum of $24,300 in 1982 and $22,200 in 1981. The FAMC is the sum of the tier II maximum for 1981 and 1982 divided by 24 ($24,300 + $22,200 ÷ 24) or $1,937.50. The maximum which may be credited to a month for tier I in 1982 is $2,700. The family maximum is $1,350 (
1/2
of
1/12
of the annual tier I maximum) plus $470 (80% of the difference between $1,937.50 and $1,350) or $1,820.
§ 226.52
Total annuity subject to maximum.
The total annuity amount which is compared to the maximum monthly amount to determine if a reduction for the railroad retirement family maximum applies is determined by adding together the amounts in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. A hypothetical spouse annuity amount is included from the beginning date of the employee annuity if the spouse is not entitled to an annuity at the time the maximum calculation is made.
(a)
Employee annuity amounts.
The following amounts are added together—
(1) The employee tier I amount, effective on the date the employee's tier I benefit begins or, if later, on the date a
reduction for other disability benefits begins or ends, as shown in § 226.71 of this part. This amount is before any reduction for age or social security benefits but after including any delayed retirement credits, after any reduction for other disability benefits, and after rounding; and
(2) The employee tier II rate before reduction for the railroad retirement family maximum, effective on the employee's annuity beginning date and, if later, on the date the tier II is first reduced for a vested dual benefit, as shown in § 226.11 of this part; and
(3) The initial supplemental annuity rate effective on the date the supplemental annuity begins, before any reduction for a private pension, as shown in part 227 of this chapter.
(b)
Spouse annuity amounts.
The following amounts are added together—
(1) The spouse tier I amount, which is or would be effective on the date the employee's annuity or tier I benefit begins, as shown in § 226.30. This amount is before any reduction for other disability benefits, age, or social security benefits, but after any reduction for a government pension or employee annuity; and
(2) The spouse tier II rate which is or would be effective on the employee's annuity beginning date, the date the employee's tier I benefit begins, or the date the employee's tier II rate is reduced for a vested dual benefit, as shown in § 226.11. This rate includes the restored amount but does not include any cost-of-living increase in the tier II original rate or restored amount. It is the rate before reduction for the railroad retirement family maximum or age minus any cost-of-living increases.

# Subpart E—Years of Service and Average Monthly Compensation
§ 226.60
General.
The years of service and average monthly compensation used in computing an employee's tier II annuity rate are based on the employee's creditable railroad service and compensation as described in parts 210 and 211 of this chapter. In computing the average monthly compensation, the compensation for each year cannot be higher than twelve times the tier II monthly maximum creditable for that year, as described in part 211 of this chapter.
§ 226.61
Use of military service.
(a)
Claim for use of military service.
An employee is deemed to have filed a claim for the use of military service and earnings as service and compensation under the Railroad Retirement Act if—
(1) The employee indicates on the annuity application or another signed statement that he or she has military service;
(2) The employee does not specifically request that the military service be credited as wages under the Social Security Act;
(3) The military service is creditable under the Railroad Retirement Act, as shown in part 212 of this chapter; and
(4) Using the military service as railroad service and compensation would be to the employee's advantage (the employee and his or her family would receive higher total benefits than if the military service were credited under the Social Security Act).
(b)
Effective date for use of military service.
Military service can be used as service and compensation under the Railroad Retirement Act starting with the date the annuity begins but no earlier than twelve months before the employee files an application or statement showing that he or she has military service.
§ 226.62
Computing average monthly compensation.
The employee's average monthly compensation is computed by first determining the employee's highest 60 months of railroad compensation (disregarding compensation in excess of the maximum creditable tier II compensation for that year). The total of the highest 60 months is then divided by 60 to determine the average monthly compensation.
§ 226.63
Determining monthly compensation.
(a)
Based on yearly compensation.
If Board records do not show monthly compensation for a year, the monthly compensation is determined by dividing the total compensation reported for the year by the number of months of
service credited to the employee for that year.
(b)
For employee with government employment and no railroad service for 60-month period before annuity begins
—(1)
General.
The compensation used in determining the average monthly compensation (AMC) is indexed for an employee who has not worked in the railroad industry for the 60-month period before the month the employee's annuity begins and whose major employment during that period was for a government agency listed in § 216.16 of this chapter. The compensation is indexed by multiplying it by the quotient obtained by dividing the average annual wage for the indexing year by the average annual wage for the year being indexed. If the month for which compensation is being indexed is before 1951, the average annual wage for 1951 is used.
(2)
Indexing year defined.
The indexing year is the second year before the year in which the annuity begins.

# Subpart F—Reduction for Workers' Compensation and Disability Benefits Under a Federal, State, or Local Law or Plan
§ 226.70
General.
For any month an employee disability annuitant is entitled to workers' compensation or a public disability benefit, the tier I benefit of the spouse or divorced spouse is reduced due to receipt of such benefits. (If both spouse and divorced spouse annuities are payable, the reduction amount is divided and applied in equal amounts to both the spouse and divorced spouse tier I benefits.) The employee tier I is reduced by the difference between the total reduction amount, described in § 226.71 of this part, and the reduction in the spouse and divorced spouse tier I benefits.
§ 226.71
Initial reduction.
(a)
When reduction is effective.
A reduction for other disability benefits begins with the first month the employee is receiving both a disability annuity and workers' compensation or a public disability benefit. The reduction ends with the month before the month in which the employee becomes 65 years old or with the month in which the workers compensation or public disability benefit ends.
(b)
Amount of reduction.
The reduction for other disability benefits equals the difference between—
(1) The total tier I rates of the employee, spouse, and divorced spouse, before any reductions (age, public pension, social security benefits, etc.) plus the monthly amount of the workers' compensation of public disability benefit; and
(2) The higher of—
(i) Eighty percent of the employee's average current earnings, as defined in this section; or
(ii) The total tier I rates, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

# Example 1:
Harold is entitled to a monthly disability annuity with a tier I component of $507 and a monthly public disability benefit of $410 from the state. Eighty percent of Harold's average current earnings is $800. Because this amount is higher than Harold's tier I component, to determine the reduction for other disability benefits the Board subtracts this amount ($800) from the total of Harold's tier I component ($507) and public disability benefit ($410) which results in a reduction amount of $117 ($917-$800). This leaves Harold with a reduced tier I amount of $390 ($507-$117).

# Example 2:
Tom is entitled to a disability annuity with a tier I component of $560. His wife and divorced wife are both entitled to annuities with tier I components of $280 each. Total benefits are $1,120. Tom is receiving a monthly workers' compensation benefit of $500 from the state. Eighty percent of Tom's average current earnings is $820. Because the total benefit ($1,120) is higher than Tom's average current earnings, to determine the reduction for other disability benefits the Board subtracts this amount from $1,620 ($1,120 plus $500) which results in a reduction amount of $500. This means that the tier I of the spouse and divorced spouse annuity are each reduced by $250.
(c)
Average current earnings, defined.
An employee's “average current earnings” is the highest of—
(1) The average monthly wage (AMW) used to compute the tier I AMW PIA. (The earnings are not indexed, even if the tier I PIA which is being paid is based on average indexed monthly earnings. See part 225 of this chapter.); or
(2) One-sixtieth of the employee's total earnings covered under either the
Social Security or Railroad Retirement Acts (including earnings that exceed the maximum earnings used in computing social security benefits) for the five consecutive years after 1950 in which the employee had the highest earnings. The result, if not a multiple of $1, is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1; or
(3) One-twelfth of the employee's total earnings covered under either the Social Security or Railroad Retirement Acts (including earnings that exceed the maximum earnings used in computing social security benefits) for the year of highest earnings in the period which includes the year in which the employee became disabled and the five preceding years. The result, if not a multiple of $1, is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.
§ 226.72
Benefits that do not cause a reduction.
The tier I is not reduced for the following types of benefits:
(a) A benefit paid under a law or plan that provided, on February 18, 1981, for reducing the benefit for entitlement to a disability insurance benefit under the Social Security Act.
(b) A Federal disability benefit based on service for other than a state or local government, if all or part of that service is covered under the Social Security Act.
(c) A disability benefit paid by the Federal government or a state or local government based on state or local employment, if all or substantially all of that employment is covered under the Social Security Act. “Substantially all” means 85 percent or more of the employment.
(d) A benefit paid by the Veteran's Administration.
(e) Private disability benefits.
(f) Amounts paid under the Federal Employers' Liability Act (FELA).
(g) Benefits based on need, such as welfare benefits or supplemental security income.
§ 226.73
Changes in reduction amount.
The reduction amount is not changed when a tier I benefit increases because of a recomputation or a general adjustment in annuity rates, such as a cost-of-living increase. However, the reduction amount may change for the following reasons:
(a)
A spouse or divorced spouse becomes entitled to a tier I benefit after the effective date of the reduction.
The reduction amount is recomputed as if the spouse or divorced spouse were entitled to a tier I benefit on the date the reduction first applied. The new reduction amount applies beginning with the date the spouse or divorced spouse tier I benefit begins.

# Example:
An employee became entitled to an annuity with a tier I component of $500 on May 1, 1991. He was also receiving a state disability benefit of $300 a month based on employment not covered under the Social Security Act. On June 1, 1991, the employee's tier I increased to $520.70. On October 1, 1991, the employee's wife becomes entitled to an annuity with a tier I benefit of $260.00. The tier I amount ($250) that would have been payable to the wife on May 1, 1991 (assuming she had been eligible for a benefit at that time) is used to determine the reduction for other disability benefits beginning October 1, 1991.
(b)
The tier I benefit of a spouse or divorced spouse annuity ends after the effective date of the reduction.
The new reduction amount is computed using the tier I rate to which the employee was entitled when the reduction first applied. The new reduction amount applies beginning with the month after the month in which the spouse or divorced spouse tier I benefit ends.
(c) The average current earnings are redetermined, as shown in § 226.74.
(d)
The amount of the other disability benefit changes.
The reduction amount is recomputed to use the new benefit rate beginning with the date on which the new rate is payable. Any increases in the tier I amounts which were effective after the reduction first applied are not included in computing the new reduction amount.

# Example:
The employee's tier I benefit is $500 on May 1, 1991, when the annuity is first reduced for other disability benefits. The tier I increases to $520 effective June 1, 1991. When the amount of the disability benefit changes on October 1, 1991, $500, not $520, is used as the employee tier I amount in recomputing the reduction amount.
§ 226.74
Redetermination of reduction.
(a)
General.
The average current earnings are redetermined in the second year after the year the reduction
for other disability benefits was first applied and every third year after that. The redetermined amount is used only if it results in a lower reduction amount. The new reduction amount is effective with January of the year after the redetermination is made.
(b)
Redetermined average current earnings.
The average current earnings are redetermined by multiplying the initial average current earnings amount by—
(1) The average of the total wages (including wages that exceed the maximum used in computing social security benefits) of all persons for whom wages were reported to the Secretary of the Treasury for the year before the year of redetermination, divided by the average of the total wages reported to the Secretary of the Treasury for 1977 or, if later, the year before the year for which the reduction was first computed. If the result is not a multiple of $1, it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1; or
(2) If the reduction was first computed before 1978, the average of all taxable wages reported to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for the first quarter of 1977, divided by the average of all taxable wages reported to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for the first quarter of the year before the year for which the reduction was first computed. If the result is not a multiple of $1, it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.

# Subpart G—Recomputation To Include Additional Railroad Service and Compensation
§ 226.90
When recomputation applies.
An employee's annuity may be recomputed to include additional railroad service and compensation and social security wages which the employee earns after the beginning date of the employee annuity. The annuity is recomputed only if the recomputation increases the annuity rate by more than $1 a month or results in a lump-sum payment of more than $5. Before a recomputed rate can be paid, the employee must stop working in the railroad industry. A recomputed tier I component is payable beginning with January 1 of the year after the year in which the wages or compensation are earned or (provided the employee is age 62 or disabled), in the case of railroad compensation, in the year after the employee stops working in the railroad industry. A recomputed tier II component is payable from the date the annuity is reinstated after the employee has ceased railroad work.
§ 226.91
How an employee annuity rate is recomputed.
(a)
Tier I.
A recomputation is made if any social security wages or railroad compensation for a year in which the employee returned to work are higher than the earnings for a year included in the previous computation of the tier I PIA, as shown in part 225 of this chapter. The higher earnings are used instead of the lower earnings for the earlier year to determine the average monthly wage or average indexed monthly earnings. Part 225 of this chapter describes how a PIA is recomputed.
(b)
Tier II.
The additional service is added to the years of service previously used in computing the tier II rate. The additional compensation is used to recompute the average monthly compensation, if the compensation for a month in which the employee returned to railroad service is higher than the compensation for a month used in the previous computation of the average monthly compensation. The higher monthly compensation is used instead of the lower compensation for a previous month to determine the new average monthly compensation as shown in § 226.62 of this part. The increased years of service and average monthly compensation are used in computing a new tier II rate, as shown in § 226.11 of this part.

# Example:
An employee receiving an annuity which began on January 1, 1992, returns to railroad service for 10 months in 1992 and 2 months in 1993. He stops work on February 20, 1993. He has earnings of $34,500.00 in 1992 and $5,200.00 in 1993. His tier II rate effective January 1, 1992, was based on 26 years (312 months) of service and an average monthly compensation of $2,995 ($179,700 ÷ 60). The additional 12 months of service increases the year of service used in computing the tier II rate to 27 (312 months + 12 months = 324 months ÷ 12 = 27). The 1992 earnings of $34,500.00 are used instead of 1987 earnings of
$32,700.00. The 1993 earnings are not used because they are lower than the earnings for previous months used in computing the average monthly compensation. The additional $1,800.00 in earnings increases the average monthly compensation to $3,025 ($179,100 + $1,800.00 = $181,500.00 ÷ 60). The initial tier II amount is increased from $545.09 (26 × $2,995 × .007) to $571.73 (27 × $3,025 × .007), effective with the date of annuity reinstatement, March 1, 1993.
§ 226.92
Effect of recomputation on spouse and divorced spouse annuity.
The annuity of a spouse or divorced spouse is recomputed to use the employee's recomputed tier I PIA and tier II rate, if the recomputation results in a lump-sum payment of more than $5 or an increase in the spouse or divorced spouse annuity rate of more than $1 a month. The spouse or divorced spouse annuity rate is recomputed beginning with the same date the employee's annuity rate is recomputed.
Pt. 227

# PART 227—COMPUTING SUPPLEMENTAL ANNUITIES
Sec.
227.1
Introduction.
227.2
Initial supplemental annuity rate.
227.3
Reduction for railroad retirement family maximum.
227.4
Reduction for employer pension.
227.5
Employer tax credits.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f(b)(5).

# Source:
50 FR 11502, Mar. 22, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 227.1
Introduction.
This part explains how to compute a supplemental annuity. A supplemental annuity is payable to an employee who meets the requirements in § 216.12 of this chapter.
§ 227.2
Initial supplemental annuity rate.
The supplemental annuity rate, before reduction for the railroad retirement family maximum or any private pension, is $23 for an employee's first 25 years of service plus $4 for each added year of service up to 30 years. The highest supplemental annuity rate is $43 for an employee with 30 or more years of service.
§ 227.3
Reduction for railroad retirement family maximum.
If the railroad retirement family maximum applies, and the reduction amount is higher than the spouse tier II rate, as shown in part 226 of this chapter, the initial supplemental annuity rate from § 227.2 is reduced by the smaller of—
(a) The difference between the total railroad retirement maximum reduction amount and the reduction in the spouse annuity; or
(b) The total supplemental annuity rate from § 227.2.
[50 FR 11502, Mar. 22, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 12903, Mar. 29, 1989]
§ 227.4
Reduction for employer pension.
(a)
General.
The supplemental annuity for each month is reduced by the amount of any private pension the employee is receiving for that month based on the contributions of a railroad employer. This reduction is applied to the supplemental annuity amount after any reduction for railroad retirement family maximum. Private pension is explained in § 216.14 of this chapter.
(b)
Private pension reduced for supplemental annuity.
If the employer reduces the private pension for the employee's entitlement to the supplemental annuity, the reduced pension amount is subtracted from the supplemental annuity. However, the reduction in the supplemental annuity can be no greater than the difference between the supplemental annuity amount, after any reduction for railroad retirement family maximum, and the amount the private pension is reduced for the supplemental annuity. This guarantees that the sum of the reduced supplemental annuity and the reduced employer pension is not less than the amount of the full employer pension.

# Example:
The full employer pension is $80. This is reduced by $35 because of the employee's entitlement to a supplemental annuity. The initial supplemental annuity rate is $43.
Full employer pension
$80
Reduction for supplemental annuity
−35
Reduced pension amount
45
Supplemental annuity
43
Reduced pension amount
−45
0
Guarantee amount:
Supplemental annuity
43
Reduction in private pension
−35
8
Supplemental annuity
43
Reduction in private pension
−8
Reduced supplemental annuity
35
The reduced supplemental annuity amount is $35. This amount plus the reduced employer pension of $45 equals $80, the full amount of the employer pension.
(c)
Part of private pension based on employee contributions.
If the employer pension is based on both employer and employee contributions, a special formula is used to determine the amount to be subtracted from the supplemental annuity. The Board first computes the pension amount the employee's contributions could have purchased from a private insurance company. That amount is subtracted from the total employer pension. The result is the pension amount used to reduce the supplemental annuity.
§ 227.5
Employer tax credits.
Employers are entitled to tax credits if they pay non-negotiated pensions to former employees whose supplemental annuities are reduced because of the pensions. Non-negotiated pensions are paid under pension plans that are not established by collective bargaining agreements. The tax credits for each month equal the sum of the reductions for employer pensions in the supplemental annuities of all former employees for that month. The Board sends a report of total tax credits to each employer after the end of each calendar quarter. The credits are applied to the man-hour supplemental annuity tax the employer pays the Internal Revenue Service under section 3221 of the Railroad Retirement Tax Act.
Pt. 228

# PART 228—COMPUTATION OF SURVIVOR ANNUITIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
228.1
Introduction.
228.2
Tier I and tier II annuity components.

# Subpart B—The Tier I Annuity Component
228.10
Computation of the tier I annuity component for a widow(er), disabled widow(er), remarried widow(er), and a surviving divorced spouse.
228.11
Computation of the tier I annuity component of a widow(er) with a child in care, remarried widow(er) with a child in care, or a surviving divorced spouse with a child in care.
228.12
Computation of the tier I annuity component of a child's insurance annuity.
228.13
Computation of the tier I annuity component of a parent's insurance annuity.
228.14
Family maximum.
228.15
Reduction for age.
228.16
Adjustments in the age reduction factor (ARF).
228.17
Adjustments to the widow(er)'s, disabled widow(er)'s, surviving divorced spouse's, and remarried widow(er)'s tier I annuity amount.
228.18
Reduction for public pension.
228.19
Reduction for a social security benefit.
228.20
Reduction for an employee annuity.
228.21
Entitlement as a spouse or divorced spouse and as a survivor.
228.22
Entitlement to more than one survivor annuity.
228.23
Priority of reductions.
228.40
Cost of living increase applicable to the tier I annuity component.

# Subpart C—The Tier II Annuity Component
228.50
Tier II annuity component widow(er), child, or parent.
228.51
Takeback amount.
228.52
Restored amount.
228.53
Spouse minimum guarantee.
228.60
Cost-of-living increase.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f.

# Source:
60 FR 16368, Mar. 30, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 228.1
Introduction.
(a)
What does this part include?
This part includes the computation of a widow(er)'s, disabled widow(er)'s, remarried widow(er)'s, surviving divorced spouse's, parent's, and child's insurance annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act. This part describes the two annuity components or tiers which are included in these annuities. The tier I annuity component, which may be payable in all of the above annuities, is described in subpart B of this
part. Subpart C of this part describes the tier II annuity component which is only applicable to the widow(er)'s, disabled widow(er)'s, parent's, and child's annuity.
(b)
Other relevant parts.
(1) Part 225, Primary Insurance Amount Determinations, describes the various types of primary insurance amounts which form the basis of the computation of the tier I annuity component described in this part.
(2) Part 216, Eligibility for an Annuity, describes the eligibility requirements for receipt of the annuity computations described in this part.
§ 228.2
Tier I and tier II annuity components.
(a)
Tier I annuity component.
The Tier I annuity component is generally the amount that would have been payable under the Social Security Act if all of the employee's earnings after 1936 under both the railroad retirement system and the social security system had been creditable under the Social Security Act.
(b)
Tier II annuity component.
The tier II annuity component is the portion of the survivor's annuity which is based on an employee's railroad earnings only. The tier II component of an annuity described in this part is a specified percentage of the employee's actual or anticipated tier II annuity component.

# Subpart B—The Tier I Annuity Component
§ 228.10
Computation of the tier I annuity component for a widow(er), disabled widow(er), remarried widow(er), and a surviving divorced spouse.
The tier I annuity component for these beneficiaries is generally based on the survivor tier I Primary Insurance Amount (PIA). The survivor tier I PIA is determined in accordance with section 215 of the Social Security Act using the deceased employee's combined railroad and social security earnings after 1950 (or after 1936 if a higher PIA would result) up to the maximum creditable amounts through the year of the employee's death. See part 225 of this chapter. This amount may be further adjusted for certain reductions or deductions as described in §§ 228.15-228.20 of this part and is subject to the family maximum. See § 228.14 of this part.
§ 228.11
Computation of the tier I annuity component of a widow(er) with a child in care, remarried widow(er) with a child in care, or a surviving divorced spouse with a child in care.
The tier I annuity component of a widow(er), remarried widow(er), or a surviving divorced spouse with a child of the employee in his or her care is 75 percent of the PIA computed under § 228.10 of this part. The amount may be adjusted for certain reductions and deductions described in §§ 228.15-228.20 of this part and is subject to the family maximum. See § 228.14 of this part.
§ 228.12
Computation of the tier I annuity component of a child's insurance annuity.
The tier I annuity component of a child's insurance annuity is 75 percent of the PIA computed under § 228.10 of this part. The amount may be adjusted for the family maximum. See § 228.14 of this part.
§ 228.13
Computation of the tier I annuity component of a parent's insurance annuity.
The tier I annuity component of a parent's insurance annuity is dependent on whether one or two parents are entitled.
(a)
One parent entitled.
A parent's tier I annuity component is equal to 82
1/2
percent of the PIA computed under § 228.10 of this part.
(b)
More than one parent entitled.
A parent's tier I annuity component is equal to 75 percent of the PIA computed under § 228.10 of this part.
(c) The amounts computed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may be adjusted for the family maximum. See § 228.14 of this part.
§ 228.14
Family maximum.
(a)
Family maximum defined.
Under the Social Security Act, the amount of total monthly benefits that can be paid for any month on one person's earnings record is limited. This limited amount is called the family maximum. The
family maximum is based on the survivor tier I PIA (see part 225 of this chapter). Generally, if three or more persons are entitled to benefits, their benefits will be adjusted for the family maximum.
(b)
Computation of the family maximum
—(1)
The employee attains age 62, has a period of disability or dies prior to 1979.
The maximum is the amount appearing in column V of the applicable table published each year by the Secretary of Health and Human Services on the line on which appears in column IV the primary insurance amount of the insured individual whose compensation is the basis for the benefits payable. Where the total of the survivor benefits exceeds the maximum, the total tier I benefits for each month after 1964 are reduced to the amount appearing in column V. Each survivor's benefit is proportionately reduced, based on the percentage of the PIA used to compute the survivor benefits. However, when any of the persons entitled to benefits on the insured individual's compensation would, except for the limitation described in § 404.353(b) of title 20 (dealing with the entitlement to more than one child's benefit), be entitled to a child's annuity on the basis of the compensation of one or more other insured individuals, the total benefits payable may not be reduced to less than the smaller of—
(i) The sum of the maximum amounts of benefits payable on the basis of the compensation of all such insured individuals, or
(ii) The last figure in column V of the applicable table published each year by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The “applicable table” refers to the table which is effective for the month the benefit is payable.
(2)
The employee attains age 62, has a period of disability or dies in 1979.
The maximum is computed as follows:
(i) 150 percent of the first $230 of the individual's primary insurance amount, plus
(ii) 272 percent of the primary insurance amount over $230 but not over $332, plus
(iii) 134 percent of the primary insurance amount over $332 but not over $433, plus
(iv) 175 percent of the primary insurance amount over $433.
If the total of this computation is not a multiple of $0.10, it will be rounded to the next lower multiple of $0.10.
(3)
The employee attains age 62, or has a period of disability or dies after 1979.
The maximum is computed as in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. However, the dollar amounts shown there will be updated each year after 1979 as average earnings rise. This updating is done by first dividing the average of the total wages for the second year before the individual dies or becomes eligible, by the average of the total wages for 1977. The result of that computation is then multiplied by each dollar amount in the formula in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each updated dollar amount will be rounded to the nearer dollar, if the amount is an exact multiple of $0.50 (but not of $1), it will be rounded to the next higher $1. Before November 2 of each calendar year after 1978, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will publish in the
Federal Register
the formula and updated dollar amounts to be used for determining the monthly maximum for the following year.
(c)
Special minimum PIA.
Regardless of the method used to compute the primary insurance amount, if the special minimum primary insurance amount described in § 404.261 to this title is higher, then the family maximum will be based upon the special minimum primary insurance amount.
§ 228.15
Reduction for age.
(a)
Widow(er), surviving divorced spouse, or remarried widow(er).
The tier I annuity component is reduced
19/40
of 1 percent multiplied by the number of months before the annuitant attains full retirement age (presently age 65) effective with the annuity beginning date for widow(ers) born before 1/2/40. (For widow(ers) born after 1/1/40, see section 216(l) of the Social Security Act.)
(b)
Disabled widow(er), disabled surviving divorced spouse, or disabled remarried widow(er).
The tier I annuity component is reduced for a maximum of 60 months even though the annuity may begin at age 50.
§ 228.16
Adjustments in the age reduction factor (ARF).
Upon the attainment of retirement age, the previously-computed age reduction factor is adjusted to remove those months for which a full annuity was not paid even though the individual was entitled.
§ 228.17
Adjustments to the widow(er)'s, disabled widow(er)'s, surviving divorced spouse's, and remarried widow(er)'s tier I annuity amount.
(a) If the employee died before attaining age 62 and after 1978 and the widow(er), disabled widow(er), remarried widow(er), or surviving divorced spouse is first eligible after 1984, the Board will compute the tier I annuity amount as if the employee had not died but had reached age 62 in the second year after the indexing year (see § 225.2 of this chapter);
provided, however,
that if the employee was entitled to a primary insurance amount based on average monthly wages this section is not applicable. The indexing year is never earlier than the second year before the year of the employee's death. Except for this limitation it is the earlier of__
(1) The year the employee attained age 60, or would have attained age 60 had the employee lived, and
(2) The second year before the year in which the widow(er), remarried widow(er), or surviving divorced spouse becomes eligible for such an annuity, has attained age 60, or is age 50-59 and disabled.
(b) The tier I annuity component is increased if the employee's annuity was increased or would have been increased based on delayed retirement credits (see § 225.36 of this chapter).
(c) The tier I annuity component is reduced if the employee had been entitled to an age reduced annuity, including an annuity based on 30 years of service, which is reduced for age because it began before the employee attained age 62. In this instance, the widow(er)'s, remarried widow(er)'s, or surviving divorced spouse's tier I annuity component after applying any reduction for age is further reduced to the larger of amount the employee would have received as a tier I annuity component if still alive or 82
1/2
percent of his or her primary insurance amount.
§ 228.18
Reduction for public pension.
(a) The tier I annuity component of a widow(er), remarried widow(er), surviving divorced spouse, or disabled widow(er) annuity, as described in the preceding sections of this part, is reduced if the survivor is in receipt of a public pension.
(b)
When reduction is required.
Unless the survivor annuitant meets one of the exceptions in paragraph (d) of this section, the tier I annuity component is reduced each month the survivor annuitant is receiving a monthly pension from a Federal, State, or local government agency (Government pension) for which he or she was employed in work not covered by social security on the last day of such employment. For purposes of this section, Federal government employees are not considered to be covered by social security if they are covered for Medicare but are not otherwise covered by social security, or if they are covered under social security solely by an election to become subject to the Federal Employees and Retirement System made after December 31, 1987, and have not worked 60 months under that system.
(c)
Payment in a lump sum.
If the Government pension is not paid monthly or is paid in a lump-sum payment, the Board will determine how much the pension would be if it were paid monthly. If one of the alternatives to a lump-sum payment is a life annuity, and the amount of the monthly benefit for the life annuity can be determined, the reduction will be based on that monthly benefit amount. Where the period for the equivalent monthly pension benefit is not clear, it may be necessary for the Board to determine the reduction period on an individual case basis.
(d)
Exceptions.
The reduction does not apply:
(1) If the survivor is receiving a Government pension based on employment for an interstate instrumentality; or
(2) If the survivor receives or is eligible to receive a Government pension for one or more months in the period December 1977 through November 1982 and he or she meets the requirements for social security benefits that were
applied in January 1977, assuming the employee's earnings had been covered under that Act (even though he or she did not actually claim such benefits or become entitled for such benefits until a later month). The January 1977 requirements are, for a man, a one-half support test (see paragraph (e) of this section), and, for a woman claiming benefits as a surviving divorced spouse, marriage for at least 20 years to the insured worker. A person is considered eligible for a Government pension for any month in which he or she meets all the requirements for payment except that he or she is working or has not applied; or
(3) If a survivor annuitant was receiving or eligible (as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section) to receive a Government pension for one or more months before July 1983, and he or she meets the one-half support test (see paragraph (e) of this section). If a survivor annuitant meets the exception in this paragraph but he or she does not meet the exception in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, December 1982 is the earliest month for which the reduction will not affect his benefits; or
(4) If a survivor annuitant was eligible for a Government pension in a given month except for a requirement which delayed eligibility for such pension until the month following the month in which all other requirements were met, the Board will consider the annuitant to be eligible in that given month for the purpose of meeting one of the exceptions in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section. If an annuitant meets an exception solely because of this paragraph, his or her benefits will be unreduced for months after November 1984 only.
(e)
The one-half support test.
For a man to meet the January 1977 requirement as provided in the exception in paragraph (d)(2) of this section and for a man or a woman to meet the exception in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, he or she must meet a one-half support test. One-half support is defined in part 222 of this chapter. One-half support must be met at one of the following times:
(1) If the employee upon whose compensation the survivor annuity is based had a period of disability which did not end before he or she became entitled to an age and service or disability annuity, or died, the survivor annuitant must have been receiving at least one-half support from the employee—
(i) At the beginning of his or her period of disability; or
(ii) At the time he or she became entitled to an age and service or disability annuity; or
(iii) At the time of his or her death.
(2) If the employee upon whose compensation the survivor annuity is based did not have a period of disability at the time of his or her entitlement or death, the survivor annuitant must have been receiving at least one-half support from the employee—
(i) At the time he or she became entitled to an age and service annuity or disability annuity; or
(ii) At the time of his or her death.
(f)
Amount of reduction.
(1) If a survivor annuitant becomes eligible for a Government pension after June 1983, the Board will reduce (but not below zero) the tier I annuity component by two-thirds of the amount of the monthly pension. If the amount of the reduction is not a multiple of 10 cents, it will be rounded to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(2) If a survivor annuitant became eligible for a Government pension before July 1983 and he or she did not meet one of the exceptions in paragraph (d) of this section, the Board will reduce (but not below zero) the tier I component by the full amount of the pension for months before December 1984 and by two-thirds the amount of his or her monthly pension for months after November 1984. If the amount of the reduction is not a multiple of 10 cents, it will be rounded to the next higher multiple of 10 cents.
(g)
Reduction not applicable.
This reduction is not applied to claimants who both filed and were entitled to benefits prior to December 1977.
§ 228.19
Reduction for a social security benefit.
The tier I annuity component is reduced for the amount of any social security benefit to which the survivor annuitant is entitled.
§ 228.20
Reduction for an employee annuity.
(a)
General.
If an individual is entitled to an annuity as a survivor, and is also entitled to an employee annuity, then the survivor annuity must be reduced by the amount of the employee annuity. However, this reduction does not apply (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section) if the survivor or the individual upon whose earnings record the survivor annuity is based worked for a railroad employer or as an employee representative before January 1, 1975.
(b)
Tier I reduction.
If an individual is entitled to an annuity as a survivor, then the tier I component of the survivor annuity must be reduced by the amount of the tier I component of the employee annuity after reduction for age. Where the survivor is entitled to a tier II component and either the survivor or the employee had railroad earnings before 1975, a portion of this reduction may be restored in the computation of the tier II component (see § 228.52 of this part).
§ 228.21
Entitlement as a spouse or divorced spouse and as a survivor.
If an individual is entitled to both a spouse or divorced spouse and survivor annuity, only the larger annuity will be paid. However, if the individual so chooses, he or she may receive the smaller annuity rather than the larger annuity.
§ 228.22
Entitlement to more than one survivor annuity.
If an individual is entitled to more than one survivor annuity, only the larger annuity will be paid. However, if the individual so chooses, he or she may receive the smaller annuity rather than the larger annuity.
§ 228.23
Priority of reductions.
The tier I component of the survivor annuity is first reduced by the family maximum, if applicable, then any applicable age reduction, then by any public pension offset, then by any social security benefit payable, then by the tier I component of any employee annuity payable to the survivor annuitant.
§ 228.40
Cost of living increase applicable to the tier I annuity component.
The tier I annuity component of a survivor annuity is increased at the same time and by the same percentage as the increase provided for under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act. The amount of the increase is published in the
Federal Register
annually. The cost-of-living increase is payable beginning with the benefit for the month of December of the year for which the increase is due. The increase is paid in the January payment.

# Subpart C—The Tier II Annuity Component
§ 228.50
Tier II annuity component widow(er), child, or parent.
(a)
General.
The tier II annuity component is an additional amount payable to a widow(er), disabled widow(er), child, or parent, but not to a surviving divorced spouse or remarried widow(er), and a parent as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, based on the railroad employee's earnings in the railroad industry. Unlike the tier I annuity component it is not reduced for any other social insurance benefit except a railroad retirement annuity. See §§ 228.20-228.23 of this part.
(b)
Amount of the tier II annuity component (1981 amendment)
—(1)
Widow(er) or disabled widow(er).
The amount of a widow(er)'s or disabled widow(er)'s tier II annuity component is 50 percent of the amount of the employee's tier II which would have been payable in the month in which the widow became entitled had the employee been alive and in receipt of an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act at that time.
(2)
Parent.
The amount of a parent's tier II annuity component is 35 percent of the amount of the employee's tier II annuity component which would have been payable in the month in which the parent became entitled had the employee been alive and in receipt of an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act at that time. However, if another survivor is entitled, or potentially entitled, to a tier II annuity component, the parent tier II annuity component is zero.
(3)
Child.
The amount of each child's tier II annuity component is 15 percent of the employee's tier II annuity component which would have been payable in the month in which the child became entitled had the employee been alive and in receipt of an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act at that time.
(c)
Minimum tier II survivor annuity components.
If the total tier II annuity components payable to survivors is less than 35 percent of the employee's tier II annuity component which would have been payable in the month the survivors became entitled had the employee been alive and in receipt of an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act at that time, the individual tier II annuity components computed in paragraph (b) of this section shall be increased proportionally so that the total of all such tier II annuity components equals 35 percent of the employee's tier II annuity component.
(d)
Maximum tier II annuity components.
If the total tier II survivor annuity components payable to survivors exceeds 80 percent of the employee's tier II annuity component which would have been payable in the month the survivors became entitled had the employee been alive and entitled to an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act at that time, the individual tier II annuity components computed in paragraph (b) of this section shall be reduced proportionally so that the total of all such tier II annuity components totals no more than 80 percent of the employee's tier II annuity component.
(e)
Age reduction.
The tier II annuity component of a widow(er) or disabled widow(er) is subject to reduction by the same age reduction factor as is applicable to the tier I annuity component. See § 228.15 of this part.
§ 228.51
Takeback amount.
(a) The 1983 amendments to the Railroad Retirement Act provided that a portion of the cost-of-living increases payable on the tier I annuity component be offset from the amount of the tier II annuity. This amount is the takeback amount. The amount of the takeback and its application depends on the employee and survivor's annuity beginning dates.
(b)(1) The tier II takeback amount for survivors whose annuity beginning date is January 1, 1984 or later is usually the amount of the employee's takeback amount. That amount is equal to 5 percent of the employee's primary insurance amount, less all applicable reductions (net tier I), on November 1, 1983. However, if the employee's annuity was reduced for a social security benefit but the survivor's annuity is not, the takeback amount is the amount the employee's annuity would have been reduced for the takeback if the employee's annuity had not been reduced for a social security benefit. If the employee's annuity had not been tiered or was being paid under the overall minimum, the Board will compute the amount of the tier II takeback that would have been applicable to the employee's annuity.
(2) The tier II takeback amount for survivors whose annuity beginning date is before January 1, 1984 is equal to 5 percent of the survivor's net tier I annuity component, before deduction on account of work, on November 1, 1983.
(3) The tier II takeback will be applied in accord with the above paragraphs in any case where the employee died or retired before January 1, 1984. If the employee died or retires after December 31, 1983, or the employee never retired and dies after December 31, 1993, no takeback will be applied to the survivor's annuity.
(c) No takeback is applied if the survivor tier II annuity amount before the takeback is applied is $10.00 or less and cost-of-living increases have not increased the tier II annuity amount to more than $10.00 (the takeback may never reduce the tier II to an amount less than $10.00).
§ 228.52
Restored amount.
(a)
General.
A restored amount is added to the tier II annuity component of a widow(er)'s annuity whose annuity is reduced for receipt of an employee annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act provided either the employee or the widow(er) had ten years of creditable railroad service prior to January 1, 1975.
(b)
Amount.
The amount of the tier II restored amount for a widow(er) is the
difference between the amount payable as a widow(er) under the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937 as increased by all annual social security cost-of-living percentage increases from January 1, 1975, until the later of the annuity beginning date of either the employee's annuity or the widow(er)'s annuity and the amount payable to the widow(er) under the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 under the rules set forth in this part.
(c)
Widower.
In order to qualify for an annuity under the 1937 Act and thus for a restored amount, a widower must have been dependent on his spouse for at least 50 percent of his support in the year prior to her death or at the time the spouse's annuity began.
§ 228.53
Spouse minimum guarantee.
The Railroad Retirement Act provides that a spouse should receive no less as a widow(er) than he or she received as a spouse. However, if the widow(er) becomes entitled to a social security benefit, thus reducing his or her annuity, the spouse minimum guarantee is payable only to the extent that it guarantees the amount that the widow(er) would have received as a spouse had he or she been entitled to a social security benefit in the month preceding the employee's death in an amount equal to the amount of the social security benefit payable at the time the widow(er) first became entitled to the social security benefit.
§ 228.60
Cost-of-living increase.
The tier II annuity component of a survivor annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act is increased by 32.5 percent of the percentage increase under section 215(i) of the Social Security Act at the same time that any such increase is payable. The amount of the increase is published in the
Federal Register
annually. The cost-of-living is payable beginning with the benefit payable for the month of December of the year for which the increase is due. The increase is paid in the January payment. In addition, in determining the amount of the tier II component at the time the survivor annuity begins, all cost-of-living increases that were applied or would have been applied after the employee's annuity beginning date or death and prior to the surviving annuity beginning date are taken into consideration.
Pt. 229

# PART 229—SOCIAL SECURITY OVERALL MINIMUM GUARANTEE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
229.1
Introduction.
229.2
Definitions.
229.3
Other regulations related to this part.
229.4
Applying for the overall minimum.

# Subpart B—Social Security Overall Minimum Guarantee Defined
229.10
What the social security overall minimum guarantee is.
229.11
100 percent overall minimum.

# Subpart C—Eligibility for Increase Under the Overall Minimum
229.20
When an employee is eligible for an increase under the overall minimum.
229.21
When a spouse is eligible for an increase under the overall minimum.
229.22
Beginning date of increase under overall minimum.

# Subpart D—Family Members Included in Overall Minimum Computation
229.30
Who can be included in the computation of an annuity under the overall minimum.
229.31
When a spouse can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate.
229.32
When a child can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate.
229.33
When a divorced spouse can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate.

# Subpart E—When Entitlement Under the Overall Minimum Ends
229.40
When an annuity increase under the overall minimum ends.
229.41
When a spouse can no longer be included in computing an annuity rate under the overall minimum.
229.42
When a child can no longer be included in computing an annuity rate under the overall minimum.
229.43
When a divorced spouse can no longer be included in computing an annuity under the overall minimum.

# Subpart F—Computation of the Overall Minimum Rate
229.45
Employee benefit.
229.46
Spouse or divorced spouse benefit.
229.47
Child's benefit.
229.48
Family maximum.
229.49
Adjustment of benefits under family maximum for change in family group.
229.50
Age reduction in employee or spouse benefit.
229.51
Adjustment of age reduction.
229.52
Age reduction when a reduced age O/M is effective before DIB O/M.
229.53
Reduction for social security benefits on employee's wage record.
229.54
Reduction for social security benefit paid to employee on another person's earnings record.
229.55
Reduction for spouse social security benefit.
229.56
Reduction for child's social security benefit.
229.57
Reduction in spouse overall minimum benefit for employee annuity.
229.58
Rounding of overall minimum amounts.

# Subpart G—Reduction for Worker's Compensation or Disability Benefits Under a Federal, State, or Local Law or Plan
229.65
Initial reduction.
229.66
Changes in reduction amount.
229.67
Redetermination of reduction.
229.68
Reduction of DIB O/M.

# Subpart H—Miscellaneous Deductions and Reductions
229.80
Earnings restrictions.
229.81
Refusual to accept vocational rehabilitation.
229.82
Failure to have child in care.
229.83
Deportation.
229.84
Conviction of subversive activities.
229.85
Substantial gainful activity by blind employee or child.

# Subpart I—Payment of Overall Minimum Rate
229.90
Proportionate shares of overall minimum.
229.91
Payment of the overall minimum for part of a month.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231(f)(b)(5).

# Source:
58 FR 53397, Oct. 15, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 229.1
Introduction.
This part explains when an annuity can be increased under the social security overall minimum guarantee, also sometimes referred to as the “special guaranty”, and how the increased amount is determined. Deductions and reductions in the overall minimum rate are explained.
§ 229.2
Definitions.
The following definitions are used in this part:
Annuity
means a payment under the Railroad Retirement Act due and payable to an entitled claimant for a calendar month and made to him or her on the first day of the following month. The recipient of an annuity is called an annuitant.
Average Indexed Monthly Earnings or AIME
means the average of the employee's monthly creditable earnings in both railroad and social security covered employment in the years used in computing the Primary Insurance Amount, after the earnings are adjusted or “indexed”. The indexing is a means of expressing prior years earnings in terms of their current dollar value. It is based on increases in the average wages of all wage earners from 1951 although the second year before the year the worker dies or becomes eligible for benefits.
Contribution and benefit base
means the maximum earnings used in computing a social security benefit under section 230 of the Social Security Act.
1974 Act
means the Railroad Retirement Act approved October 16, 1974, including all amendments.
Railroad formula rate
means the amount computed in accord with the regular railroad computations (sections 3(a), 3(b) and 3(h) of the Railroad Retirement Act).
Retirement age
means age 65, with respect to an employee or spouse who attains age 62 before January 1, 2000 (age 60 in the case of a widow(er), remarried widow(er) or surviving divorced spouse). For an employee or spouse who attains age 62 (or age 60 in the case of a widow(er), remarried widow(er), or surviving divorced spouse) after December 31, 1999, retirement age means the age provided for in section 216(l) of the Social Security Act.
§ 229.3
Other regulations related to this part.
This part is related to a number of other parts of this chapter (listed numerically):
Part 216 describes when a person is eligible for an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act.
Part 217 describes how to apply for an annuity or for lump-sum payments.
Part 218 sets forth the beginning and ending dates of annuities.
Part 219 sets out what evidence is necessary to prove eligibility and the relationships described in this part.
Part 220 describes when a person is eligible for a disability annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act or a period of disability under the Social Security Act.
Part 222 describes the family relationships which may cause an annuity to be increased under this part.
Part 225 explains how Primary Insurance Amounts (PIA's) are computed.
§ 229.4
Applying for the overall minimum.
The Board may require an annuitant to provide information regarding his or her family and regarding his or her earnings from employment and self-employment in order to determine whether the claimant or annuitant qualifies for the overall minimum.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0083)

# Subpart B—Social Security Overall Minimum Guarantee Defined
§ 229.10
What the social security overall minimum guarantee is.
The social security overall minimum guarantee is the amount of total family benefits which would be paid under the Social Security Act if the employee's railroad service had been covered by that Act. A 100 percent overall minimum benefit may be paid, as described in § 229.11. A 100 percent overall minimum based on age (age O/M) may be payable when the employee is 62 years old. The age O/M is reduced for age for months in which the O/M is payable before the employee attains retirement age. An overall minimum may also be payable before age 62 based on an employee's disability (DIB O/M). The DIB O/M is not reduced for age.
§ 229.11
100 percent overall minimum.
Section 3(f)(3) of the 1974 Act guarantees that the total annuities payable to the employee and spouse, including the vested dual benefits but not including a supplemental annuity, will not be less than 100 percent of the total family benefits payable under the Social Security Act if the employee's railroad service after 1936 were credited as social security earnings. Subpart F describes how the 100 percent overall minimum rate is computed.

# Subpart C—Eligibility for Increase Under the Overall Minimum
§ 229.20
When an employee is eligible for an increase under the overall minimum.
(a)
Overall minimum based on age.
An employee annuity can be increased under the age O/M if all the following conditions are met:
(1) The employee is entitled to an age or disability annuity as shown in part 216 of this chapter.
(2) The employee is at least 62 years old throughout the whole month. The O/M is reduced for each month it is payable before the month the employee attains retirement age.
(3) The employee is fully insured under section 214 or 227 of the Social Security Act based on railroad and social security earnings.
(b)
Overall minimum based on disability.
An employee annuity can be increased under the DIB O/M if the employee is under retirement age, and
(1) Is entitled to an age or disability annuity; and
(2) Is disabled under § 404.1505 of this title; and
(3) Is insured for a disability benefit under § 404.130 of this title based upon combined railroad and social security earnings.
(c)
Spouse with child in care or spouse retirement age or older.
If the employee has not attained the age required to qualify the spouse for a spouse annuity but the employee meets the conditions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the employee annuity can be increased under the overall minimum if:
(1) The employee and spouse complete the required statements concerning the family and earnings as provided for in § 229.4 of this part; and
(2) The spouse meets the marriage requirements as provided for in part 222 of this chapter; and
(3) The spouse has an eligible child in care, or the spouse is retirement age or older.
(d)
Spouse election.
If the employee has not attained the age required to quality the spouse for a spouse annuity but the employee meets the conditions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the employee annuity can be increased under the overall minimum if:
(1) The employee and spouse complete the required statements concerning the family and earnings as provided for in § 229.4 of this part; and
(2) The spouse meets the marriage requirements as provided for in part 222 of this chapter; and
(3) The spouse is between age 62 and retirement age and does not have a child in care; and
(4) The spouse files an election to be included.
§ 229.21
When a spouse is eligible for an increase under the overall minimum.
Normally, only the employee annuity receives the amount of the overall minimum increase. However, a spouse annuity may be increased under the O/M in cases in which the O/M benefit amount exceeds the total amount of the employee and spouse annuity.
§ 229.22
Beginning date of increase under overall minimum.
(a)
Employee age O/M.
An increase under the overall minimum in an employee annuity based on age can be paid beginning with the later of:
(1) The first day of the first full month throughout which the employee is age 62; or
(2) The beginning date of the employee's age or disability annuity; or
(3) The first month of the quarter in which the employee becomes insured under section 214 or 227 of the Social Security Act based on railroad and social security earnings; or
(4) The month the employee attains retirement age, if a DIB O/M was paid in the previous month. A DIB O/M is changed to an age O/M in the month the employee attains retirement age.
(b)
Employee DIB O/M.
An increase under the overall minimum in an employee annuity based on disability can be paid beginning with the later of—
(1) The beginning date of the employee's disability annuity; or
(2) The month after the month in which the disability waiting period described in § 404.315(d) of this title ends; or
(3) If no disability waiting period is required, the first month in which the employee is disabled and is insured for a disability benefit under § 404.130 of this title.
(c)
Spouse.
An increase in a spouse annuity under the overall minimum can be paid on the later of:
(1) The date the increase in the employee's annuity is paid; or
(2) The date the spouse is both eligible under the O/M and entitled to a spouse annuity.

# Subpart D—Family Members Included in Overall Minimum Computation
§ 229.30
Who can be included in the computation of an annuity under the overall minimum.
(a)
Spouse.
In order to be included as a spouse in the computation of the overall minimum rate, a person must be the employee's wife or husband, as defined in part 222 of this chapter, as of the date described in § 229.31 of this part. The spouse must also be 62 years or older throughout the whole month in which he or she is first included or have the employee's child who is under 16 years old or disabled (before attaining age 22) in his or her care. If a spouse is 62 years old or older and under retirement age, and does not have an eligible child in his or her care, the spouse will be included only if he or she requests the payment of a reduced spouse annuity.
(b)
Child.
In order to be included as a child in the computation of the overall minimum, a person must meet the following requirements as of the date described in § 229.32 of this part. The person must be:
(1) The employee's child as defined in part 222 of this chapter; and
(2) Dependent on the employee, as shown in part 222 of this chapter; and
(3) Not married; and either
(4) Under 18 years old, or 18 years old to 19 years old and a full-time student, as defined in part 216 of this chapter, or 18 years old or older and disabled for any regular employment (see part 220 of this chapter) before attaining age 22.
(c)
Divorced spouse.
In order to be included as a divorced spouse in the computation of the overall minimum, a person must be eligible for a benefit as a divorced spouse under the Railroad Retirement Act as of the date described in § 229.33 of this part.
§ 229.31
When a spouse can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate.
(a) A spouse who is married to the employee when the employee's application is filed can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate beginning in the later of the month in which:
(1) The employee first is eligible for an increase in his or her annuity under the overall minimum, as shown in § 229.22 of this part; or
(2) The spouse first becomes eligible to be included under the overall minimum, as shown in § 229.30 of this part.
(b) A spouse who marries the employee after the employee application is filed can be included in the overall minimum computation in the month in which he or she becomes eligible, as shown in § 229.30 of this part, if the overall minimum rate is already payable in the previous month. If the railroad formula rate is payable in the month before the spouse becomes eligible, the spouse can be included in the overall minimum computation in the later of the month in which:
(1) The employee first is eligible for an increase in his or her annuity rate under the overall minimum, as shown in § 229.22; or
(2) The spouse annuity begins.
§ 229.32
When a child can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate.
A child who meets the requirements of § 229.30(b) of this part can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate in the month in which:
(a) The employee first is eligible for an increase in his or her annuity rate under the overall minimum, as shown in § 229.22 of this part; or
(b) In the case of a child born or adopted by the employee after the employee's annuity beginning date, such child can be included only when the overall minimum rate is already payable in the month before the month in which the child is born, or adopted except where:
(1) The child is born or adopted prior to the employee's attaining age 62 or becoming eligible for a period of disability (see § 220.36 of this chapter); or
(2) The child who is adopted after the employee's annuity beginning date meets the dependency requirements set forth in § 222.53 of this chapter.
(c) In the case of a child who has attained age 18 and has become re-entitled as a full-time student or disabled child, as described in § 229.30 of this part, such child can only be included when the overall minimum rate is already payable in the month before the month the child becomes re-entitled.
§ 229.33
When a divorced spouse can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate.
A divorced spouse annuitant can be included in the computation of the overall minimum rate in the later of the month in which:
(1) The employee first is eligible for an increase in his or her annuity rate under the overall minimum, as shown in § 229.22; or
(2) The divorced spouse annuity begins.

# Subpart E—When Entitlement Under the Overall Minimum Ends
§ 229.40
When an annuity increase under the overall minimum ends.
(a)
Employee Age O/M.
An increase in an employee's annuity under the overall minimum based on age ends with the month before the month in which the employee dies. If a disability annuity is increased under the overall minimum based on age rather than disability, and the employee is under retirement age, the increase ends with
the second month after the month the disability ends as shown in part 220 of this chapter.
(b)
Employee DIB O/M.
An increase in an employee's annuity under the overall minimum based on disability ends with the earlier of:
(1) The month before the month in which the employee dies; or
(2) The month before the month the employee attains retirement age (the DIB O/M is changed to an age O/M); or
(3) The second month after the month the disability ends, as explained in part 220 of this chapter.
(c)
Spouse.
An increase in a spouse annuity under the overall minimum ends when the increase in the employee annuity ends, as shown in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, when the spouse can no longer be included in computing the annuity rate under the overall minimum as shown in § 229.41 of this part, or when the spouse annuity ends as shown in part 218 of this chapter.
§ 229.41
When a spouse can no longer be included in computing an annuity rate under the overall minimum.
A spouse's inclusion in the computation of the overall minimum rate ends the earlier of:
(a) The month before the month in which the spouse dies; or
(b) The month before the month in which the spouse's marriage to the employee legally terminates; or
(c) If the spouse has an eligible child in care, the earlier of the month before the month in which the child leaves the spouse's care, attains age 16 and is not disabled, or, if disabled, recovers from being disabled; or
(d) The month before the month the employee dies.
§ 229.42
When a child can no longer be included in computing an annuity rate under the overall minimum.
A child's inclusion in the computation of the overall minimum rate ends the earlier of:
(a) The month before the month in which the child dies; or
(b) The month before the month in which the child marries; or
(c) The month before the month the child becomes 18 years old, unless the child is disabled or a full-time student, as shown in part 216 of this chapter; or
(d) The second month after the month the child's disability ends, if the child is 18 years old or older, and not a full-time student; or
(e) The month in which a student child's annuity would end, as shown in part 218 of this chapter, if the child is 18 years old or older, a full-time student in an elementary or secondary school, and not disabled; or
(f) The month before the month the child becomes entitled to an overall minimum benefit or child's annuity on another earning record, if including the child on the other earnings record would result in higher monthly benefits; or
(g) In the case of a stepchild of the employee, the month after the month in which the divorce between the stepparent and the natural parent becomes final.
[58 FR 53397, Oct. 15, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 47138, Sept. 8, 1997]
§ 229.43
When a divorced spouse can no longer be included in computing an annuity under the overall minimum.
A divorced spouse's inclusion in the computation of the overall minimum rate ends the earlier of:
(a) The month before the month in which the divorced spouse dies; or
(b) The month before the month the employee dies; or
(c) The month before the month in which the divorced spouse remarries; or
(d) The month before the month in which the divorced spouse becomes entitled to a retirement or disability benefit under the Social Security Act based upon a primary insurance amount which is equal to or exceeds the divorced spouse annuity before reduction for age.

# Subpart F—Computation of the Overall Minimum Rate
§ 229.45
Employee benefit.
The original employee 100 percent overall minimum amount, before adjustment for age, other family members, or other benefits, is the Overall Minimum PIA, as described in part 225
of this chapter. This is the PIA which would be used under the Social Security Act if the employee's railroad service had been covered under that Act instead of the Railroad Retirement Act. The Overall Minimum PIA may be recomputed for additional earnings and adjusted for cost-of-living increases. Delayed retirement credits are added to the Overall Minimum PIA as shown in part 225, subpart D of this chapter.
§ 229.46
Spouse or divorced spouse benefit.
If a spouse or divorced spouse is included in the computation of the overall minimum, a benefit of 50 percent times the Overall Minimum PIA is computed. In the case of a spouse, the benefit may be adjusted for the family maximum, age, or other benefits. In the case of a divorced spouse, the benefit may be adjusted only for age or other benefits.
§ 229.47
Child's benefit.
If a child is included in the computation of the overall minimum, a child's benefit of 50 percent times the Overall Minimum PIA is computed. This amount may be adjusted for the family maximum or other benefits.
§ 229.48
Family maximum.
(a)
Family maximum defined.
Under the Social Security Act, the amount of monthly benefits that can be paid for any month on one person's earnings record is limited. This limited amount is called the family maximum. The family maximum used to adjust the social security overall minimum rate is based on the employee's Overall Minimum PIA. The divorced spouse overall minimum is never reduced because of the family maximum.
(b)
Computation of the family maximum
—(1)
The employee attains retirement age prior to 1979.
The maximum is the amount appearing in column V of the applicable table published each year by the Secretary of Health and Human Services on the line on which appears in column IV the primary insurance amount of the insured individual whose compensation is the basis for the benefits payable. Where the maximum is exceeded, the total tier I benefits for each month after 1964 are reduced to the amount appearing in column V. However, when any of the persons entitled to benefits on the insured individual's compensation would, except for the limitation described in § 404.353(b) of title 20 (dealing with the entitlement to more than one child's benefit), be entitled to a child's annuity on the basis of the compensation of one or more other insured individuals, the total benefits payable may not be reduced to less than the smaller of:
(i) The sum of the maximum amounts of benefits payable on the basis of the compensation of all such insured individuals, or
(ii) The last figure in column V of the applicable table published each year by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The “applicable” table refers to the table which is effective for the month the benefit is payable.
(2)
The employee attains retirement age in 1979.
(i) The maximum is computed as follows:
(A) 150 percent of the first $230 of the individual's primary insurance amount, plus
(B) 272 percent of the primary insurance amount over $230 but not over $332, plus
(C) 134 percent of the primary insurance amount over $332 but not over $433, plus
(D) 175 percent of the primary insurance amount over $433.
(ii) If the total of this computation is not a multiple of $0.10, it will be rounded to the next lower multiple of $0.10.
(3)
The employee attains retirement age after 1979.
The maximum is computed as in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. However, the dollar amount shown there will be updated each year as average earnings rise. This updating is done by first dividing the average of the total wages (see 20 CFR 404.203(m)) for the second year before the individual dies or becomes eligible, by the average of the total wages for 1977. The result of that computation is then multiplied by each dollar amount in the formula in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each updated dollar amount will be rounded to the nearer dollar, if the amount is an exact multiple of $0.50 (but not of $1), it will be rounded to the next higher $1. Before November 2 of
each calendar year after 1978, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will publish in the
Federal Register
the formula and updated dollar amounts to be used for determining the monthly maximum for the following year.
(c)
Disability family maximum.
If an employee's first month of entitlement to the DIB O/M is July 1980 or later, the family maximum is 85 percent of the employee's Average Indexed Monthly Earnings but not less than the employee's Overall Minimum PIA, and no more than 150 percent of the employee's Overall Minimum PIA.
(d)
Reduction for family maximum.
The spouse's and child(ren)'s share of the Overall Minimum PIA are reduced if the total benefits are higher than the family maximum amount. These auxiliary shares are adjusted so that they each receive a proportionate share of the family maximum amount over and above the employee benefit. This adjustment is before adjustment for age or other benefits. The spouse and child(ren)'s benefits are computed as follows:
(1) The Overall Minimum PIA is subtracted from the family maximum amount.
(2) The result from paragraph (d)(1) of this section is divided by the total number of auxiliary beneficiaries (spouse and children).
(3) If the amount of each benefit from paragraph (d)(2) of this section is not a multiple of $0.10, it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $0.10. After determining the beneficiary's share (the amount after reduction for other benefits) the amount is rounded to the next lowest multiple of $1.00, if it is not already a multiple of $1.00.
(e)
Combined family maximum.
If a child is eligible to be included in the computation of the overall minimum on more than one railroad retirement annuity, a combined family maximum may apply, if it results in higher annuity rates. The combined family maximum is the smaller of:
(1) The sum of the individual family maximums on each earnings record; or
(2) 1.75 times the highest primary insurance amount possible in a year using average indexed monthly earnings equal to one-twelfth of the contribution and benefit base for that year. Average indexed monthly earnings and contribution and benefit base are explained in § 229.2 of this part.
(f) This section may be illustrated by the following examples:
(1) An employee, age 62, applies for an age and service annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act (RRA). His annuity rate is $700. The employee has a son who was disabled for all regular employment prior to his attaining age 18. The RRA does not provide an annuity for a disabled child of a living employee. If the employee had been covered under the Social Security Act he would have received a benefit of $500 (the Overall Minimum PIA) and his child would have received a benefit of $250 (50 percent of $500), which produces a total family benefit of $750. The family maximum is $804.90. Under the O/M guarantee, the employee would receive $750 since it is higher than his annuity rate of $700. Since $750 is less than the family maximum computed for this employee, there is no reduction for the family maximum.
(2) It is determined that a disabled employee is entitled to a DIB O/M computed as follows:
Overall Minimum PIA
$ 600.00
Spouse (50% × 600)
300.00
Child (50% × 600)
300.00
1200.00
However, the employee's family maximum is $900 (150 percent of $600). Consequently, the DIB O/M will be paid as follows:
Employee
$ 600.00
Spouse
150.00
Child
150.00
900.00
§ 229.49
Adjustment of benefits under family maximum for change in family group.
(a)
Increase in family group.
If an overall minimum rate is adjusted for the family maximum and an additional family member can be included, the benefits payable to previous auxiliary beneficiaries (spouse and children) are reduced to provide a share for the new family member. The difference between the Overall Minimum PIA (see § 225.15 of this part) and the family maximum
amount is divided by the increased number of auxiliary beneficiaries. If the amount of each benefit is not a multiple of $0.10, it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $0.10. After determining a beneficiary's share (the amount after reduction for other benefits) the amount is rounded to the next lowest multiple of $1.00, if it is not already a multiple of $1.00.
(b)
Decrease in family group.
If an overall minimum rate is adjusted for the family maximum and there is a decrease in the number of eligible family members, the benefits for the remaining auxiliary beneficiaries (spouse and children) are increased. If the family maximum still applies, the difference between the Overall Minimum PIA and the family maximum amount is divided by the number of remaining auxiliary beneficiaries. If the amount of each benefit is not a multiple of $0.10, it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $0.10. After determining the beneficiary's share (the amount after reduction for other benefits) the amount is rounded to the next lowest multiple of $1.00, if it is not already a multiple of $1.00.
(c)
Effective date of rate change.
The overall minimum rate changes described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are effective the month in which the number of auxiliary beneficiaries changes.
§ 229.50
Age reduction in employee or spouse benefit.
(a)
When age reduction applies.
The employee overall minimum benefit is reduced for each month the employee is under retirement age on the date the employee becomes eligible for an increase under the overall minimum, as shown in § 229.22 of this part, unless the employee has a period of disability and § 229.52 of this part does not apply, in which case no age reduction is applied. The spouse overall minimum benefit is reduced for each month a spouse, who is not a spouse with the employee's child under 16 years old or disabled before attaining age 22 in his or her care, is under retirement age on the date the spouse is eligible for an increase under the overall minimum (see § 229.21 of this part). If a spouse's overall minimum benefit is reduced for age and he or she later begins caring for an eligible child, no age reduction will apply for the months the child is in his or her care.
(b)
Employee age reduction.
The Overall Minimum PIA plus any delayed retirement credits is reduced by
1/180
for each month the employee is under retirement age on the date the employee becomes eligible for the overall minimum. When the PIA amount is increased, the amount of the increase is reduced by
1/180
for the same number of months used to determine the initial age reduction.
(c)
Spouse age reduction.
The amount of the spouse overall minimum benefit, after any adjustment for the family maximum, is reduced by
1/144
for each month the spouse is under retirement age on the date when he or she becomes eligible under the overall minimum. When the spouse benefit increases, the amount of the increase is reduced by
1/144
for the same number of months used to compute the initial age reduction.
(d)
Age reduction after 1999.
Beginning in the year 2000 the amount of age reduction shall be as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for the first 36 months of the reduction period, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section, and
1/240
for any additional months included in such period.
(e)
Reduction period defined.
The reduction period is the number of months beginning with the first month for which the O/M is payable and ending with the month before the month the beneficiary attains retirement age.
§ 229.51
Adjustment of age reduction.
(a)
General.
If an age reduced employee or spouse overall minimum benefit is not paid for certain months before the employee or spouse attains retirement age, or the employee becomes entitled to a DIB O/M, the age reduction may be adjusted to drop the months for which no payment was made or the overall minimum rate was not reduced for age.
(b)
Employee adjusted age reduction.
The following months are deducted from the months used to determine the age reduction in the Overall Minimum PIA amount, effective the month in
which the employee attains retirement age or becomes entitled to a DIB O/M:
(1) Months in which the increase under the overall minimum is completely or partially deducted because of the employee's excess earnings; and
(2) Months in which the employee is entitled to a DIB O/M as well as a reduced O/M.
(c)
Spouse adjusted age reduction.
The following months are deducted from the months used to determine the age reduction in the spouse overall minimum benefit, effective the month in which the spouse attains retirement age:
(1) Months in which the spouse O/M benefit is completely or partially deducted because of the employee's or spouse's excess earnings:
(2) Months after entitlement to a spouse O/M benefit ends for any reason;
(3) Months in which a spouse has in her care the employee's child who is under 16 years old or disabled before age 22;
(4) Months in which a DIB O/M benefit is not payable because the employee refused rehabilitation service (see § 229.81 of this part).
§ 229.52
Age reduction when a reduced age O/M is effective before DIB O/M.
If an employee received a reduced age O/M before the effective date of a DIB O/M, the PIA amount for the DIB O/M is reduced as if the employee had attained retirement age on the effective date of the DIB O/M.
§ 229.53
Reduction for social security benefits on employee's wage record.
The total annuity rate under the overall minimum is reduced, but not below zero, by the total amount of the social security benefits being paid to all family members on the employee's wage record.
§ 229.54
Reduction for social security benefit paid to employee on another person's earnings record.
The employee PIA amount under the overall minimum, after any age reduction, is reduced, but not below zero, by the amount of any social security benefit being paid to the employee on another person's earnings record.
§ 229.55
Reduction for spouse social security benefit.
A spouse benefit under the overall minimum, after any adjustment for the family maximum and for age, is reduced, but not below zero, by the amount of any social security benefit being paid to the spouse on other than the employee's earnings record. If the social security benefit is equal to or higher than the spouse overall minimum benefit and the family maximum applies, the overall minimum rate is recomputed so that the spouse is not included, if it would result in a higher overall minimum rate.
§ 229.56
Reduction for child's social security benefit.
A child's benefit under the overall minimum, after any adjustment for the family maximum, is reduced, but not below zero, by the amount of any social security benefit being paid to the child on other than the employee's earnings record. If the social security benefit is equal to or higher than the child's overall minimum benefit and the family maximum applies, the overall minimum rate is recomputed so that the child is not included, if it would result in a higher overall minimum rate.
§ 229.57
Reduction in spouse overall minimum benefit for employee annuity.
If an annuitant is entitled to both an employee annuity on his or her own earnings record and a spouse annuity on a different earnings record, the total overall minimum rates on both earnings records must be higher than the total railroad formula rates for the overall minimum to apply. The spouse overall minimum benefit amount, after adjustment for the family maximum and for age, is reduced by the employee-only overall minimum rate on the spouse's own earnings record (the employee benefit adjusted for age and social security benefits) plus the amount of any social security benefit payable to the spouse on other than the empoyee's earnings record.
§ 229.58
Rounding of overall minimum amounts.
The overall minimum amount for each beneficiary which is not a multiple of $0.10 is rounded to the next lower multiple of $0.10. After reducing each beneficiary's share for other benefits, if the result is not a multiple of $1.00 it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.00.

# Subpart G—Reduction for Worker's Compensation or Disability Benefits Under a Federal, State, or Local Law or Plan
§ 229.65
Initial reduction.
(a)
When reduction is effective.
A benefit computed under the overall minimum based on disability (DIB O/M) is reduced (not below zero) for any month the employee is under retirement age and is entitled to worker's compensation or disability benefits under a Federal, State, or local law or plan (public disability benefit). The reduction is effective with the month the employee is entitled to worker's compensation or a public disability benefit.
(b)
When reduction is not made.
A reduction for worker's compensation is not made if the law or plan under which the worker's compensation or public disability benefit is paid provides for the reduction of the benefit provided due to entitlement to a social security disability benefit, and so provided on February 18, 1981.
(c)
Amount of reduction.
The reduction in the DIB O/M for worker's compensation or public disability benefit equals the difference between:
(1) The sum of the monthly DIB O/M rate, including benefits for all family members (subject to the family maximum), plus the monthly worker's compensation or public disability benefit; and
(2) The higher of 80 percent of the employee's average current earnings before becoming disabled or the monthly DIB O/M rate (before reduction for worker's compensation or public disability benefit).
(d)
Average current earnings, defined.
Beginning January 1, 1979, an employee's average current earnings for purposes of this section are the highest of:
(1) The average monthly wage (see § 225.2 of this chapter) used to compute the DIB O/M under the Social Security Act rules which were in effect before 1979; or
(2) One-sixtieth of the employee's total earnings from employment or self-employment under either the Social Security or Railroad Retirement Acts (including earnings that exceed the maximum used in computing social security benefits) for the 5 consecutive years after 1950 in which the earnings were the highest; or
(3) One-twelfth of the employee's total earnings from employment or self-employment under either the Social Security or Railroad Retirement Acts (including earnings that exceed the maximum used in computing social security benefits) for the year of highest earnings in the period from 5 years before through the year in which the employee became disabled. The result is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.00.
§ 229.66
Changes in reduction amount.
(a)
Change in DIB O/M.
The amount of the worker's compensation or public disability benefit reduction does not change when there is an increase in the DIB O/M rate because of an amendment or cost of living increase. However, the reduction amount does change if there is a change in the family members included in the DIB O/M. When the number of family members changes and the DIB O/M is still payable, the amount of the reduction is recomputed using the DIB O/M rate, including the changed family group, as if the new family composition had existed when the worker's compensation or public disability benefit reduction first applied. However, this new reduction is not effective until the date of the change of the family group. The worker's compensation or public disability benefit and average current earnings are the same as those used before the change in the family group.
(b)
Change in amount of worker's compensation/public disability benefit.
The amount of the reduction for worker's compensation or public disability benefit changes when there is a change in
the amount of the worker's compensation or public disability benefit. If the worker's compensation or public disability benefit increases, the change in the reduction amount is effective with the month of the increase. If the worker's compensation or public disability benefit decreases, the change in the reduction amount is effective with the month of the decrease, no matter when the notice of the decrease is received.
§ 229.67
Redetermination of reduction.
(a)
General.
All cases reduced for worker's compensation or public disability benefit are recomputed in the second year after the year the reduction was first applied and every third year after that. The redetermined rate is effective with January of the year after the year the redetermination is made. The redetermined reduction is used only if it provides an annuity rate that is higher than the previous annuity rate.
(b)
Redetermined average current earnings.
The average current earnings amount used in redetermining a worker's compensation or public disability benefit reduction is determined by multiplying the initial average current earnings amount by:
(1) The average total wages (including wages that exceed the maximum used in computing social security benefits) of all persons for whom wages were reported to the Secretary of the Treasury for the year before the year or redetermination, divided by the average total wages for 1977 or, if later, the year before the year the reduction was first computed. If the result is not a multiple of $1.00, it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.00; or
(2) If the reduction was first computed before 1978, the average taxable wages reported to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for the first quarter of 1977, divided by the average taxable wages for the first quarter of the year before the year the reduction was first computed. If the result is not a multiple of $1.00, it is rounded to the next lower multiple of $1.00.
§ 229.68
Reduction of DIB O/M.
A reduction for entitlement to worker's compensation or a public disability benefit is applied after the DIB O/M is reduced for age and the family maximum. The spouse and child O/M benefits are first reduced proportionately. The employee O/M benefit is decreased by any remaining reduction amount.

# Subpart H—Miscellaneous Deductions and Reductions
§ 229.80
Earnings restrictions.
The O/M may be reduced due to earnings from employment or self-employment in the same manner as a social security benefit. These restrictions on earnings are found at subpart E of part 404 of this chapter. Earnings can never reduce an employee's benefit below the railroad formula rate less the amount that those benefits would be reduced by earnings.
§ 229.81
Refusal to accept vocational rehabilitation.
The DIB O/M is not payable for any month in which the disabled employee refuses, without good reason, to accept vocational rehabilitation services available under an approved state program. A disabled child's benefit under the O/M is not payable for any month in which the child refuses, without good reason, to accept such vocational rehabilitation services, unless the child is a full-time student.
§ 229.82
Failure to have child in care.
(a)
General.
The full amount of the spouse overall minimum benefit is not payable for any month a spouse, who is included in the overall minimum because he or she has a child in his or her care, is under retirement age and is no longer caring for an eligible child. However, if the spouse is at least 62 years old, a reduced spouse annuity or a reduced overall minimum benefit is payable if the spouse has stated that he or she will accept a reduced benefit.
(b)
Report required.
When the overall minimum, which includes a benefit for a spouse who has the employee's child in his or her care, is payable, both the employee and spouse are responsible for reporting when the child leaves the spouse's care. The report is due before the benefits are paid for the second month after the first month in which
the child is no longer in the spouse's care.
(c)
Penalty for failure to report.
If the employee or spouse does not report the fact that a spouse included in the overall minimum no longer has an eligible child in his or her care within the time limit shown in paragraph (b) of this section, a penalty is deducted from the overall minimum amount, unless there is a good reason for the person's failure to report. The penalty deduction for the first failure to make a timely report equals the amount of the overall minimum increase for the first month in which a report should have been made. The deduction for the second failure to make a timely report is twice the amount of the overall minimum increase for the first month in which a report should have been made. The deduction for the third and later failures to make a timely report is three times the amount of the overall minimum increase for the first month in which a report should have been made or, if less, the overall minimum increase times the number of months for which a timely report was not made.
§ 229.83
Deportation.
The age DIB O/M is not payable for any month after the month the Board receives notice that the employee has been deported for a reason shown in section 202(h) of the Social Security Act. This restriction no longer applies if the employee is later legally admitted to the United States for permanent residence.
§ 229.84
Conviction for subversive activities.
If a person is convicted of subversive activities (under chapter 37, 105, or 115 of title 18 of the U.S. Code or section 4, 112, or 113 of the Internal Security Act of 1950, as amended), the court may order that earnings in the year of the conviction and previous years are to be disregarded in determining whether the person is entitled to social security benefits. These earnings would also be ignored in determining entitlement to the age or DIB O/M.
§ 229.85
Substantial gainful activity by blind employee or child.
A blind employee or child who is 55 years old or older is entitled to an O/M benefit based on disability while he or she is working in substantial gainful activity that does not require skills or ability used in his or her previous work. However, the DIB O/M or child's O/M benefit is not payable for any month in which the employee or child works in any type of substantial gainful activity which requires skills or abilities comparable to those of any gainful activity in which he or she has previously engaged with some regularity and over a substantial period of time.

# Subpart I—Payment of Overall Minimum Rate
§ 229.90
Proportionate shares of overall minimum.
When both the employee and the spouse are entitled to annuities and the overall minimum rate is higher than the railroad formula rate, the overall minimum amount must be divided between the employee and spouse. The employee receives two-thirds of the total O/M rate. The spouse receives one-third of the total O/M rate.
§ 229.91
Payment of the overall minimum for part of a month.
(a)
Employee annuity payable for part of a month.
If an employee annuity begins after the first day of the month, the O/M amount payable for the partial month is
1/30
of the monthly rate times the number of days in the partial month.
(b)
Spouse annuity payable for part of a month
—(1)
Spouse not included in O/M before beginning date of spouse annuity and O/M applies as of the spouse annuity beginning date.
If a spouse annuity begins after the first day of a month, and the spouse is not includable in the O/M before the beginning date of the spouse annuity, and the O/M rate paid to the family group, including the spouse, as of the spouse annuity beginning date exceeds the amounts payable using the benefit formulas under the Railroad Retirement Act, the amount payable to the spouse for the partial month is
1/30
of the spouse's share of the O/M rate times the number of days in the month beginning with the spouse's annuity beginning date. In such a case, if the employee annuity is payable from the first day of the month, the amount payable to the employee is:
(i) One-thirtieth of the higher of the railroad formula or the O/M rate, without the spouse included, times the number of days in the month before the spouse annuity begins, plus
(ii) One-thirtieth of the employee's share of the O/M rate, with the spouse included, times the number of days in the month beginning with the spouse's annuity beginning date.
(2)
Spouse included in O/M before beginning date of spouse annuity and the O/M continues to apply.
If a spouse annuity begins after the first day of a month, and the spouse is includable in the O/M before the beginning date of the spouse annuity, and the O/M rate paid to the family group, including the spouse, as of the spouse annuity beginning date continues to exceed the amounts payable using the benefit formulas under the Railroad Retirement Act, the amount payable to the spouse for the partial month is
1/30
of the spouse's share of the O/M rate times the number of days in the month beginning with the spouse's annuity beginning date. In such a case, if the employee annuity is payable from the first of the month, the amount payable to the employee is:
(i) One-thirtieth of the O/M rate, with the spouse included, times the number of days in the month before the spouse annuity begins; plus
(ii) One-thirtieth of the employee's share of the O/M rate, with the spouse included, times the number of days in the month beginning with the spouse's annuity beginning date.
(3)
O/M rate applies before beginning date of spouse annuity and the railroad formula applies as of the spouse annuity beginning date.
If a spouse annuity begins after the first day of a month and the O/M rate applies to the family group, with or without the spouse included, before the beginning date of the spouse annuity, and the O/M rate paid to the family group, including the spouse, as of the spouse annuity beginning date is less than the amounts payable using the formulas under the Railroad Retirement Act, the amount payable to the spouse for the partial month is
1/30
of the spouse's railroad formula rate times the number of days in the month beginning with the spouse's annuity beginning date. In such a case, if the employee annuity is payable from the first day of the month, the amount payable to the employee is:
(i) One-thirtieth of the O/M times the number of days in the month before the spouse annuity begins; plus
(ii) One-thirtieth of the employee's railroad formula rate times the number of days in the month beginning with the spouse's annuity beginning date.
Pt. 230

# PART 230—MONTHS ANNUITIES NOT PAYABLE BY REASON OF WORK
Sec.
230.1
Statutory provisions.
230.2
Loss of annuity for month in which compensated service is rendered.
230.5
Exception concerning service to a local lodge or division.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f.

# Source:
Board Order 60-2, 25 FR 593, Jan. 23, 1960, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 7656, Feb. 22, 1982.
§ 230.1
Statutory provisions.
No annuity shall be paid with respect to any month in which an individual in receipt of any annuity hereunder shall render compensated service to an employer or to the last person by whom he was employed prior to the date on which the annuity began to accrue. Individuals receiving annuities shall report to the Board immediately all such compensated service. No annuity under paragraph 4 or 5 of subsection (a) of this section shall be paid to an individual with respect to any month in which the individual is under age sixty-five and is paid more than $100 in earnings from employment or self-employment of any form:
Provided,
That for purposes of this paragraph, if a payment in any one calendar month is for accruals in more than one calendar month, such payment shall be deemed to have been paid in each of the months in which accrued to the extent accrued in such month. Any such individual under the age of sixty-five shall report to the Board any such payment of earnings for such employment or self-employment before receipt and acceptance of an annuity for the second month following the month of such
payment. A deduction shall be imposed, with respect to any such individual who fails to make such report, in the annuity or annuities otherwise due the individual, in an amount equal to the amount of the annuity for each month in which he is paid such earnings in such employment or self-employment, except that the first deduction imposed pursuant to this sentence shall in no case exceed an amount equal to the amount of the annuity otherwise due for the first month with respect to which the deduction is imposed. If pursuant to the third sentence of this subsection an annuity was not paid to an individual with respect to one or more months in any calendar year, and it is subsequently established that the total amount of such individual's earnings during such year as determined in accordance with that sentence (but exclusive of earnings for services described in the first sentence of this subsection) did not exceed $1,200, the annuity with respect to such month or months, and any deduction imposed by reason of the failure to report earnings for such month or months under the fifth sentence of this subsection, shall then be payable. If the total amount of such individual's earnings during such year (exclusive of earnings for services described in the first sentence of this subsection) is in excess of $1,200, the number of months in such year with respect to which an annuity is not payable by reason of such third and fifth sentences shall not exceed one month for each $100 of such excess, treating the last $50 or more of such excess as $100; and if the amount of the annuity has changed during such year, any payments of annuity which become payable solely by reason of the limitation contained in this sentence shall be made first with respect to the month or months for which the annuity is larger. (Section 2(d) of the act.)
§ 230.2
Loss of annuity for month in which compensated service is rendered.
If an individual in receipt of an annuity renders compensated service, he shall not be paid an annuity with respect to any month in which such service is rendered to:
(a) An employer;
(b) Any person whether or not an employer by whom he was most recently employed when his annuity begins to accrue;
(c) Any person with whom he held, at the time the annuity begins to accrue, any rights to return to service;
(d) Any person with whom he ceased service in order to have his annuity begin to accrue.
[Board Order 60-2, 25 FR 593, Jan. 23, 1960; 25 FR 1074, Feb. 6, 1960. Redesignated at 47 FR 7656, Feb. 22, 1982]
§ 230.5
Exception concerning service to a local lodge or division.
In determining whether an annuity is subject to the provisions of this part the Board shall disregard any compensated service rendered after December 31, 1936, to a local lodge or division of a railway-labor-organization employer if the compensation for such service is required to be disregarded under the provisions of § 222.3(f) of this chapter.
[Board Order 40-742, 6 FR 298, Jan. 14, 1941. Redesignated at 47 FR 7656, Feb. 22, 1982]
Pt. 233

# PART 233—REDUCTION IN THE WINDFALL BENEFIT ANNUITY COMPONENT
Sec.
233.1
When reduction must be made.
233.2
Computation of reduction.
233.3
Reduction of retroactive and other similar payments.
233.4
Reconsideration of the reduction computation.

# Authority:
Sec. 1122(c), Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 638 (45 U.S.C. 231f).

# Source:
46 FR 50786, Oct. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 233.1
When reduction must be made.
On or before August 31 of each fiscal year, the Board shall, in accordance with this section, determine the amount of the reduction, if any that will have to be made in the following fiscal year in the amount of the windfall benefit components of persons entitled to such benefit components under the Railroad Retirement Act. A reduction must be made where it is determined that the balance in the Dual Benefits Payments Account, comprised of such funds as will be available for the payment of windfall benefits in the following fiscal year including the enacted or estimated appropriation to the Account for the next succeeding fiscal year, disregarding any interest which may be earned by the moneys in the
Account during the next fiscal year, is less than the estimate of the amount of the windfall benefits that would be payable under the Railroad Retirement Act during such fiscal year if no reduction were to be applicable. The amount of the windfall benefit as determined by the Board and paid to a person under this section shall constitute full and complete payment of the person's windfall component and there shall be no further liability on the part of the Board, the U.S. Government, or any other person or entity for the amount of any reduction imposed.
§ 233.2
Computation of reduction.
The amount of the reduction to be made in the windfall benefit components of annuities shall be determined in the following manner: the balance in the Dual Benefits Payments Account as determined under § 233.1 shall be divided by the amount of the estimated windfall benefits that would be payable for the fiscal year as determined under § 233.1 to obtain a percentage. This percentage of the unreduced windfall benefit component shall be the amount of that component to which persons are entitled under the Railroad Retirement Act. In no event, however, shall the amount of the windfall benefit exceed the amount that would be payable under the Railroad Retirement Act without regard to this section.
§ 233.3
Reduction of retroactive and other similar payments.
If a person is entitled to a retroactive payment for a month or months in an earlier fiscal year, the reduction factor as imposed with respect to the windfall component of the person's annuity, including that portion attributable to an earlier fiscal year, shall be the reduction factor applicable in the year of payment:
Provided, however,
That if the application of the payment year reduction factor would result in a larger payment than would the application of the earlier year reduction factor, the earlier year reduction factor shall be applied. The reduction factor imposed in the case of a replacement payment shall be that reduction factor which was applicable to the original payment. The term “replacement payment” means a payment made to a beneficiary to replace a check which was issued to the beneficiary in an earlier month, but which was not negotiated, and “replacement payment” also means a payment made to the beneficiary for an earlier month in which his or her annuity was not paid for some reason such as lack of a current address.
§ 233.4
Reconsideration of the reduction computation.
The Board shall periodically, but at least quarterly, examine the determinations and calculations made under §§ 233.1 and 233.2, in view of changes which may occur in the estimates used. If, as a result of this examination, the Board determines that the balance in the Dual Benefits Payments Account will be insufficient to pay benefits from that Account for the balance of the fiscal year at the established rate, the Board shall establish a new rate of reduction to be applied to benefits to be paid for the remaining months so that the balance in the Dual Benefits Payments Account will be sufficient to pay benefits for the remainder of the fiscal year. If, as a result of this examination, the Board finds that the balance in the Account is greater than would be required to pay benefits at the then applicable reduction percentage for the remainder of the fiscal year, the Board may, at its discretion, decrease the reduction percentage with respect to benefits to be paid for the remaining months.
Pt. 234

# PART 234—LUMP-SUM PAYMENTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
234.1
Introduction.
234.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Lump-Sum Death Payment
234.10
General.
234.11
1974 Act lump-sum death payment.
234.12
1937 Act lump-sum death payment.
234.13
Payment to a funeral home.
234.14
Payment to an equitably entitled person.
234.15
When an employee's estate is entitled.
234.16
When a widow(er) is eligible as an equitably entitled person.
234.17
When an equitably entitled person's estate is payable.
234.18
Payment of a deferred lump-sum to a widow(er).
234.19
Effect of payment on future entitlement.
234.20
Computation of the employee's 1937 Act LSDP basic amount.
234.21
Definitions of “living with” and “living in the same household.”

# Subpart C—Annuities Due but Unpaid at Death
234.30
General.
234.31
Regular employee retirement and supplemental annuities.
234.32
Spouse or divorced spouse annuities.
234.33
Survivor annuities.
234.34
When an entitled relative of the employee dies before receiving payment of a due but unpaid annuity.

# Subpart D—Residual Lump-Sum Payment
234.40
General.
234.41
Persons to whom an RLS is payable.
234.42
How the employee may designate beneficiaries.
234.43
Payment to designated beneficiaries.
234.44
Payment to surviving relatives.
234.45
Payment to the employee's estate.
234.46
Amount of the RLS payable.
234.47
Election of the RLS by a widow(er) or parent.
234.48
Computation of the gross RLS amount.

# Subpart E—Lump-Sum Refund Payment
234.50
General.
234.51
Persons to whom a lump-sum refund payment is payable.
234.52
Effect of payment on other benefits.
234.53
Computation of the lump-sum refund payment.

# Subpart F—Tier II Separation Allowance Lump-Sum Payment
234.55
General.
234.56
Persons to whom a separation allowance lump-sum payment is payable.
234.57
Effect of payment on other benefits.
234.58
Computation of the separation allowance lump-sum payment.

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous
234.60
Escheat.
234.61
Assignment of interest by an eligible person.
234.62
Effect of conviction of a felony on entitlement.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f.

# Source:
51 FR 3036, Jan. 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 234.1
Introduction.
This part contains information about the various lump-sum payments payable under sections 6(a)(1) through 6(d)(2) of the 1974 Act.
§ 234.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Applicant
means the person who signs an application for an annuity or lump-sum for himself, herself or for some other person.
Apply
means to sign a form or statement that the Board accepts as an application.
Burial expenses
means expenses in connection with the actual burial or other disposition of the remains of the deceased employee.
Eligible
means a person meets all the requirements for payment of an annuity or a lump-sum, but has not yet applied.
Employee
means any person who is working or has worked for a railroad employer.
Entitled
means a person who meets all the requirements for an annuity or a lump-sum, and has applied.
Equitably entitled person
means the person whose funds were used to pay the burial expenses of a deceased employee.
Lump-sum
means any non-recurring payment due because of an employee's or beneficiary's death.
Person
means an individual, partnership, trust estate, association, corporation, government unit, or estate of a deceased individual.
Reimbursable burial expenses
means that part of the burial expenses not previously reimbursed by another Federal agency.

# Subpart B—Lump-Sum Death Payment
§ 234.10
General.
A lump-sum death payment (LSDP) is payable when an employee with ten or more years of railroad service and a current connection with the railroad industry dies and is not survived by an individual who is eligible for a monthly annuity in the month the employee
died. The amount of the LSDP and the priority for payment depend upon when the employee acquired his or her 120th month of railroad service. If the employee acquired the 120th month of railroad service after 1974, a 1974 Act lump-sum death payment is payable to the employee's widow(er). If the employee acquired the 120th month of railroad service before 1975, a 1937 Act lump-sum death payment is payable to the employee's widow(er), the funeral home or the payer of the employee's burial expenses. An application for an LSDP must be filed within two years after the employee's death.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0031)
[51 FR 3036, Jan. 23, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 11017, Apr. 6, 1987]
§ 234.11
1974 Act lump-sum death payment.
(a) The total amount of the 1974 Act LSDP is payable to the employee's widow(er), if she or he was “living in the same household” as the employee at the time of the employee's death. (Refer to § 234.21 for an explanation of “living in the same household.”)
(b) The amount of the 1974 Act LSDP is equal to three times the amount of the PIA, as determined by section 215 of the Social Security Act, or $255.00, whichever is less.
§ 234.12
1937 Act lump-sum death payment.
(a) The 1937 Act LSDP is payable in the following order and amounts:
(1) The employee's “living with” widow(er) is paid the total amount of the LSDP. (Refer to § 234.21 for an explanation of “living with.”)
(2) A funeral home, which has unpaid expenses, is paid the amount of the unpaid expenses or the total amount of the LSDP, whichever is less.
(3) An equitably entitled person is paid the total amount of the LSDP or a proportionate share of the LSDP, depending upon the amount of burial expenses he or she paid.
(b) The 1937 Act LSDP is equal to ten times the basic amount. (Refer to § 234.20 for an explanation of the computation of the employee's basic amount.)
§ 234.13
Payment to a funeral home.
The 1937 Act LSDP is paid to a funeral home under the following conditions:
(a) A person who has assumed responsibility for all or part of the burial expenses files an application authorizing payment to the funeral home. Usually, the Board considers the person who makes the arrangements with the funeral home or makes a voluntary payment to the funeral home to be the person who has assumed responsibility for the burial expenses.
(b) An official of the funeral home with unpaid expenses files an application on behalf of the funeral home after 90 days have elapsed from the date of the employee's death, if during that 90-day period no one has assumed responsibility for the payment of the burial expenses.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0031)
§ 234.14
Payment to an equitably entitled person.
(a) An equitably entitled person's funds used to pay burial expenses may consist of:
(1) The individual's own money;
(2) Money in a joint account with the employee or another individual;
(3) Money paid to an individual who was named beneficiary to receive the money;
(4) A promissory note; or
(5) Money which several people placed into a pooled fund.
(b) Payment is made to equitably entitled persons in the following order:
(1) The person who paid the funeral home expenses;
(2) The person who paid the grave opening and closing expenses;
(3) The person who provided the burial plot; and
(4) The person who paid any type of expenses not listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
§ 234.15
When an employee's estate is entitled.
(a) The employee's estate is considered an equitably entitled person if the funds used to pay burial expenses consisted of:
(1) Money in the employee's single-ownership bank account;
(2) Money paid directly to the funeral home by the employee before death;
(3) Money paid by the employee under a contract, plan, system or general practice where no beneficiary was named to receive the money;
(4) Money found among the employee's effects;
(5) Unpaid salary due the employee by the employee's employer;
(6) Money obtained by selling the employee's real or personal property; or
(7) Money from a trust fund.
(b) If the employee's estate is the equitably entitled person, the Board will pay the LSDP to the legal representative of the employee's estate. When no legal representative of the employee's estate has been or is expected to be appointed, the Board will pay the LSDP according to state statutory procedures applicable when no formal probate or administration occurs.
§ 234.16
When a widow(er) is eligible as an equitably entitled person.
When a widow(er) files for an LSDP and the “living with” requirement (described in § 234.21) is not met, the widow(er) could be paid as an equitably entitled person.
§ 234.17
When an equitably entitled person's estate is payable.
When an equitably entitled person dies before negotiating the LSDP check, that person's share is payable to his or her estate.
§ 234.18
Payment of a deferred lump-sum to a widow(er).
In certain cases, a deferred LSDP may be payable to the employee's widow(er), even if someone may be entitled to a monthly annuity in the month of the employee's death. A deferred LSDP is the difference between the amount of the LSDP and the total of the monthly survivor annuities paid during the 12-month period which begins in the month of the employee's death.
§ 234.19
Effect of payment on future entitlement.
Payment of an LSDP does not affect the entitlement of survivors to monthly annuities at a later date.
§ 234.20
Computation of the employee's 1937 Act LSDP basic amount.
(a) Definition of terms used in this section:
Average monthly remuneration (AMR)
means the amount obtained by adding together the creditable compensation and wages earned by the employee after 1936 and before the LSDP closing date and dividing that sum by three times the number of calendar quarters in that period. (Refer to part 211 of this chapter for a definition of creditable compensation and section 209 of the Social Security Act for a definition of creditable wages.)
Closing date
means whichever of the following produce the highest AMR:
(1) The first day of the calendar year in which the employee both attained age 65 and was completely insured;
(2) The first day of the calendar year in which the employee died; or
(3) The first day of the calendar year following the year in which the employee died;
(4) However, if paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this definition do not occur before January 1, 1975, the closing date is January 1, 1975.
(b)
LSDP basic amount formula.
The basic amount is computed using the following formula:
(1) Determine 52.4% of the AMR up to and including $75.00;
(2) Determine 12.8% of the AMR exceeding $75.00;
(3) Determine 1% of the sum of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section;
(4) Multiply the result of paragraph (b)(3) of this section by the number of years after 1936 through 1974 in which the employee earned $200 or more;
(5) Add the results of paragraphs (b)(1), (2) and (3) of this section. If the resulting basic amount is less than $18.14, increase it to $18.14.
§ 234.21
Definitions of “living with” and “living in the same household.”
(a)
Living with.
A widow(er) is considered “living with” the employee at the time of the employee's death, if one of the following conditions applies:
(1) The employee and spouse were members of the same household;
(2) The spouse was receiving regular contributions for support from the employee; or
(3) The employee was under court order to contribute to the spouse's support.
(b)(1)
Living in the same household.
An employee and spouse were “living in the same household” if they lived together as a married couple in the same residence. However, an employee and spouse, who were temporarily living apart, will be considered “living in the same household” if there was intent to share the same residence had the employee not died. The Board will usually assume that a married couple was living apart temporarily, if the separation was caused by circumstances beyond their control, for example, ill health, financial difficulties, service with the Armed Forces, or confinement in a curative, custodial, or penal institution.
(2) If the employee and spouse were separated solely for medical reasons, the Board will consider them “living in the same household,” even if the separation was likely to be permanent.

# Subpart C—Annuities Due but Unpaid at Death
§ 234.30
General.
When an applicant or an annuitant dies before being paid any annuities that may be due, the total of those annuities become payable to certain survivors in a lump-sum. Refer to § 234.31 through § 234.34 for information about when and to whom each type of unpaid annuity is payable. An application for an unpaid annuity must be filed within two years after the death of the person originally entitled to the annuity.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3220-0031 and 3220-0032 and 3220-0042)
[51 FR 3036, Jan. 23, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 11017, Apr. 6, 1987]
§ 234.31
Regular employee retirement and supplemental annuities.
A regular employee retirement annuity or a supplemental annuity which is unpaid at the death of the employee is payable in the following order and amounts:
(a) A surviving spouse, who was “living with” (see § 234.21) the employee at the time of the employee's death, receives the full amount of the unpaid annuity.
(b) Each person who paid the employee's burial expenses receives a share of the unpaid annuities in the same proportion that he or she paid the burial expenses, but only to the extent that he or she is not reimbursed by the LSDP. If a payer of the employee's burial expenses dies before negotiating his or her check, that payment becomes payable to his or her estate.
(c) Surviving children of the employee receive equal shares.
(d) Surviving grandchildren of the employee receive equal shares.
(e) Surviving parents of the employee each receive equal shares.
(f) Surviving brothers and sisters of the employee receive equal shares. Half blood brothers and sisters share equally with full blood brothers and sisters.
§ 234.32
Spouse or divorced spouse annuities.
A spouse annuity or divorced spouse annuity which is unpaid at the death of the spouse or divorced spouse is paid in the following order and amounts:
(a) The employee receives the full amount.
(b) If the employee died before negotiating the check in payment of the unpaid annuities, the unpaid spouse annuity or divorced spouse annuity is paid in the same order and amounts as described in § 234.31 (b) through (f).
§ 234.33
Survivor annuities.
Any survivor annuity which is unpaid at the death of the survivor is paid in the same order and amounts as described in § 234.31(a) and § 234.31(c) through § 234.31(f).
§ 234.34
When an entitled relative of the employee dies before receiving payment of a due but unpaid annuity.
If a person, who is entitled to unpaid annuities based upon his or her relationship to the employee, dies before negotiating the check in payment of the unpaid annuities, the amount to which he or she was entitled becomes payable to other relatives of the employee in the same degree of relationship. If no relatives in that degree of
relationship survive, the amount becomes payable to relatives in the next degree of relationship.

# Subpart D—Residual Lump-Sum Payment
§ 234.40
General.
The residual lump-sum (RLS) is the means by which railroad employees and their survivors are guaranteed to receive at least as much in benefits as the employee paid in railroad retirement taxes during the years 1937 through 1974. An RLS payment can be made only if it appears that no other benefits based at least in part on railroad service will be payable under either the Railroad Retirement Act or Social Security Act in the future. The residual is reduced for any retirement benefits that were paid on the basis of the employee's railroad service, and for any survivor benefits based on the employee's earnings already paid by either the Board or the Social Security Administration. A widow(er) or dependent parent can, before attaining age 60, elect to waive future rights to monthly benefits based on the employee's railroad service in order to receive the RLS.
§ 234.41
Persons to whom an RLS is payable.
After the death of an employee, the RLS is payable, in the following order, to: beneficiaries designated by the employee; surviving relatives of the employee in order provided by law (see § 234.44); or the employee's estate.
§ 234.42
How the employee may designate beneficiaries.
The employee may designate one or more persons as beneficiaries of the RLS on a form available at any Board office. The employee may specify the share that each beneficiary is to receive. Also, the employee may designate alternate beneficiaries in the event that all primary beneficiaries die before the RLS becomes payable.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control No. 3220-0031)
§ 234.43
Payment to designated beneficiaries.
(a)
How designated beneficiaries are paid.
Primary beneficiaries are paid the RLS to the exclusion of alternate beneficiaries. If a designated beneficiary dies before the date on which the RLS becomes payable, his or her share of the RLS becomes payable to any other designated beneficiaries. If an entitled designated beneficiary dies before negotiating the RLS check, that share is payable to his or her estate.
(b)
Amount designated beneficiaries are paid.
If the employee specified the share that each beneficiary is to receive, payment is made in the proportion specified. Otherwise, if there is more than one designated beneficiary, each is paid an equal share of the RLS.
§ 234.44
Payment to surviving relatives.
(a)
How surviving relatives are paid.
If the employee either did not designate a beneficiary or was not survived by a designated beneficiary, the RLS is payable to surviving relatives of the employee in the following order of relationship to the employee:
(1) Widow(er) who was “living with” the employee at the time of the employee's death (see § 234.21 for a definition of “living with”);
(2) Child;
(3) Grandchild;
(4) Parent;
(5) Brother or sister, including half blood brother or sister.
(b)
Amount surviving relatives are paid.
If more than one relative in an equal degree of relationship survives the employee, each one is paid an equal share of the RLS. If an entitled relative of the employee dies before negotiating the RLS check, that share becomes payable to other surviving relatives of the employee in the same degree of relationship. If no relatives in that degree of relationship survive, relatives in the next degree of relationship are payable.
§ 234.45
Payment to the employee's estate.
(a)
When the employee's estate is paid.
If no designated beneficiaries or relatives survive the employee when the RLS becomes payable, the employee's
estate may be paid the RLS. Employees may also designate their estates to receive all or a share of the RLS as beneficiaries.
(b)
How the employee's estate is paid.
If a legal representative of the employee's estate has been appointed and has not been discharged, the Board will pay the RLS to the legal representative. When no legal representative of the employee's estate has been or is expected to be appointed, or the estate of the deceased employee has been closed and reopening is not expected, the Board will pay the RLS according to state statutory procedures applicable when no formal probate or administration occurs.
§ 234.46
Amount of the RLS payable.
The gross RLS amount is equal to certain percentages of the employee's creditable compensation, including military service, as described in § 234.48. (Creditable compensation and military service are discussed in parts 211 and 212 of this chapter, respectively.) The amount of the RLS payable is equal to the gross RLS minus the sum of all retirement benefits that have been paid on the basis of the employee's railroad service and all survivor benefits based on the employee's earnings previously paid by either the Board or the Social Security Administration.
§ 234.47
Election of the RLS by a widow(er) or parent.
(a) An RLS cannot be paid if it appears that there are immediate or future monthly survivor benefits payable to anyone other than a widow(er) or parent. A widow(er) or parent can elect to have the RLS paid in lieu of future monthly benefits based on the employee's railroad earnings under either the Railroad Retirement Act or Social Security Act.
(b)
When an election must be filed.
An election to have the RLS paid must be filed before the widow(er) or parent attains age 60 if he or she would be entitled to benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act, or before the age of eligibility if he or she would be entitled to future benefits under the Social Security Act instead of the Railroad Retirement Act.
(c)
Filing an election.
An election to have the RLS paid must be made on the certification provided by the Board for that purpose, and must contain an irrevocable election to have the RLS paid in lieu of all benefits based on the employee's railroad service to which the widow(er) or parent might otherwise become entitled. Once the RLS check is negotiated, the election cannot be revoked.
§ 234.48
Computation of the gross RLS amount.
The amount of the gross RLS is equal to the percentages of the employee's creditable compensation shown in Table I. However, compensation may only be credited up to the maximum amounts shown in Table II.
(a)
Percentages of the employee's creditable compensation and the periods to which those percentages apply:
Table I
Percent
Period
4
Jan. 1, 1937 through December 1946.
7
Jan. 1, 1947 through December 1958.
7.5
Jan. 1, 1959 through December 1961.
8
Jan. 1, 1962 through December 1965.
8.1
Jan. 1, 1966 through December 1966.
8.65
Jan. 1, 1967 through December 1967.
8.8
Jan. 1, 1968 through December 1968.
9.45
Jan. 1, 1969 through December 1970.
9.85
Jan. 1, 1971 through December 1972.
10.1
Jan. 1, 1973 through September 1973.
5.35
Oct. 1, 1973 through December 1973.
5.45
Jan. 1, 1974 through December 1974.
(b)
Maximum compensation which may be credited per month:
Table II
Compensation per Month
Period
$300
Jan. 1, 1937 through June 1954.
$350
July 1, 1954 through May 1959.
$400
June 1, 1959 through October 1963.
$450
Nov. 1, 1963 through December 1965.
$550
Jan. 1, 1966 through December 1967.
$650
Jan. 1, 1968 through December 1971.
$750
Jan. 1, 1972 through December 1972.
$900
Jan. 1, 1973 through December 1973.
$1,100
Jan. 1, 1974 through December 1974.

# Subpart E—Lump-Sum Refund Payment
§ 234.50
General.
Under the 1974 Act, railroad employees with 10 or more years of railroad
service, who are not entitled to a vested dual benefit payment, may be eligible for a lump-sum refund payment if they had concurrent railroad and social security earnings within the period 1951 through 1974. The combined earnings from the railroad retirement and social security systems in any of those years must exceed the maximums given in § 234.53. The lump-sum refund is payable to either the employee or the employee's survivors.
§ 234.51
Persons to whom a lump-sum refund payment is payable.
Employees receive their lump-sum refund payment from the Board, without applying for it, at the time their regular annuity is awarded. If an employee dies without receiving payment of a regular annuity, the lump-sum refund payment is payable to the employee's survivors in the same order of priority as shown for the RLS in § 234.44.
§ 234.52
Effect of payment on other benefits.
The lump-sum refund payment is deductible from the RLS; however, it has no effect on the payment of other benefits.
§ 234.53
Computation of the lump-sum refund payment.
(a) The lump-sum refund payment is calculated as follows:
(1) Combine the railroad employee's creditable earnings, including military service, under the Social Security Act and Railroad Retirement Act for each of the years 1951 through 1974;
(2) Determine the amount of the employee's creditable earnings in excess of the amounts for each year shown in the chart in paragraph (b) of this section;
(3) Multiply the results of paragraph (a)(2) of this section by the percentage shown in the chart in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(4) Add the results of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The total is the amount of the lump-sum refund payment.
(b)
Chart for calculation of lump-sum refund payment.
Year
Amount
Percentage
1951-53
$3,600
1.5
1954-56
4,200
2.0
1957-58
4,200
2.25
1959
4,800
2.5
1960-61
4,800
3.0
1962
4,800
3.125
1963-65
5,400
3.625
1966
6,600
4.2
1967
6,600
4.4
1968
7,800
3.3
1969-70
7,800
4.2
1971
7,800
4.6
1972
9,000
4.6
1973
10,800
4.85
1974
13,200
4.95

# Subpart F—Tier II Separation Allowance Lump-Sum Payment

# Source:
56 FR 1573, Jan. 16, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 234.55
General.
Under the Railroad Retirement Act certain railroad employees who have received separation or severance payments may be entitled to a lump-sum payment if tier II railroad retirement taxes were deducted from these payments. This part sets forth the conditions for entitlement to the lump-sum payment and explains how the payment is computed.
§ 234.56
Persons to whom a separation allowance lump-sum payment is payable.
(a) An employee who has completed 10 years of service at the time of his or her retirement or death and who has received on or after January 1, 1985, a separation allowance or severance payment (see § 210.11 of this chapter) which would have been used to increase his or her tier II benefit, except for the fact that he or she was neither in an employment relation to one or more employers as defined in part 204 of this chapter nor an employee representative (see part 205 of this chapter), shall be entitled to a lump sum in the amount provided for in § 234.58.
(b) If an employee, otherwise eligible for the lump sum provided for in this section, dies before he or she becomes entitled to a regular annuity or before he or she receives payment of the lump sum, the lump sum is payable to the employee's widow or widower who will not have died before receiving payment. If the employee is not survived
by a widow or widower who will not have died before receiving payment, the lump sum is payable to the employee's survivors in the same order of priority as shown for the residual lump-sum (RLS) in § 234.44.
§ 234.57
Effect of payment on other benefits.
The tier II separation allowance lump-sum payment has no effect on the payment of other benefits.
§ 234.58
Computation of the separation allowance lump-sum payment.
The separation allowance lump-sum payment is calculated as follows:
(a) Determine the amount of the compensation due to the receipt of separation or severance pay that could not be considered in the computation of tier II;
(b) Multiply this amount by the rate or rates of tax imposed by section 3201(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or 1986 on the compensation (tier II tax); and
(c) The product is the amount of the separation allowance lump-sum payment.

# Example:
In January of 1988 an employee with 10 years of railroad service relinquished his seniority rights in order to receive a separation allowance of $20,000, thereby severing his employment relation. This was the only creditable railroad compensation earned by the employee in 1988. Both the employer and employee would have paid their share of railroad retirement taxes on this amount. With respect to the employee tier II tax, the tax rate for 1988 was 4.9% under section 3201(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Although the full $20,000 was creditable under the Railroad Retirement Act for tier I benefit computation purposes, only one month's compensation, $2,800, one-twelfth of the annual tier II earnings base of $33,600 for 1988, was creditable for tier II benefit purposes. This is because section 3(i)(4) of the Railroad Retirement Act does not permit crediting of compensation for tier II computation purposes after the employment relation has been severed. Under the lump-sum provision discussed above, the employee in this example would, upon award of his employee annuity, receive a payment of $842.80 ($20,000 minus $2,800, the amount of separation allowance that was creditable, or $17,200 times 4.9%).

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous

# Source:
51 FR 3036, Jan. 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 56 FR 1573, Jan. 16, 1991.
§ 234.60
Escheat.
Any payment under this part which would be payable to any state, political subdivision of a state, the U.S. government or a foreign government because of the lack of a legal heir, shall remain in the Railroad Retirement Account.
§ 234.61
Assignment of interest by an eligible person.
(a) Any person who is eligible to receive a share of a lump-sum payment may assign his or her share to another eligible applicant, provided the share is not more than $500.
(b) If an LSDP or accrued annuity is payable, the request that a share be assigned must be received at a Board office no later than two years after the death of the employee or the originally entitled person.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0031)
§ 234.62
Effect of conviction of a felony on entitlement.
A person who has been convicted of a felony or an act in the nature of a felony of intentionally causing the employee's death shall not be entitled to any benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act. If a charge of felony is pending against an applicant for a lump-sum payment, the Board will make no payment until the applicant submits proof that the charge has been withdrawn, that no further action will be taken on the charge, or that he or she has been cleared of the charge.
Pt. 235

# PART 235—PAYMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS BY THE RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD
Sec.
235.1
Basis and purpose.
235.2
Other regulations related to this part.
235.3
Who is paid social security benefits by the Board.
235.4
How the Board pays social security benefits.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 405(i), 45 U.S.C. 231f.

# Source:
54 FR 5225, Feb. 2, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 235.1
Basis and purpose.
Effective January 1, 1975, the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 (Act) requires the Railroad Retirement Board (Board) to provide for the payment of monthly social security benefit payments on behalf of the Social Security Administration to certain individuals as described in § 235.3 of this part. However, any such individual who was receiving benefits from the Social Security Administration prior to January 1, 1975, will continue to receive benefits from that agency unless he or she becomes eligible for a different type of social security benefit after that date and files a new application with the Social Security Administration for that benefit. Benefits under the new entitlement will be paid by the Board. The Act provides an offset in the railroad retirement benefits of individuals who are also eligible for social security benefits. Because the Board is required to make this offset, the payment of social security benefits by the Board is authorized for the purpose of convenience in the administration of the Act.
§ 235.2
Other regulations related to this part.
This part is related to a number of other parts in this chapter:
(a) Part 216 describes when a person is eligible for an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act.
(b) Part 222 defines family relationships (for example, who is the wife or widow of an employee) for use when it is necessary to establish such a relationship in order to receive a benefit under the Railroad Retirement Act.
§ 235.3
Who is paid social security benefits by the Board.
The following individuals, if entitled to social security benefits, are paid such benefits by the Board:
(a) A railroad employee who has been credited with at least 120 months of railroad service (or at least 60 months of railroad service, all of which accrue after December 31, 1995);
(b) A wife or husband of a railroad employee who has been credited with at least 120 months of railroad service (or at least 60 months of railroad service, all of which accrue after December 31, 1995);
(c) A divorced wife or husband of a railroad employee who has been credited with at least 120 months of railroad service (or at least 60 months of railroad service, all of which accrue after December 31, 1995);
(d) A survivor of a railroad employee, including a surviving divorced spouse, remarried widow(er), surviving divorced mother or father, who is entitled, or upon application would be entitled, to an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act; and
(e) Any other person entitled to benefits under title II of the Social Security Act based on the social security wages of a railroad employee who has been credited with at least 120 months of railroad service (or at least 60 months of railroad service, all of which accrue after December 31, 1995), except survivors of a railroad employee when the Social Security Administration has jurisdiction for survivor benefits. See part 221 of this chapter.
[54 FR 5225, Feb. 2, 1989, as amended at 89 FR 47463, June 3, 2024]
§ 235.4
How the Board pays social security benefits.
(a) When an individual described in § 235.3 of this part is determined by the Social Security Administration to be entitled to social security benefits, the Social Security Administration certifies such benefits to the Board for payment by the Board. Once social security entitlement is certified to the Board, the Board then certifies the amount of the social security benefit to the Department of the Treasury for payment and makes any necessary adjustments in the individual's railroad retirement benefit.
(b) The Board has no authority with respect to the adjudication of the benefit to be paid under the Social Security Act. Entitlement to and the computation of such benefits is a matter solely within the jurisdiction of the Social Security Administration.
PARTS 236-240 [RESERVED]
Pt. 243

# PART 243—TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT, OR WAIVER OF PAYMENTS
Sec.
243.1
Prohibition against garnishment.
243.2
Legal process for the enforcement of child support and alimony obligations.
243.3
Payments pursuant to court decree or court-approved property settlement.
243.4
Taxation of benefits.
243.5
Assignment of a portion of an annuity paid under the social security overall minimum provision.
243.6
Waiver of annuity payments.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f(b)(5).

# Source:
53 FR 35806, Sept. 15, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 243.1
Prohibition against garnishment.
Except as hereinafter provided in this part, no benefits paid under the Railroad Retirement Act are assignable or subject to any tax or to garnishment, attachment, or other legal process (including any order issued by any court in connection with a bankruptcy proceeding), nor shall any payment be anticipated.
§ 243.2
Legal process for the enforcement of child support and alimony obligations.
Benefits paid by the Board are subject to legal process brought for the enforcement of legal obligations to provide child support or to make alimony payments, as provided in part 350 of this chapter.
§ 243.3
Payments pursuant to court decree or court-approved property settlement.
Certain annuity components are subject to division pursuant to a court decree or to a court-approved property settlement incident to any such decree, as provided in part 295 of this chapter.
§ 243.4
Taxation of benefits.
(a) Annuities paid by the Board are subject to Federal income tax in accord with the Internal Revenue Code. The annuity portion equivalent to the amount of the benefit that the person would have actually received under the Social Security Act if railroad service had been creditable under that Act is treated for Federal income tax purposes the same way as a social security benefit. Annuity payments computed under the social security overall minimum provision contained in section 3(f)(3) of the Railroad Retirement Act (see § 243.5 of this part) are also treated as social security benefits for Federal income tax purposes. Railroad retirement annuity amounts exceeding social security equivalent payments, vested dual benefits, and supplemental annuities are taxed in the same manner as benefits provided under an employer plan which meets the requirements of section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(b) Pursuant to section 14 of the Railroad Retirement Act, no annuity or supplemental annuity, in whole or in part, is subject to any tax by any state or any political subdivision thereof.
§ 243.5
Assignment of a portion of an annuity paid under the social security overall minimum provision.
Section 3(f)(3) of the Railroad Retirement Act, the social security overall minimum provision, guarantees that an annuitant will receive, in combined benefits under the Railroad Retirement and Social Security Acts, not less than the amount which would have been paid to the employee and to members of his or her family under the Social Security Act if the employee's railroad service had been creditable under that Act. An annuitant whose annuity is computed under that provision may assign all or any portion of that annuity to any of the members of his or her family who are or who could be included in the computation of the annuity. Any assignment issued pursuant to this section will terminate:
(a) When revoked by the annuitant by notification to the Board; or
(b) When the annuity is no longer computed under the social security overall minimum provision.
§ 243.6
Waiver of annuity payments.
(a) Any individual who has been awarded an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act shall have the right to waive such annuity in whole or in part by filing with the Board a statement to that effect signed by him or her.
(b) Such a waiver shall be effective as of the date specified in the waiver
statement, except that if an annuity has been awarded, a waiver shall not be effective before the first day of the month after the month in which the waiver form is received at an office of the Board and shall not be effective as to any annuity payment which has already been made or which cannot be prevented.
(c) For the period during which a waiver is in effect, no payment of the amount of the annuity waived can ever be made to any person. A waiver of an annuity shall not, however, have any effect on the amount of a spouse's annuity otherwise payable or on a lump sum under section 6(c) of the Act otherwise due, nor shall it serve to make an individual eligible for a lump-sum death benefit under section 6(b) of the Act or any insurance benefit under the Social Security Act on the basis of the wages of the same deceased employee.
(d) A waiver once made shall continue in effect until the annuitant requests in writing that it be terminated.
PART 250 [RESERVED]
Pt. 255

# PART 255—RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENTS
Sec.
255.1
Introduction.
255.2
Overpayments.
255.3
When overpayments are to be recovered.
255.4
Persons from whom overpayments may be recovered.
255.5
Recovery by cash payment.
255.6
Recovery by setoff.
255.7
Recovery by deduction in computation of death benefit.
255.8
Recovery by adjustment in connection with subsequent payments.
255.9
Individual enrolled under supplementary medical insurance plan.
255.10
Waiver of recovery.
255.11
Fault.
255.12
When recovery is contrary to the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act.
255.13
When recovery is against equity or good conscience.
255.14
Waiver not available when recovery can be made from accrual of social security benefits.
255.15
Waiver to an estate.
255.16
Administrative relief from recovery.
255.17
Recovery of overpayments from a representative payee.
255.18
Compromise of overpayments.
255.19
Suspension or termination of the collection of overpayments.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f(b)(5); 45 U.S.C. 231i.

# Source:
62 FR 64163, Dec. 4, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 255.1
Introduction.
Section 10 of the Railroad Retirement Act provides for the recovery of an overpayment of benefits to an individual. This part explains when an overpayment must be recovered, from whom an overpayment may be recovered, and when recovery of the overpayment may be waived or administrative relief from recovery granted, and circumstances under which the overpayment may be compromised, or circumstances under which recovery of the overpayment may be suspended or terminated.
§ 255.2
Overpayments.
An overpayment, within the meaning of this part, is made in any case in which an individual receives a payment under the Railroad Retirement Act, all or part of which payment he or she is not entitled to receive.
§ 255.3
When overpayments are to be recovered.
Overpayments shall be recovered in all cases except those in which recovery is waived under § 255.10 of this part or administrative relief from recovery is granted under § 255.16 of this part, or where the overpayment is compromised or recovery is terminated or suspended under § 255.18 or § 255.19 of this part.
§ 255.4
Persons from whom overpayments may be recovered.
(a)
Overpaid individual.
The Board may recover an overpayment from the individual to whom the overpayment has been made by any method permitted by this part, or by the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR chapter 2) (Example 1 of this section). If the overpaid individual dies before recovery is completed, then recovery may be effected by recovery from the estate or the heirs of such individual.
(b)
Other than overpaid individual.
The Board may recover an overpayment from a person other than the overpaid individual if such person is receiving
benefits based upon the same record of compensation as the overpaid individual under a statute administered by the Board. In such a case, the Board will ordinarily recover the overpayment by setoff against such benefits as are provided for in § 255.6 of this part (Example 2 of this section). However, the Board may ask for a cash refund of the overpayment.
(c)
Individual not in the same household.
Recovery under paragraph (b) of this section may be made from an individual who was not living in the same household, as defined in part 216 of this chapter, as the overpaid individual at the time of the overpayment, if the individual from whom recovery is to be made either was aware that benefits were being paid incorrectly or benefitted from the overpayment. (Example 3 of this section).
(d)
Examples.
This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1).
An employee receiving a disability annuity returns to work without notifying the Board. The Board discovers that the employee is working and determines that the employee has recovered from his disability and has been overpaid. The Board requests that the employee repay the overpayment by cash refund either in one lump sum or in installment payments. If the employee refuses, the Board may refer the debt to a collection agency or the Department of Justice for civil suit or may collect the debt in any other manner permitted by law.

# Example (2).
The employee in Example 1 agrees to refund the overpayment by cash installment payments. However, the employee dies before repaying the total amount of the overpayment. At his death the employee's widow, who was living with the employee at the time the overpayment was incurred, becomes entitled to a widow's annuity. The Board may recover the remainder of the overpayment from any benefits due the widow.

# Example (3).
C, a child of a deceased employee by his first marriage, is receiving a disability annuity on the employee's record of compensation. W, the employee's second wife, is receiving a widow's annuity on the employee's record of compensation. C lives with his mother, the employee's first wife. C marries without notifying the Board. Marriage terminates a child's annuity. W is not aware of C's marriage. Upon discovery of C's marriage, the Board demands that C refund the overpaid annuities; C refuses. Even though W is receiving an annuity based upon the same record of compensation as that of C, the Board will not recover the overpayment from W because she is not in the same household as C, was not aware of the incorrect benefits paid, and did not benefit from them.
§ 255.5
Recovery by cash payment.
The Board shall have the right to require that an overpayment to an individual be immediately and fully repaid in cash by that individual. However, if the Board determines that the individual is financially unable to pay the amount of the indebtedness in a lump sum, payment may be accepted in regular installments in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards, found in 4 CFR chapter 2. These standards provide that whenever possible installment payments should be sufficient in amounts and frequency to liquidate the debt in not more than 3 years.
§ 255.6
Recovery by setoff.
An overpayment may be recovered by setoff from any subsequent payment determined to be payable under any statute administered by the Board to the individual who received the overpayment. An overpayment may be recovered from someone other than the overpaid individual by setoff from a subsequent payment determined to be payable to that other individual on the basis of the same record of compensation as that of the overpaid individual.
§ 255.7
Recovery by deduction in computation of death benefit.
In computing the residual lump sum provided for in part 234, subpart D, of this chapter, the Board shall include in the benefits to be deducted from the applicable percentages of the aggregate compensation provided for in that part all overpayments, whether waived under § 255.10 of this part or otherwise not recovered, that were paid to the employee or to his or her spouse or to his or her survivors with respect to the employee's employment.
§ 255.8
Recovery by adjustment in connection with subsequent payments.
(a) Recovery of an overpayment may be made by permanently reducing the amount of any annuity payable to the individual or individuals from whom
recovery is sought. This method of recovery is called an actuarial adjustment of the annuity. The Board cannot require any individual to take an actuarial adjustment in order to recover an overpayment nor is an actuarial adjustment available as a matter of right. An actuarial adjustment becomes effective and the debt is considered recovered when, in the case of an individual paid by electronic funds transfer, the first annuity payment reflecting the annuity rate after actuarial adjustment is deposited to the account of the overpaid individual, or, in the case of an individual paid by check, the first annuity check reflecting the annuity rate after actuarial adjustment is negotiated.

# Example.
An annuitant agrees to recovery of a $5,000 overpayment by actuarial adjustment. However, the annuitant dies before negotiating the first annuity check reflecting the actuarially-reduced rate. The $5,000 is not considered recovered. If the annuitant had negotiated the check before he died, the $5,000 would be considered fully recovered.
(b) In calculating any adjustment under this section, beginning with the first day of January after the tables and long-term or ultimate interest rate go into effect under section 15(g) of the Railroad Retirement Act (the triennial evaluation), the Board shall use those tables and long-term or ultimate interest rate.
[63 FR 29548, June 1, 1998]
§ 255.9
Individual enrolled under supplementary medical insurance plan.
Where recovery of the overpayment is by setoff as provided for in § 255.6 of this part, and where recovery of the overpayment by such means will be accomplished within a period of 5 months, and the individual from whom recovery is sought is an enrollee under Part B of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Supplementary Medical Insurance Benefits for the Aged and Disabled), an amount of such individual's monthly benefit which is equal to his or her obligation for supplementary medical insurance premiums will be applied toward payment of such premiums, and the balance of the monthly benefit will be applied toward recovery of the overpayment.
§ 255.10
Waiver of recovery.
There shall be no recovery from any person in any case where more than the correct amount of annuities or other benefits has been paid to an individual or where payment has been made to an individual not entitled thereto if in the judgment of the Board:
(a) The overpaid individual is without fault, and
(b) Recovery would be contrary to the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act or would be against equity or good conscience.
§ 255.11
Fault.
(a) Before recovery of an overpayment may be waived, it must be determined that the overpaid individual was without fault in causing the overpayment. If recovery is sought from other than the overpaid individual but the overpaid individual was not without fault, then waiver is not available. However, see § 255.16 of this part for provisions as to when administrative relief from recovery may be granted in such circumstances.
(b) Fault means a defect of judgment or conduct arising from inattention or bad faith. Judgment or conduct is defective when it deviates from a standard of reasonable care taken to comply with the entitlement provisions of this chapter. Conduct includes both action and inaction. Unlike fraud, fault does not require a deliberate intent to deceive.
(c) Whether an individual is at fault in causing an overpayment generally depends on all circumstances surrounding the overpayment. Among the factors the Board will consider are: the ability of the overpaid individual to understand the reporting requirements of the Railroad Retirement Act or to realize that he or she is being overpaid (
e.g.,
age, education, comprehension, physical and mental condition); the particular cause of non-entitlement to benefits; and the number of instances in which the individual may have made erroneous statements.
(d)(1) Circumstances in which the Board will find an individual at fault include but are not limited to:
(i) Failure to furnish to the Railroad Retirement Board information which
the individual knew or should have known to be material;
(ii) An incorrect statement made by the individual which he or she knew or should have known was incorrect (including furnishing an opinion or conclusion when asked for facts); and
(iii) Failure to return a payment which the individual knew or should have known was incorrect.
(2) Where any of the circumstances listed in paragraph (d)(1) are found to have occurred, the individual shall be presumed to be not without fault. This presumption may be rebutted, but the burden of presenting evidence to rebut the presumption is on the individual.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(i), furnishing information to the Social Security Administration or any other agency shall not be considered to constitute furnishing information to the Railroad Retirement Board.
(4) For purposes of this section, an error on the part of the agency shall not extinguish fault on the part of the individual.
(e) Circumstances in which the Board will find an individual not at fault include but are not limited to:
(1) The overpayment is the result of Board error of which the overpaid individual was not aware and could not reasonably have been expected to be aware (Example 1 of this section).
(2) The overpayment is the result of an adjustment to the overpaid individual's annuity because of entitlement of another individual to an annuity on the same record of compensation as that of the overpaid individual (Example 2 of this section).
(3) The overpayment is the result of the Board's continuing to pay an individual after he or she has notified the Board of an event which caused or should have caused a reduction in his or her benefit; provided that continued payment of the unreduced benefit led the individual to believe in good faith that he or she was entitled to the payments subsequently received.
(f) The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1).
The Board makes a mathematical error in the computation of an employee's annuity, thus giving the employee a higher rate than he or she is entitled to but which is sufficiently close to the estimated rate given the employee at the time he or she applied for the annuity that the employee believed, in good faith, that the amount was correct. The employee is not at fault in causing the overpayment in this case. The overpayment may be waived if the requirements of § 255.12 or § 255.13 of this part are met.

# Example (2).
The widow and four minor children of a railroad employee are receiving benefits from the Board under the family maximum. Another minor child not living in the same household as the above individuals is also determined to be the child of the deceased employee. The widow was not aware of the existence of this child. An award of benefits to this child causes a reduction in benefits to the other individuals under the family maximum benefit provision of the Social Security Act. Because of normal administrative delay this reduction does not take place for a period of 2 months after its effective date. The widow and her children are without fault with respect to this overpayment. The overpayment may be waived if the requirements of § 255.12 or § 255.13 of this part are met.
§ 255.12
When recovery is contrary to the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act.
(a) The purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act is to pay retirement and survivor annuities and other benefits to eligible beneficiaries. It is contrary to the purpose of the Act for an overpayment to be recovered from income and resources which the individual requires to meet ordinary and necessary living expenses. If either income or resources, or a combination thereof, are sufficient to meet such expenses, recovery of an overpayment is not contrary to the purpose of the Act.
(b) For purposes of this section, income includes any funds which may reasonably be considered available for the individual's use, regardless of source, including inheritance prospects. Income to the individual's spouse or dependents is available to the individual if the spouse or dependent lived with the individual at the time waiver is considered. Types of income include but are not limited to:
(1) Government benefits, such as Black Lung, Social Security, Workers' Compensation, and Unemployment Compensation benefits;
(2) Wages and self-employment income;
(3) Regular incoming payments, such as rent or pensions; and
(4) Investment income.
(c) For purposes of this section, resources may include:
(1) Liquid assets, such as cash on hand, the value of stocks, bonds, savings accounts, mutual funds and the like;
(2) Non-liquid assets (except an individual's primary residence) at their fair market value; and
(3) Accumulated, unpaid Federal benefits.
(4) For purposes of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, assets concealed or improperly transferred on and after the date of notification of the overpayment, other than cash expended to meet ordinary and necessary living expenses, shall be included.
(d) Whether an individual has sufficient income and resources to meet ordinary and necessary living expenses depends not only on the amount of his or her income and resources, but also on whether the expenses are ordinary and necessary. While the level of expenses which is ordinary and necessary may vary among individuals, it must be held at a level reasonable for an individual who is living on a fixed income. The Board will consider the discretionary nature of an expense in determining whether it is reasonable. Ordinary and necessary living expenses include:
(1) Fixed living expenses such as food and clothing, rent, mortgage payments, utilities, maintenance, insurance (
e.g.,
life, accident, and health insurance), taxes, installment payments, etc.;
(2) Medical, hospital, and other similar expenses;
(3) Expenses for the support of others for whom the individual is legally responsible; and
(4) Miscellaneous expenses (
e.g.,
newspapers, haircuts).
(e) Where recovery of the full amount of an overpayment would be made from income and resources required to meet ordinary and necessary living expenses, but recovery of a lesser amount would leave income or resources sufficient to meet such expenses, recovery of the lesser amount is not contrary to the purpose of the Act.
(f) This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1).
A remarried widow, W, is overpaid $6000 due to receipt of benefits on the wage records of both her late husbands. It has been determined that she is without fault. Her financial disclosure statement reveals monthly income greater than monthly expenses, and assets of $12,000, $10,000 of which is in cash. She claims to be saving these funds for future medical expenses, because she has a progressive disease. While it is not necessarily contrary to the purposes of the Act to recover the overpayment in these circumstances, the legitimate medical expenses associated with the disease must be considered.

# Example (2).
A disability annuitant, D, is overpaid $33,000 because of simultaneous entitlement to workers' compensation payments. He is determined to be without fault. He claims he has assumed financial responsibility for his adult child and her children. A claimed expense for which the annuitant has no legal obligation to pay does not make recovery contrary to the purposes of the Act.
§ 255.13
When recovery is against equity or good conscience.
(a) Recovery is considered to be against equity or good conscience if a person, in reliance on payments made to him or her or on notice that payment would be made, relinquished a significant and valuable right (Example 1 of this section) or changed his or her position to his or her substantial detriment (Example 2 of this section).
(b) An individual's ability to repay an overpayment is not material to a finding that recovery would be against equity or good conscience but is relevant with respect to the credibility of a claim of detrimental reliance under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1).
After being informed by the Board that he had been credited with sufficient years of railroad service to retire at age 60, an employee quit his railroad job and applied for benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act. He receives benefits for six months when it is discovered that he had insufficient railroad service to retire at age 60 and was not entitled to the benefits he received. His annuity was terminated. Because the employee gave up his seniority rights when he quit his railroad job, he cannot get his job back. It is determined that the employee was not at fault in causing the overpayments. In this situation recovery of the overpayment would be against equity or
good conscience because the overpaid individual gave up a valuable right.

# Example (2).
A widow, having been awarded annuities for herself and her daughter, entered her daughter in a private school. The widow did not have substantial assets and her income, apart from the annuities she received in the amounts payable, would not have been sufficient for her to have undertaken the obligation to send her daughter to private school. In order to pay for the schooling she took out a loan and used the monthly annuities to pay interest and principal on the loan. After the widow and her daughter had received payments for almost a year, the deceased employee was found not to have been insured under the Railroad Retirement Act. Therefore, all payments to the widow and child were erroneous and the annuities were terminated. It is determined that the widow was not at fault in causing the overpayment. Having incurred a financial obligation (the school loan) toward which the benefits had been applied, the widow was in a worse position financially than if she and her daughter had never been entitled to benefits. In this situation, the recovery of the overpayment would be against equity or good conscience.
§ 255.14
Waiver not available when recovery can be made from accrual of social security benefits.
Where the overpayment is the result of a reduction of benefits payable under the Railroad Retirement Act due to the overpaid individual's entitlement to social security benefits and recovery of such overpayment may be made by offset against an accrual of social security benefits, it shall not be considered to be against equity or good conscience or contrary to the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act to recover the overpayment by offset against the accrual. Consequently, in such a case recovery of an overpayment is not subject to waiver consideration.
§ 255.15
Waiver to an estate.
It shall never be considered contrary to the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act to recover an overpayment from the estate of an overpaid individual.
§ 255.16
Administrative relief from recovery.
(a) Where the Board seeks to recover an overpayment from someone other than the overpaid individual, as provided for in § 255.4 of this part, and where waiver of recovery, as provided for in § 255.10 of this part, is not available because the overpaid individual was at fault as defined in § 255.11 of this part, the Board may forego recovery of the overpayment where the individual from whom recovery is sought was not at fault in causing the overpayment and where recovery is contrary to the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act as defined in § 255.12 of this part.
(b) Application of administrative relief from recovery with respect to a given person from whom recovery may be made shall have no effect on the authority of the Board to recover the overpayment from anyone else from whom recovery may be sought.
(c) This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1):
An employee, through his own fault, causes an overpayment in his annuity. The employee dies before the overpayment can be recovered from him and he leaves no estate. A widow's annuity is payable on the employee's compensation record. The widow was not at fault in causing the overpayment. The Board may recover the remainder of the overpayment by setoff against the widow's annuity. However, it may forego recovery under this section if such recovery would be contrary to the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act as defined in § 255.12 of this part. Since this is not a waiver of the overpayment, the Board is free to recover the overpayment from the widow at a later date, for example, if an accrual of benefits should become payable, or if it determines that such recovery would not be against the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act.

# Example (2):
A representative payee for a retarded child, through her own fault, causes an overpayment in the child's annuity. The overpaid amounts were used for the benefit of the child. The representative payee dies before the overpayment can be recovered from her and she leaves no estate. The Board may not waive the remainder of the overpayment with respect to the child since for purposes of waiver the representative payee is considered the overpaid individual (see § 255.17 of this part) and the overpaid individual was at fault. However, if the child was not at fault in causing the overpayment and recovery would be contrary to the purpose of the Railroad Retirement Act as defined in § 255.12 of this part, then the Board may forego recovery of the overpayment from the child's annuity under this section.
§ 255.17
Recovery of overpayments from a representative payee.
(a)
Joint liability.
In general, if an overpayment is made to an individual receiving benefits as a representative payee (see part 266 of this chapter) the Board may recover the overpayment from either the representative payee or the beneficiary, or both. If the beneficiary is currently receiving benefits, either in his or her own right or through a representative payee, the Board will generally propose to recover the overpayment by setoff against those benefits as provided for in § 255.6 of this part. If the beneficiary is not currently receiving benefits but the representative payee is receiving benefits, then the Board will generally propose to recover the overpayment by setoff against those benefits.
(b)
Waiver of overpayments.
For purposes of § 255.10 of this part (Waiver of recovery), if it is determined that the representative payee was at fault in causing the overpayment there may be no waiver of the overpayment either as to the representative payee or the beneficiary. However, if the beneficiary was not at fault in causing the overpayment he or she may be eligible for administrative relief from recovery under § 255.16 of this part.
(c) This section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example (1).
M is receiving a child's annuity as a representative payee for her disabled son, S. With M's knowledge S marries. Although both M and S know that marriage terminates the child's annuity, neither of them informs the Board of this event. Both M and S are liable for any overpayment caused. Waiver is not available since M would be considered at fault in causing the overpayment. Administrative relief from recovery is not available to S since he would also be considered at fault.

# Example (2).
R is a representative payee for B, who resides in a skilled-care facility. R is found to be at fault in causing an overpayment of benefits to B. The Board may recover the overpayment from either R or B. Waiver is not available because R was at fault in causing the overpayment. However, if B was not at fault in causing the overpayment he or she may be entitled to administrative relief from recovery under § 255.16 of this part.
§ 255.18
Compromise of overpayments.
(a) This section sets forth the principal standards which the Board applies in exercising its authority under 31 U.S.C. 3711 to compromise an overpayment. In addition, the Board may compromise an overpayment under the Federal Claims Collection Standards set forth in 4 CFR part 103.
(b) An overpayment may be compromised only if it is in the best interest of the agency. Circumstances and factors to be considered are:
(1) The overpayment cannot be collected because of the overpaid individual's inability to pay the full amount of the overpayment within a reasonable time;
(2) The overpaid individual refuses to pay the overpayment in full and it appears that enforced collection procedures will take an inordinate amount of time or that the cost of collecting does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount; or
(3) There is doubt that the Board could prove its case in court for the full amount claimed because of a bona fide dispute as to the facts or because of the legal issues involved.
§ 255.19
Suspension or termination of the collection of overpayments.
This section sets forth the principal standards which the Board applies in approving the suspension or termination of the collection of an overpayment. In addition the Board may suspend or terminate collection under the Federal Claims Collection Standards set forth in 4 CFR part 104.
(a) Collection action on a Board claim may be suspended temporarily when the debtor cannot be located and there is reason to believe future collection action may be productive or collection may be effected by offset in the near future.
(b) Collection action may be terminated when:
(1) The debtor is unable to make any substantial payment;
(2) The debtor cannot be located and offset is too remote to justify retention of the claim;
(3) The cost of collection action will exceed the amount recoverable; or
(4) The claim is legally without merit or cannot be substantiated by the evidence.
Pt. 258

# PART 258—HEARINGS BEFORE THE BOARD OR DESIGNATED EXAMINERS
Sec.
258.1
Hearings.
258.2
Witnesses.
258.3
Application for witnesses.
258.4
Service of subpoenas.
258.5
Exhibits.
258.6
Procedure when examiner appointed.
258.7
Board decisions and opinions and dissenting opinions.

# Authority:
Sec. 10, 50 Stat. 314, as amended; 45 U.S.C. 228j, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
43 FR 56888, Dec. 5, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 258.1
Hearings.
(a) To such extent as may be necessary to determine (1) the employee status of any individual or group of individuals, (2) the employer status of any person, and (3) any other matter arising out of or necessary for the administration of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act and the Railroad Retirement Acts of 1935, 1937, and 1974, other than those matters specifically provided for in parts 260 and 320 of this chapter, the Board may itself or through one of its members or a designated examiner, conduct hearings, require and compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of records and documents, administer oaths, take testimony, make all pertinent investigations and findings of fact, and render decisions upon such findings.
(b) Where the Board determines that an oral hearing is necessary to the determination of a matter before it, the Board shall notify all parties to the proceeding that a hearing will be conducted, and, if the hearing is to be before a single Board member or a designated examiner, the notice shall identify the member or examiner authorized to conduct the hearing. The Board or the person authorized to conduct the hearing shall fix a time and place for the holding of the hearing and shall notify all parties thereof.
§ 258.2
Witnesses.
(a) In any hearing held pursuant to the provisions of this part, witnesses may be compelled to appear, give testimony, and produce records and documents.
(b) Designation by the Board of any person as an examiner to preside at and conduct such hearings shall constitute a delegation of authority to such examiner to require and compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of records and documents, to administer oaths, and to take testimony.
§ 258.3
Application for witnesses.
(a) Any person or persons conducting a hearing pursuant to the provisions of this part or part 260 of this chapter may, upon such person's or persons' own motion or upon application of any party to such hearing, issue a subpoena for a witness or witnesses. An application for a subpoena shall be by affidavit filed with the person or persons conducting the hearing within such period of time as will permit service and return of a subpoena prior to the date set for the hearing at which the witness is to appear, but in no case shall such application be filed later than 10 days prior to the date of hearing. The application shall set forth:
(1) The name and address of the witness;
(2) The title of the matter to be heard, i.e., names of parties;
(3) The issue to which the testimony of the witness will be directed;
(4) The substance of the testimony which such witness is expected to give or the facts to which such witness will testify; and
(5) The specific books, papers or documents which are requested, if a subpoena duces tecum is applied for.
(b) In addition to the above, the party filing such application shall, at the time of filing, deposit therewith a sum of money sufficient to cover the fees and transportation allowance of the witness, or, in lieu thereof, shall state in the application that satisfactory arrangements have been made with the witness for the direct payment of his or her fees and transportation allowance and any other allowable expense.
§ 258.4
Service of subpoenas.
Service of subpoenas issued under § 258.3 may be made by any individual designated by the Board. Such individual shall deliver a copy of the subpoena to the person or persons named therein, and shall at that time tender to that person or persons the fees for one day's attendance and the transportation allowance authorized by law;
Provided, however,
That if the witness or witnesses be summoned to appear upon motion of the person or persons designated to conduct the hearing, no fees or transportation allowance need be tendered. Fees and transportation allowances shall be in the same amount as is allowed to witnesses in the courts of the United States. The person serving the subpoena shall make certification of the manner and time of service on the original subpoena and shall file such original subpoena with the person or persons by whom it was issued.
§ 258.5
Exhibits.
Copies of all exhibits admitted in evidence at any hearing held pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be furnished by the party offering the same to all other parties participating in the proceedings.
§ 258.6
Procedure when examiner appointed.
(a) Where an examiner has been designated by the Board under this part to conduct a hearing with respect to a matter before it, the examiner shall preside at the hearing and shall cause all testimony to be recorded. The examiner shall, as soon as practicable following the conclusion of the hearing, mail to each party at the address stated in his or her appearance a free transcript of the record of the proceedings had before the examiner. Thereafter, the examiner shall give all parties participating in the hearing the opportunity to present argument upon both law and facts. Upon conclusion of the proceedings before him or her, the examiner shall prepare a report which, together with the record of the proceedings before him or her, shall be submitted to the Board. The report shall set forth the examiner's findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommendations as to decision. The report may also contain such discussion of the question raised, both legal and factual, as the examiner may desire to present to the Board. A copy of the examiner's report shall be served by the examiner upon each party participating in the hearing by mailing such copy to each such party at the address stated in his or her appearance. Each party shall, within 30 days after the date of mailing to him or her of the examiner's report, file with the Board and serve upon other parties by mailing to their addresses as stated in their appearances such exceptions in writing as he or she desires to make to the examiner's findings of fact and conclusions of law. Each exception shall specifically designate the particular findings of fact or conclusions of law to which objection is taken, and shall set forth in detail the grounds for the objection. General exceptions and exceptions not specifically directed to particular findings of fact or conclusions of law will not be considered by the Board. Exceptions to findings of fact shall make specific reference by page numbers to those portions of the record upon which reliance is placed.
(b) Each party shall have 10 days after receipt of exceptions taken by other parties in which to file with the Board replies to those exceptions. Replies to exceptions to findings of fact shall make specific reference by page number to those portions of the record upon which reliance is placed.
(c) The Board may, upon the application of a party and for cause shown, extend the time for filing and serving of exceptions or filing of replies thereto. The Board will render its decision upon the record, the examiner's report, and such exceptions and replies thereto as are made.
(d) The examiner's report shall be advisory only and the Board may, in any case, exercise its right to reject or adopt the examiner's report in whole or in part or adopt such report with modifications. Findings of fact to which no exceptions are taken will, subject only to the power of the Board upon its own consideration to reject or modify, be presumed to be correct.
(e) The decision of the Board shall be communicated to the parties participating in the hearing within 30 days of the date upon which the decision of the Board is entered upon its records.
§ 258.7
Board decisions and opinions and dissenting opinions.
The following shall apply to all decisions of the Board except decisions relating to matters of internal administration:
A decision made by at least two members of the Board shall constitute the decision of the Board. The decision of the Board shall be stated in a written opinion filed in the record of the proceedings. A dissenting opinion may be stated by a member of the Board who disagrees with the decision of the Board and any such dissenting opinion shall also be filed in the record of the proceedings.
Pt. 259

# PART 259—INITIAL DETERMINATIONS AND APPEALS FROM INITIAL DETERMINATIONS WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYER STATUS AND EMPLOYEE STATUS
Sec.
259.1
Initial determinations with respect to employer and employee status.
259.2
Parties to determinations with respect to employer and employee status.
259.3
Reconsideration of initial determinations with respect to employer or employee status.
259.4
Authority to conduct investigations.
259.5
Appeals from decisions of the Board.
259.6
Finality of determinations issued under this part.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f; 45 U.S.C. 362(l).

# Source:
43 FR 56889, Dec. 5, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 259.1
Initial determinations with respect to employer and employee status.
(a) All requests for a determination with respect to employer or employee status shall be filed with the Secretary to the Board.
(b) The General Counsel of the Railroad Retirement Board or his or her designee shall make the initial investigations with respect to:
(1) The status of any person as an employer under the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act and the rules and regulations issued thereunder; and
(2) The status of any individual or group of individuals as an employee or employees of an employer covered under the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.
(c) Upon completion of this investigation the General Counsel, or his or her designee, shall submit to the Board the results of the investigation together with a recommendation concerning the coverage determination. The Board shall make the initial determination with respect to the status of any person as an employer or as an employee under the Railroad Retirement Act and Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. The Secretary to the Board shall promptly notify the party or parties, as defined in § 259.2 of this part, and other interested persons or entities of the Board's determination.
[57 FR 4366, Feb. 5, 1992]
§ 259.2
Parties to determinations with respect to employer and employee status.
(a) With respect to any determination under this part concerning the status of a person as an employer under the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, that person shall be a party to such determination and may submit written briefs or argument, as well as any documentary evidence pertinent to the matter at issue, to the decision maker to be considered in the rendition of a determination. The employees of such person may submit written briefs or argument with respect to such determination, but shall not be parties thereto.
(b) With respect to any determination under this part concerning the status of an individual or group of individuals as an employee or employees of an employer covered by the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, the employer alleged to be the employer of the individual or group of individuals and the individual or group of individuals shall each be considered a party to such determination and may submit
written briefs or argument, and documentary evidence pertinent to the matter at issue, to the decision maker to be considered in the rendition of a determination.
§ 259.3
Reconsideration of initial determinations with respect to employer or employee status.
(a) A party to an initial decision issued under § 259.1 shall have the right to request reconsideration of that decision. A request for reconsideration shall be in writing and must be filed with the Secretary to the Board within one year following the date on which the initial determination was issued. Where a request for reconsideration has been timely filed, the Secretary to the Board shall notify all other parties to the initial determination of such request. The party who requested reconsideration and any other party shall have the right to submit briefs or written argument, as well as any documentary evidence pertinent to the issue under consideration. The General Counsel or his or her designee shall review the material furnished all parties and shall submit it to the Board with a recommendation as to the determination upon reconsideration. The Board shall then issue a determination with respect to the request for reconsideration. The Secretary to the Board shall promptly notify all parties and other interested persons or entities of the determination upon reconsideration.
(b) A party who claims to be aggrieved by an initial decision of the Board but who fails to timely request reconsideration under this section shall forfeit any further right to appeal under this part.
[57 FR 4366, Feb. 5, 1992]
§ 259.4
Authority to conduct investigations.
In performing his or her responsibilities under § 259.1 or § 259.3, the General Counsel or his or her designee shall have the authority and the power to conduct any investigations he deems necessary. In addition, the General Counsel or his or her designee shall have the power to compel, by subpoena, any person, company, corporation, or other entity to produce any records or other documents pertinent to the matter under consideration.
(45 U.S.C. 231f(b)(5))
[43 FR 56889, Dec. 5, 1978, as amended at 48 FR 51447, Nov. 9, 1983; 57 FR 4366, Feb. 5, 1992]
§ 259.5
Appeals from decisions of the Board.
A party who claims to be aggrieved by a decision of the Board under this part may obtain review of such decision by filing a petition for review in the United States court of appeals for the circuit in which the party resides or has its principal place of business or principal executive office, in the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, or in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The petition for review must be filed within 90 days following the date on which the notice of the Board's decision was mailed to that party.
[43 FR 56889, Dec. 5, 1978. Redesignated at 57 FR 4366, Feb. 5, 1992]
§ 259.6
Finality of determinations issued under this part.
Any determination rendered by the Board at the initial or reconsideration stages shall be considered a final determination and shall be binding with respect to all parties unless reversed on reconsideration or upon judicial review. A final determination may be reopened at the request of a party who was, or could have been, a party to the final determination when the party alleges that the law or the facts upon which the final determination was based have changed sufficiently to warrant a contrary determination. Such a request shall be submitted to the Secretary to the Board, who shall consider such request as a request for an initial determination under § 259.1.
[57 FR 4366, Feb. 5, 1992]
Pt. 260

# PART 260—REQUESTS FOR RECONSIDERATION AND APPEALS WITHIN THE BOARD
Sec.
260.1
Initial decisions.
260.2
Initial decisions on the amount of service and compensation credited to an employee.
260.3
Request for reconsideration of initial decision.
260.4
Request for waiver of recovery of an overpayment and/or for reconsideration of an initial erroneous payment decision.
260.5
Appeal from a reconsideration decision.
260.6
Time limits for issuing a hearing decision.
260.7
Time limits for issuing a decision when a hearing is not held.
260.8
Pre-hearing case review.
260.9
Final appeal from a decision of the hearings officer.
260.10
Determination of date of filing.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f; 45 U.S.C. 231g; 45 U.S.C. 355.

# Source:
47 FR 36809, Aug. 24, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 260.1
Initial decisions.
(a)
General.
Claims for benefits shall be adjudicated and initial decisions made by the Board concerning:
(1) Applications for benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act;
(2) The withdrawal of an application;
(3) A change in an annuity beginning date;
(4) The termination of an annuity;
(5) The modification of the amount of an annuity or lump-sum benefit;
(6) The reinstatement of an annuity which had been terminated or modified;
(7) The existence of an erroneous payment;
(8) The recovery of the amount of an erroneous payment;
(9) The eligibility of an individual for a supplemental annuity or the amount of such supplemental annuity;
(10) Whether representative payment shall serve the best interests of an annuitant as a result of that individual's incapacity to manage his annuity payments; and
(11) Who shall be designated or continued as representative payee on behalf of an annuitant.
(b)
Adjudication of claim and the issuance of initial decision.
Adjudication of a claim and the issuance of an initial decision shall be in accordance with instructions issued by the Board and shall be made upon the basis of evidence submitted by the claimant and evidence otherwise available.
(c)
Recovery of erroneous payment.
A decision to recover the amount of an erroneous payment under paragraph (a)(8) of this section by suspension or reduction of a monthly benefit payable by the Board shall not be made prior to a date 30 calendar days after the date on which notice of the erroneous payment decision is sent to the beneficiary or payee of the benefit as provided in § 260.1(d)(6).
(d)
Notice of initial decision.
(1) In all cases except those described in paragraph (d)(2) through (4) and (6) of this section, written notice of an initial decision shall be mailed by the Board to the claimant, annuitant or payee of an annuity at the individual's last known address within 30 calendar days after such decision is made. Such notice shall inform the claimant, annuitant or payee of an annuity of the reason(s) for the decision and such individual's right to reconsideration of such initial decision as provided in § 260.3.
(2) No notice of an initial decision by the Board shall be required when the death of an annuitant causes the entitlement to an annuity to cease.
(3) When an initial decision is made that an annuitant's entitlement to a disability has ended, written notice of the decision shall be mailed to the annuitant or payee of an annuity at the annuitant's or payee's last known address. Such notice shall inform the annuitant or payee of an annuity:
(i) Of the date on which the recovery from disability is found to have occurred;
(ii) Of the reason(s) supporting such a finding of recovery;
(iii) That entitlement to the annuity ends on the last day of the second month after the month in which disability ends as described in § 220.181;
(iv) That the Board will stop payment of the annuitant's disability annuity with the last day of the second month following the month in which disability ends as described in § 220.181, or the last day of the first month following the month in which the notice provided by this paragraph is sent by the Board, whichever date is later:
(v) That any annuity payments received after entitlement has ended will have to be repaid unless waiver of recovery is appropriate;
(vi) That prior to the termination date of the annuity the annuitant or payee of an annuity may submit to the
Board any information in writing which the annuitant or payee desires to be considered by the Board in its review;
(vii) That if no information in writing is received by the Board before the termination date the annuity will be terminated as scheduled on that date; and
(viii) That the annuitant or payee has the right to reconsideration of such decision as provided in § 260.3.
(4) When an initial decision would result in the termination of an annuity for which there are competing claims or as a result of the receipt by the Board of information from a source other than the annuitant or payee of an annuity, written notice of the proposed decision shall be mailed to the annuitant or payee of an annuity at such annuitant's or payee's last known address. Such notice shall inform the annuitant or payee of an annuity:
(i) Of the reason(s) for the annuity termination;
(ii) That the annuitant or payee has 30 calendar days from the date of the notice to submit to the Board any information in writing which such annuitant or payee desires to be considered by the Board in its review;
(iii) That payment of the annuity will either cease or a decision to continue payment of such annuity shall be made after the Board has considered any information in writing which may be submitted to the Board within 30 calendar days from the date of the notice;
(iv) That if no information in writing is received within 30 calendar days from the date of the notice, payment of the annuity will cease at the end of that 30-day period; and
(v) That the annuitant or payee has the right to reconsideration of such decision as provided in § 260.3.
(5) Whenever the Board receives any significant information in writing from an annuitant or payee of an annuity as a result of mailing the notice described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the Board shall forward a copy of such information to each of the individuals who has filed a competing claim for such annuity informing them that:
(i) The annuity will either be terminated at the specified time or a decision to continue payment of the annuity will be made by the Board; and
(ii) They may respond to such information and their response will be considered by the Board provided that it is received by the Board within a reasonable time. When the Board decision in such case is to continue payment of the annuity, the Board shall send notice of such initial decision to each of the competing claimants in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(6) When an initial decision that an erroneous payment has been made to a beneficiary is made under paragraph (a)(7) of this section, written notice of that decision shall be mailed to the beneficiary or payee of the benefit at such beneficiary's or payee's last known address within 30 calendar days after such decision is made. Such notice shall inform the beneficiary or payee:
(i) Of the reason(s) for the decision;
(ii) Of the methods by which recovery may be made;
(iii) Of the possibility of waiver of recovery of the erroneous payment;
(iv) Of the conditions which must be met before waiver of recovery could be granted;
(v) That the beneficiary may request waiver of recovery of the erroneous payment and/or reconsideration of the erroneous payment decision as provided in § 260.4; and
(vi) Of the possibility of an oral hearing with respect to the issues of waiver of recovery and reconsideration of the erroneous payment decision.
[47 FR 36809, Aug. 24, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 39146, Sept. 25, 1990; 56 FR 13040, Mar. 28, 1991; 67 FR 77153, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 260.2
Initial decisions on the amount of service and compensation credited to an employee.
Within 30 days after receipt of a timely request by an employee for amendment with respect to the number of service months and amount of compensation credited to the employee by the Board under the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, the Board shall appoint a qualified employee to make a determination with respect to such matter. The employee appointed by the Board shall promptly render a decision.
Written notice of such decision shall be communicated to the employee within 30 days after such decision is made. Such decision shall include notification of the employee's right to reconsideration of the initial decision as provided in § 260.3. For purposes of this section, a timely request to amend an employee's record of service months and compensation maintained under the Railroad Retirement Act shall be filed within four years after the date on which the report of service months and compensation was required to be made to the Board by the employee's employer. See § 211.16 of this chapter.
[67 FR 77153, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 260.3
Request for reconsideration of initial decision.
(a)
Right to file request for reconsideration.
Every claimant shall have the right to file a request for reconsideration of an initial decision described in § 260.1(a) or in § 260.2.
Provided, however,
That:
(1) An individual under age 18 shall not have the right to reconsideration of a finding of incapacity to manage his or her annuity payments, but shall have the right to contest the finding that he or she is, in fact, under age 18;
(2) An individual who has been adjudged legally incompetent shall not have the right to reconsideration of a finding of incapacity to manage his or her annuity payments, but shall have the right to contest the fact of his or her having been adjudged legally incompetent; and
(3) An individual shall not have the right to reconsideration of a denial of his or her application to serve as representative payee on behalf of an annuitant. Such request for reconsideration shall be filed and disposed of in the manner prescribed in this section, except that a request for reconsideration of an initial erroneous payment decision under § 260.1(a)(7) shall be filed and disposed of in the manner prescribed in § 260.4.
(b)
Written request for reconsideration.
A written request for reconsideration may be filed with any office of the Board within 60 days from the date on which notice of the initial decision is mailed to the claimant. The claimant shall state the basis for the reconsideration request and provide any additional evidence which is available. No hearing will be provided.
(c)
Right to further review of initial decision.
The right to further review of an initial decision shall be forfeited unless a written request for reconsideration is filed within the time period prescribed in this section or good cause is shown by the claimant for failing to file a timely request for reconsideration.
(d)
Timely request for reconsideration.
In determining whether the claimant has good cause for failure to file a timely request for reconsideration the bureau director shall consider the circumstances which kept the claimant from filing the request on time and if any action by the Board misled the claimant. Examples of circumstances where good cause may exist include, but are not limited to:
(1) A serious illness which prevented the claimant from contacting the Board in person, in writing, or through a friend, relative or other person;
(2) A death or serious illness in the claimant's immediate family which prevented him or her from filing;
(3) The destruction of important and relevant records;
(4) A failure to be notified of a decision;
(5) An unusual or unavoidable circumstance existed which demonstrates that the claimant would not have known of the need to file timely or which prevented the claimant from filing in a timely manner; or
(6) The claimant thought that his or her representative had requested reconsideration.
(e)
Impartial review.
The reconsideration of the initial decision shall be conducted by a person who shall not have any interest in the parties or in the outcome of the proceedings, shall not have directly participated in the initial decision which has been requested to be reconsidered and shall not have any other interest in the matter which might prevent a fair and impartial decision.
(f)
Timely review.
The Board shall make every effort to issue a decision upon reconsideration and send a copy of the decision to the claimant within 60 days of the date that the decision for reconsideration is filed.
(g)
Right to appeal adverse decision.
If the reconsideration decision is adverse to the claimant, annuitant or payee, he or she shall be notifed of his or her right to appeal the decision to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals, as provided in § 260.5.
[47 FR 36809, Aug. 24, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 51448, Nov. 9, 1983; 55 FR 39146, Sept. 25, 1990; 67 FR 77153, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 260.4
Request for waiver of recovery of an overpayment and/or for reconsideration of an initial erroneous payment decision.
(a)
General.
A beneficiary who has been determined to have received an erroneous payment under § 260.1(a)(7) shall have the right, upon the filing of a timely request in accordance with the requirements of this section, to request waiver of recovery of the erroneous payment and/or reconsideration of the erroneous payment decision. The beneficiary shall have the right to an informal oral hearing on the issue of waiver of recovery and/or reconsideration of the erroneous payment decision, before an employee of the Board designated to conduct such a hearing, prior to commencement of recovery by suspension or reduction of a monthly benefit.
(b)
Request for waiver of recovery and/or reconsideration of an erroneous payment decision and for a personal conference.
A request for reconsideration of an erroneous payment decision must be filed in accordance with § 260.3(b) of this part. A request for waiver of recovery of an overpayment decision and for a personal conference under this section shall be in writing and addressed to the field office of the Board set forth in the initial decision letter or to the Debt Recovery Manager and shall be filed within 60 calendar days from the date on which notice of the overpayment decision was sent to the beneficiary. The beneficiary shall state in the request whether he or she elects to have a personal conference. If the beneficiary does not elect to have a personal conference with respect to his or her request for waiver of recovery or for reconsideration of the overpayment decision, he or she may, along with the request, submit any evidence and argument which he or she would like to present in support of his or her case.
(c)
Right to further review of an initial overpayment decision.
The right to further review of an initial overpayment decision shall be forfeited unless a written request for reconsideration is filed within the time period prescribed in § 260.3(b) of this part (60 days) or good cause, as defined in section 260.3(d) of this part, is shown by the beneficiary for failing to file a timely request for reconsideration. Nothing in this section shall be taken to mean that waiver of recovery will not be considered in these cases where the request for waiver is not filed within 60 days, but action to recover the erroneous payment will not be deferred if such a request is not filed within 60 days. Any amounts recovered prior to the date on which the request for waiver as permitted under the preceding sentence is filed shall not be waived under part 255 of this chapter.
(d)
Delay in commencement of recovery of erroneous payment.
Where a timely request for waiver or reconsideration is filed as provided in this section, the Board shall not commence recovery of the erroneous payment by suspension or reduction of a monthly benefit payable by the Board until a decision with respect to such request for waiver or reconsideration has been made and notice thereof mailed to the claimant.
(e)
Impartial review.
Upon receipt of a timely request for personal conference under this section, the Board shall promptly arrange for the selection of a Board employee to conduct a personal conference in the case. The employee designated to conduct the personal conference under this section shall not have had any prior involvement with the initial erroneous payment decision and shall conduct the personal conference in a fair and impartial manner. The employee designated to conduct the personal conference under this section shall promptly schedule a time and place for the personal conference and promptly notify the beneficiary of such. If the beneficiary agrees, the personal conference may be conducted by telephone.
(f)
Personal conference.
The beneficiary shall upon request have the opportunity to review, prior to the personal conference, his or her claim folder and all documents pertinent to the issues raised. A personal conference conducted under this section shall be informal. At the personal conference the beneficiary shall be afforded the following rights:
(1) To present his or her case orally and to submit evidence, whether through witnesses or documents;
(2) To cross-examine adverse witnesses who appear at the personal conference; and
(3) To be represented by counsel or other person.
(g)
Preparation of recommended decision.
Upon completion of the personal conference the employee who conducts the personal conference shall prepare a summary of the case including a statement of the facts, the employee's findings of fact and law, and a recommended decision.
(h)
Timely review.
The Board shall make every effort to render a decision with respect to the beneficiary's request for reconsideration of the initial erroneous payment determination and/or waiver of recovery and notify the beneficiary of that decision within 60 days of the date that the request for reconsideration and/or waiver is filed or the date that the summary of the case is received from the employee who conducts the personal conference, whichever is later.
(i)
Right to appeal adverse decision.
If the Board renders a decision adverse to the beneficiary, he or she may appeal the decision to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals, as provided in § 260.5 of this part.
(j)
Repayment is not a bar to requesting waiver and/or reconsideration.
The fact that a beneficiary may have notified the Board with respect to the method by which he or she could choose to have the recovery made, or the fact that such beneficiary may have actually tendered to the Board a portion or all of the amount of the erroneous payment, shall in no way operate to prejudice his or her right to request reconsideration of the initial erroneous payment determination or to request waiver of recovery.
[47 FR 36809, Aug. 24, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 39146, Sept. 25, 1990; 67 FR 77153, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 260.5
Appeal from a reconsideration decision.
(a)
General.
Every claimant shall have a right to appeal to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals from any reconsideration decision with which he or she disagrees.
(b)
Appeal from a reconsideration decision.
Appeal from a reconsideration decision shall be made by filing the form prescribed by the Board for such purpose. Such appeal must be filed with the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals within 60 days from the date upon which notice of the reconsideration decision is mailed to the claimant. Any written request stating an intent to appeal which is received within the 60-day period will protect the claimant's right to appeal, provided that the claimant files the appeal form within the later of the 60-day period following the date of the reconsideration decision, or the 30-day period following the date of the letter sending the form to the claimant.
(c)
Right to review of a reconsideration decision.
The right to review of a reconsideration decision shall be forfeited unless an appeal is filed in the manner and within the time prescribed in this section. However, when a claimant fails to file an appeal with the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals within the time prescribed in this section, the hearings officer may waive this requirement of timeliness. Such waiver shall only occur in cases where the claimant has made a showing of good cause for failure to file a timely appeal. Good cause for failure to file a timely appeal will be determined by a hearings officer in the manner prescribed in § 260.3(d) of this part.
(d)
Delay in the commencement of recovery of erroneous payment.
Where a timely appeal seeking waiver of recovery of an erroneous payment has been filed with the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals, the Board shall not commence recovery of the erroneous payment by suspension or reduction of a monthly benefit payable by the Board until a
decision with respect to such appeal seeking waiver has been made and notice thereof has been mailed to the claimant.
(e)
Impartial review.
Within 30 days after the claimant has filed a proper appeal, the Director of Hearings and Appeals shall appoint a hearings officer to act on the appeal. The Director of Hearings and Appeals may, if the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals' caseload dictates, appoint a qualified Board employee, other than a hearings officer assigned to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals, to act as a hearings officer with respect to a case. Such hearings officer shall not have any interest in the parties or in the outcome of the proceedings, shall not have directly participated in the initial decision or the reconsideration decision from which the appeal is made, and shall not have any other interest in the matter which might prevent a fair and impartial decision.
(f)
Power of hearings officer to conduct hearings.
In the development of appeals, the hearings officer shall have the power to hold hearings, require and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena or otherwise in accordance with the procedures set forth in part 258 of this chapter, administer oaths, rule on motions, take testimony, and make all necessary investigations.
(g)
Evidence presented in support of appeal.
(1) The appellant, or his or her representative, shall be afforded full opportunity to present testimony, or written evidence or exhibits upon any controversial question of fact; to examine and cross-examine witnesses; and to present argument in support of the appeal.
(2) The formal rules of evidence shall not apply; however, the hearings officer may exclude evidence which he or she finds is irrelevant or repetitious. Any evidence excluded by the hearings officer shall be described and that description made part of the record.
(3) If, in the judgment of the hearings officer, evidence not offered by the appellant is available and is relevant and material to the merits of the claim, the hearings officer may obtain such evidence upon his or her own initiative. If new evidence is obtained after an oral hearing, other than evidence submitted by the appellant or his or her representative, the hearings officer shall provide the appellant or his or her representative with a copy of such evidence. In such event, the appellant shall have 30 days to submit rebuttal evidence or argument or to request a supplemental hearing to confront and challenge such new evidence. The appellant may move for an extension of time to submit rebuttal evidence or argument and the hearings officer may grant the motion upon a showing of good cause.
(h)
Submission of written argument in lieu of oral hearings.
Where the hearings officer finds that no factual issues are presented by an appeal, and the only issues raised by the appellant are issues concerning the application or interpretation of law, the appellant or his or her representative shall be afforded full opportunity to submit written argument in support of the claim but no oral hearing shall be held.
(i)
Conduct of an oral hearing.
(1) In any case in which an oral hearing is to be held, the hearings officer shall schedule a time and place for the conduct of the hearing. At the discretion of the hearings officer, any hearing required under this part may be held in person, by telephone conference call, or by video teleconferencing as described in § 260.5(1). The hearing shall not be open to the public. The hearings officer shall promptly notify by mail the party or parties to the proceeding as to the time and place for the hearing. The notice shall include a statement of the specific issues involved in the case. The hearings officer shall make every effort to hold the hearing within 150 days after the date the appeal is filed.
(2) If the appellant objects to the time or place of the hearing, he or she must notify the hearings officer no later than 5 calendar days before the time set for the hearing. The appellant must state the reason for his or her objection. If at all possible, the request should be in writing. The hearings officer will change the time or place of the hearing if he or she finds there is good cause to do so.
(3) The hearings officer shall rule on any objection timely filed by a party under paragraph (i) of this section and
shall notify the party of his or her ruling thereon. The hearings officer may for good cause shown, or upon his or her own motion, reschedule the time and/or place of the hearing. If an individual objects to having a hearing by video teleconferencing, the hearings officer will find the individual's wish not to appear by video teleconferencing to be a good reason for changing the time or place of the scheduled hearing and will reschedule the hearing for a time or place where either a telephone conference call or an in person hearing will be held. The hearings officer may also limit or expand the issues to be resolved at the hearing.
(4) If neither a party nor his or her representative appears at the time and place scheduled for the hearing, that party shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to an oral hearing unless said party either filed with the hearings officer a notice of objection showing good cause why the hearing should have been rescheduled, which notice was timely filed but not ruled upon, or, within 10 days following the date on which the hearing was scheduled, said party files with the hearings officer a motion to reschedule the hearing showing good cause why neither the party nor his or her representative appeared at the hearing and further showing good cause as to why said party failed to file at the prescribed time any notice of objection to the time and place of the hearing.
(5) If the hearings officer finds either that a notice of objection was timely filed showing good cause to reschedule the hearing, or that the party has within 10 days following the date of the hearing filed a motion showing good cause for failure to appear and to file a notice of objection, the hearings officer shall reschedule the hearing. If the hearings officer finds that the hearing shall not be rescheduled, he or she shall so notify the party in writing.
(j)
Record of evidence considered.
The hearings officer will make a record of the material evidence. The record will include the applications, written statements, reports, and other documents that were used in making the determination under review and any other additional evidence the appellant or any other party to the hearing presents in writing. If a hearing was held in the appeal, the tape recording of the hearing will be part of the record while the appeal is pending. The hearings officer's decision will be based on the record. The entire record at any time during the pendency of the appeal shall be available for examination by the appellant or by his or her duly authorized representative.
(k)
Extension of time to submit evidence.
Except where the hearings officer has determined that additional evidence not offered by the appellant at or prior to the hearing is available, the record shall be closed as of the conclusion of the hearing. The appellant may request an extension of time to submit evidence and the hearings officer will grant the request upon a showing of good cause for failure to have submitted the evidence earlier. The extension shall be for a period not exceeding 30 days.
(l)
Hearing by telephone or video teleconferencing.
As stated in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, at the discretion of the hearings officer, any hearing required under this part may be conducted in person, by telephone conference call, or by video teleconferencing. The hearings officer may determine the hearing should be conducted by telephone conference call or video teleconferencing if use of these methods would be more efficient than conducting an in person hearing and the hearings officer does not determine that there is a circumstance in the particular case preventing the use of these methodologies to conduct the hearing.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (b) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0007)
[67 FR 77154, Dec. 17, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 55283, Sept. 22, 2006]
§ 260.6
Time limits for issuing a hearing decision.
(a)
General.
The hearings officer shall make every effort to issue a decision within 45 days after the hearing is held.
(b)
Submission of additional evidence.
If the hearings officer requests additional evidence, he or she shall do so within 30 days after the hearing is held and he or she shall make every effort to issue the hearing decision within 45 days after
the additional evidence is received and the period for comment has ended. If the claimant wishes to submit additional evidence or written statements of fact or law, the hearings officer shall make every effort to issue the hearing decision within 45 days after the written statements are received or the additional evidence is received and the period for comment has ended.
(c)
Supplemental hearing.
If on the basis of additional evidence the hearings officer decides a supplemental hearing is necessary, the supplemental hearing will be held within 30 days after the receipt of the additional evidence and the hearings officer shall make every effort to issue a decision within 30 days after the supplemental hearing is held.
(d)
Reassignment of case to another hearings officer.
If, after a hearing has been held, it is necessary to reassign a case to another hearings officer due to the unavailability of the original hearings officer (e.g., resignation, retirement, illness), the case will be promptly reassigned. The new hearings officer shall make every effort to issue a hearing decision within 30 days after the reassignment.
§ 260.7
Time limits for issuing a decision when a hearing is not held.
If a claimant waives his or her right to appear at a hearing and the hearings officer does not schedule the case for hearing, or the evidence in the record supports a favorable decision without a hearing, or a hearing is not required pursuant to § 260.5(g), the hearings officer shall make every effort to issue a decision within 90 days from the date the appeal is filed:
Provided, however,
that if the hearings officer requests additional evidence it shall be requested within 45 days of the filing of the appeal and the hearings officer shall make every effort to issue a decision within 30 days after the additional evidence is received and the appellant comments on the evidence, or if no comment is received after the close of the comment period.
§ 260.8
Pre-hearing case review.
(a)
General.
The hearings officer assigned to a case may, prior to an oral hearing, upon his or her own motion, refer the case back to the office of the Board which issued the initial decision for the purpose of reconsideration of that decision, where the hearings officer finds that:
(1) Additional evidence pertinent to the resolution of the issues on appeal was submitted by the appellant at the time the appeal was filed, or subsequent thereto; or
(2) Additional evidence pertinent to the resolution of the issues on appeal is available and should be procured; or
(3) There is some other indication in the record that the initial decision may be revised in a manner favorable to the appellant.
(b)
Referral of case for further review by initial adjudicating unit.
Where the hearings officer finds that referral of a case back to the office which issued the initial decision for the purpose of reconsideration of that decision would be warranted, the hearings officer shall give that office the reason for such referral, together with specific directions as to the handling of the case on reconsideration.
(c)
Reconsideration of case by initial adjudicating unit.
The office to which a case is referred shall promptly undertake any additional development required, and shall make a determination as to whether the initial determination may be revised in whole or in part in a manner favorable to the appellant. Upon issuance of its determination, the office in question shall return the case along with a copy of its decision to the hearings officer.
(d)
Revision of initial decision in whole or in part.
Where the office to which a case is referred determines to revise its initial decision in whole or in part, that office shall notify the appellant of such determination. If the revised determination is wholly favorable to the appellant, he or she shall be notified that the appeal to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals will be dismissed by the hearings officer assigned to the case. If the revised decision is partially favorable to the appellant, the notice shall inform the appellant that the hearings officer will proceed with the portion of the appellant's case not revised in his or her favor, unless the appellant should request dismissal of the appeal.
(e)
Timely conduct of oral hearing.
The fact that a case on appeal has been referred back to the office which issued the initial decision in the case shall not delay the conduct of a hearing scheduled with respect to the appeal, unless the appellant agrees to a delay. If it appears that the office to which a case has been referred will not have completed its reconsideration of the case prior to the date of a scheduled hearing on an appeal and the appellant has not agreed to a delay in the conduct of the hearing, the hearings officer shall proceed with the hearing and the handling of the case as though the case had not been referred back to the office.
[47 FR 36809, Aug. 24, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 77155, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 260.9
Final appeal from a decision of the hearings officer.
(a)
General.
Every appellant shall have a right to a final appeal to the Railroad Retirement Board from any decision of a hearings officer by which he or she claims to be aggrieved.
(b)
Appeal from decision of hearings officer.
Final appeal from a decision of a hearings officer shall be made by the execution and filing of the final appeal form prescribed by the Board. Such appeal must be filed with the Board within 60 days from the date upon which notice of the decision of the hearings officer is mailed to the appellant at the last address furnished by him or her. Any written request stating an intent to appeal which is received within the 60-day period will protect the claimant's right to appeal,
Provided that
the claimant files the appeal form within the later of the 60-day period following the date of the hearing officer's decision, or the 30-day period following the date of the letter sending the form to the claimant.
(c)
Timely filing.
The right to further review of a decision of a hearings officer shall be forfeited unless formal final appeal is filed in the manner and within the time prescribed in § 260.9(b). However, when a claimant fails to file an appeal before the Board within the time prescribed in this section, the Board may waive this requirement if, along with the final appeal form, the appellant in writing requests an extension of time. The request for an extension of time must give the reasons why the final appeal form was not filed within the time limit prescribed in this section. If in the judgment of the Board the reasons given establish that the appellant had good cause for not filing the final appeal form within the time prescribed, the Board will consider the appeal to have been filed in a timely manner. The Board will use the standards found in § 260.3(d) of this chapter in determining if good cause exists.
(d)
Delay in the commencement of recovery of erroneous payment.
Where a timely appeal seeking waiver of recovery of an erroneous payment has been filed with the three-member Board, the Board shall not commence recovery of the erroneous payment by suspension or reduction of a monthly benefit payable by the Board until a decision with respect to such appeal seeking waiver has been made and notice thereof has been mailed to the claimant.
(e)
Submission of additional evidence.
Upon final appeal to the Board, the appellant shall not have the right to submit additional evidence. However, the Board may grant a request to submit new evidence where new and material evidence is available that, despite due diligence, was not available before the decision of the hearings officer was issued. The Board may also obtain new evidence on its own motion. Upon admission of new evidence, the Board, at its discretion, may:
(1) Vacate the decision of the hearings officer and remand the case to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals for issuance of a new decision. The decision of the hearings officer on remand may be appealed to the Board in the manner described in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) Return the case to the hearings officer for further consideration with direction to submit a recommended decision to the Board.
(f)
Decision of the Board.
The decision of the Board shall be made upon the record of evidence developed by the hearings officer and any additional evidence admitted pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section. The appellant may submit additional argument in writing with the appeal to the Board. The appellant shall have no right to an oral
presentation before the Board except where the Board so permits. Such presentation shall be limited in form, subject matter, length, and time as the Board may indicate to the appellant.
(g)
Issuance of decision.
The Board shall make every effort to issue a decision within 90 days after the later of:
(1) The date the final appeal is filed;
(2) The date new or better evidence is obtained in accordance with § 260.9(d) and the appellant has commented on it;
(3) The date new or better evidence is obtained in accordance with § 260.9(d) and after the close of the comment period;
(4) The date further argument submitted in accordance with § 260.9(e) is received; or
(5) The date the record is returned to the Board following referral back to the hearings officer.
(h)
Review of decisions rendered prior to appeal to Board.
The Board may, on its own motion, review or cause to be reviewed any decision issued by a subordinate official or employee under this part.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (b) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0007)
[47 FR 36809, Aug. 24, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 19523, May 9, 1985; 52 FR 11017, Apr. 6, 1987; 67 FR 77155, Dec. 17, 2002; 68 FR 6820, Feb. 11, 2003]
§ 260.10
Determination of date of filing.
(a)
General rule.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this part, a document or form is filed on the day it is received by an office of the Board or by an employee of the Board who is authorized to receive it at a place other than one of the Board's offices.
(b)
Other dates of filing.
The Board will also accept as the date of filing the date a document or form is mailed to the Board by the United States mail, if using the date the Board receives it would result in the loss or lessening of rights. The date shown by a U.S. postmark will be used as the date of mailing. If the postmark is unreadable, or there is no postmark, the Board will consider other evidence of when the document or form was mailed to the Board.
[67 FR 77156, Dec. 17, 2002]
Pt. 261

# PART 261—ADMINISTRATIVE FINALITY
Sec.
261.1
Reopening and revising decisions.
261.2
Conditions for reopening.
261.3
Change of legal interpretation or administrative ruling.
261.4
Decisions which shall not be reopened.
261.5
Late completion of timely investigation.
261.6
Notice of revised decision.
261.7
Effect of revised decision.
261.8
Time and place to request review of a revised decision.
261.9
Finality of findings when later claim is filed on same earnings record.
261.10
Increase in future benefits where time period for reopening has expired.
261.11
Discretion of the three-member Board to reopen or not to reopen a final decision.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f.

# Source:
62 FR 45713, Aug. 29, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 261.1
Reopening and revising decisions.
(a) This part sets forth the Board's rules governing finality of decisions. After the expiration of the time limits for review as set forth in part 260 of this chapter, decisions of the agency may be reopened and revised under the conditions described in this part, by the bureau, office, or entity that made the earlier decision or by a bureau, office, or other entity at a higher level, which has the claim properly before it.
(b) A
final decision
as that term is used in this part means any decision of the type listed in § 260.1 of this chapter where the time limits for review as set forth in part 260 of this chapter or in the Railroad Retirement Act have expired.
(c)
Reopening
a final decision under this part means a conscious determination on the part of the agency to reconsider an otherwise final decision for purposes of revising that decision.
(d)
New and material evidence
as that phrase is used in this part means evidence that may reasonably be expected to affect a final decision, which was unavailable to the agency at the time the
decision was made, and which the claimant could not reasonably have been expected to have submitted at that time.
§ 261.2
Conditions for reopening.
A final decision may be reopened:
(a) Within 12 months of the date of the notice of such decision, for any reason;
(b) Within four years of the date of the notice of such decision, if there is new and material evidence or there was adjudicative error not consistent with the evidence of record at the time of adjudication; or
(c) At any time if:
(1) The decision was obtained by fraud or similar fault;
(2) Another person files a claim on the same record of compensation and allowance of the claim adversely affects the first claim;
(3) A person previously determined to be dead on whose earnings record a survivor annuity is based is found to be alive;
(4) A claim was denied because of the absence of proof of death of the employee, and the death is later established:
(i) By reason of an unexplained absence from his or her residence for a period of 7 years; or
(ii) By location or identification of his or her body;
(5) The Social Security Administration has awarded duplicate benefits on the same record of compensation;
(6) The decision was that the claimant did not have an insured status, and compensation has been credited to the employee's record of compensation in accordance with part 211 of this chapter:
(i) To enter items transferred by the Social Security Administration which were credited under the Social Security Act when they should have been credited to the employee's railroad retirement compensation record; or
(ii) To correct an error made in the allocation of earnings to an individual which, if properly allocated, would have given him or her an insured status at the time of the decision and the evidence of these earnings was in the possession of the Railroad Retirement Board or the Social Security Administration at the time of the decision;
(7) The decision is wholly or partially unfavorable to a party, but only to correct clerical error or an error that appears on the face of the evidence that was considered when the determination or decision was made;
(8) The decision found the claimant entitled to an annuity or to a lump sum payment based on the earnings record of a deceased person, and it is later established that:
(i) The claimant was convicted of a felony or an act in the nature of a felony for intentionally causing that person's death; or
(ii) If the claimant was subject to the juvenile justice system, he or she was found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have intentionally caused that person's death by committing an act which, if committed by an adult, would have been considered a felony or an act in the nature of a felony;
(9) The claimant shows that it is to his or her advantage to select a later annuity beginning date and refunds, by cash payment or setoff, past payments applying to the period prior to the later beginning date, subject, however, to the provisions of subpart D of part 217 and § 218.9 of this chapter;
(10) The decision is incorrect because of a failure to apply a reduction, or the proper reduction, to the tier I component of an annuity, but the Board shall apply the reduction only for the months following the month the Board first takes corrective action.
(d) Revision of the amount or payment of a separation allowance lump sum amount pursuant to section 6(e) of the Railroad Retirement Act is limited to 60 days from the date of notification of the award of the separation allowance lump sum payment.
§ 261.3
Change of legal interpretation or administrative ruling.
A change of legal interpretation or administrative ruling upon which a decision is based does not render a decision erroneous and does not provide a basis for reopening.
§ 261.4
Decisions which shall not be reopened.
The following decisions shall not be reopened:
(a) An award of an annuity beginning date to an applicant later found to have been in compensated service to an employer under part 202 of this chapter on that annuity beginning date and who is found not to be at fault in causing the erroneous award; provided, however, that this exception shall not operate to permit payment of benefits for any month in which the claimant is found to be engaged in compensated service.
(b) An award of an annuity based on a subsequently discovered erroneous crediting of months of service and compensation to a claimant where:
(1) The loss of such months of service and compensation will cause the applicant to lose his or her eligibility for an annuity previously awarded;
(2) The erroneously credited months of service do not exceed six months; and
(3) The annuitant is found not to be at fault in causing the erroneous crediting.
(c) An erroneous award of an annuity where the error is no greater than one dollar per month per annuity affected.
(d) An erroneous award of a lump sum or accrued annuity payment where the error is no greater than $25.00.
§ 261.5
Late completion of timely investigation.
(a) A decision may be revised after the applicable time period in § 261.2(a) or § 261.2(b) of this part expires if the Railroad Retirement Board begins an investigation into whether to revise the decision before the applicable time period expires and the agency diligently pursues the investigation to the conclusion. The investigation may be based on a request by a claimant or on action by the Railroad Retirement Board.
(b)
Diligently pursued
for purposes of this section means that in view of the facts and circumstances of a particular case, the necessary action was undertaken and carried out as promptly as the circumstances permitted. Diligent pursuit will be presumed to have been met if the investigation is concluded and, if necessary, the decision is revised within 6 months from the date the investigation began.
(c) If the investigation is not diligently pursued to its conclusion, the decision will be revised if a revision is applicable and if it is favorable to the claimant. It will not be revised if it would be unfavorable to the claimant.
§ 261.6
Notice of revised decision.
(a) When a decision is revised, notice of the revision will be mailed to the parties to the decision at their last known address. The notice will state the basis for the revised decision and the effect of the revision. The notice will also inform the parties of the right to further review.
(b) If a hearings officer or the three-member Board proposes to revise a decision, and the revision would be based only on evidence included in the record on which the prior decision was based, all parties will be notified in writing of the proposed action. If a revised decision is issued by a hearings officer, any party may request that it be reviewed by the three-member Board, or the three-member Board may review the decision on its own initiative.
§ 261.7
Effect of revised decision.
A revised decision is binding unless:
(a) The revised decision is reconsidered or appealed in accord with part 260 of this chapter;
(b) The three-member Board reviews the revised decision; or
(c) The revised decision is further revised consistent with this part.
§ 261.8
Time and place to request review of a revised decision.
A party to a revised decision may request, as appropriate, further review of the decision in accordance with the rules set forth in part 260 of this chapter.
§ 261.9
Finality of findings when later claim is filed on same earnings record.
If two claims for benefits are filed on the same record of compensation, findings of fact made in a decision in the first claim may be revised in determining or deciding the second claim, even though the time limit for revising
the findings made in the first claim has passed. However, a finding in connection with a claim that a person was fully or currently insured at the time of filing an application, at the time of death, or any other pertinent time, may be revised only under the conditions stated in § 261.2 of this part.
§ 261.10
Increase in future benefits where time period for reopening has expired.
If, after the time period for reopening under § 261.2(b) of this part has expired, new evidence is furnished showing a different date of birth or new evidence is furnished which would cause a correction in a record of compensation as provided for in part 211 of this chapter and, as a result of the new evidence, increased benefits would be payable, the Board will pay increased benefits, but only for the months following the month the new evidence is received.
§ 261.11
Discretion of the three-member Board to reopen or not to reopen a final decision.
In any case in which the three-member Board may deem proper, the Board may direct that any decision, which is otherwise subject to reopening under this part, shall not be reopened or direct that any decision, which is otherwise not subject to reopening under this part, shall be reopened.
PART 262 [RESERVED]
Pt. 266

# PART 266—REPRESENTATIVE PAYMENT
Sec.
266.1
Introduction.
266.2
Recognition by the Board of a person to act in behalf of another.
266.3
Information considered in determining whether to make representative payments.
266.4
Information considered in selecting a representative payee.
266.5
Order of preference in selecting a representative payee.
266.6
Information to be submitted by a representative payee applicant; face-to-face interview.
266.7
Accountability of a representative payee.
266.8
Advance notice of the determination to make representative payment.
266.9
Responsibilities of a representative payee.
266.10
Use of benefit payments.
266.11
Conservation and investment of benefit payments.
266.12
Effect of matters or actions submitted or taken by legal guardian, etc.
266.13
When a new representative payee will be selected.
266.14
When representative payment will be stopped.
266.15
Transfer of accumulated benefit payments.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231k and 231f.

# Source:
59 FR 3992, Jan. 28, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 266.1
Introduction.
(a)
Explanation of representative payment.
This part explains the principles and procedures that the Board follows in determining whether to make representative payment and in selecting a representative payee. It also explains the responsibilities that a representative payee has concerning the use of the funds which he or she receives on behalf of an annuitant. A representative payee may be either a person or an organization selected by the Board to receive benefits on behalf of an annuitant. A representative payee will be selected if the Board believes that the interest of an annuitant will be served by representative payment rather than direct payment of benefits. Generally, the Board will appoint a representative payee if it determines that the annuitant is not able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments in his or her interest.
(b)
Statutory authority.
Section 12 of the Railroad Retirement Act provides that every annuitant and claimant shall be conclusively presumed to have been competent until the date on which the Board receives a notice in writing that a legal guardian or other person legally vested with the care of the person or estate of an incompetent or a minor has been appointed: Provided, however, That despite receiving such notice, the Board may, if it finds the interests of such annuitant or claimant to be served thereby, recognize actions by, conduct transactions with, and make payments to such annuitant or claimant.
(c)
Policy used to determine whether to make representative payment.
(1) In accordance with section 12 of the Railroad Retirement Act, the Board's policy is that every annuitant has the right to manage his or her own benefits. However, some annuitants due to mental or physical condition or due to their youth may be unable to do so. If the Board determines that the interests of an annuitant would be better served if benefit payments were certified to another person as representative payee, the Board will appoint a representative payee in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part. The Board may appoint a representative payee even if the annuitant is a legally competent individual. If the annuitant is a legally incompetent individual, the Board may appoint the legal guardian or some other person as a representative payee.
(2) If payment is being made directly to an annuitant and a question arises concerning his or her ability to manage or direct the management of benefit payments, the Board may, if the annuitant is 18 years old or older and has not been adjudged legally incompetent, continue to pay the annuitant until the Board makes a determination about his or her ability to manage or direct the management of benefit payments and the selection of a representative payee.
§ 266.2
Recognition by the Board of a person to act in behalf of another.
(a) Regardless of the receipt of written notice of the appointment of a guardian or other person legally vested with the care of the person or estate of an incompetent or a minor who is receiving or claiming benefits or to whom any right or privilege is extended under the law, the Board may, in its discretion, validly recognize actions by and conduct transactions with others acting on behalf of the individual found by the Board to be a minor or to be unable to manage his or her affairs, if the Board finds such actions or transactions to be in the best interest of such individual.
(b) In the absence of a written notice of the appointment of a guardian or other person legally vested with the care of the person or estate of an incompetent or minor, the Board shall, except where special circumstances appear, recognize a person to act on behalf of an individual under the following circumstances:
(1) When the individual has been adjudged mentally incompetent by a court having jurisdiction to do so;
(2) When the individual has been committed to a mental institution by a court having jurisdiction to do so;
(3) When the individual is an inmate of a mental institution;
(4) When the individual is less than 16 years of age; or
(5) When the individual is between 16 and 18 years of age and is in the care of another person and does not have the capacity to act on his or her own behalf.
§ 266.3
Information considered in determining whether to make representative payments.
In determining whether to make representative payment, the Board may consider the following information:
(a)
Evidence of legal guardianship.
Evidence of the appointment of a legal guardian or other person legally vested with the care of the person or estate of an incompetent or a minor shall be a certified copy of the court's determination.
(b)
Medical evidence.
The Board may use medical evidence, when such is available, to help determine whether an annuitant is capable of managing or directing the management of benefit payments. For example, a statement by a physician or other medical professional based upon his or her recent examination of the annuitant and his or her knowledge of the annuitant's present condition will be used in the Board's determination, if it includes information concerning the nature of the annuitant's illness, the annuitant's chances for recovery and the opinion of the physician or other medical professional as to whether the annuitant is able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments.
(c)
Other evidence.
The Board may also consider statements of relatives, friends, and other people in a position to know and observe the annuitant, which contain information helpful to
the Board in deciding whether the annuitant is able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments.
§ 266.4
Information considered in selecting a representative payee.
In selecting a representative payee, the Board tries to select the person, agency, organization or institution that will best serve the interest of the annuitant. In making this selection, the Board may consider such factors as the following:
(a) The relationship of the person to the annuitant, including the type of relationship,
e.g.,
family or legal guardianship; degree of relationship, if the person is a family member; and the length of association, if a non-family member;
(b) The amount of interest that the person shows in the annuitant, including the contributions the person makes to the welfare of the annuitant and the contacts and frequency of such contacts with the annuitant;
(c) Any legal authority the person, agency, organization or institution has to act on behalf of the annuitant;
(d) Whether the potential payee has custody of the annuitant;
(e) Whether the potential payee is in a position to know of and look after the needs of the annuitant;
(f) Verification of the social security account number, name, address, telephone number, place of employment, and main source of income if applicable, accepted as part of any person's application for designation as a representative payee, unless such person's identification has already been established to the satisfaction of the Board;
(g) Whether an applicant for designation as a representative payee has ever been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor under the statutes administered by the Board or the Social Security Act, or convicted of a felony under any other Federal or State law; and
(h) Whether the services of such person as representative payee have previously been terminated, suspended, or declined by the Board or the Social Security Administration for:
(1) Misuse of the benefits of the annuitant for whom they were intended;
(2) Failure to comply with any provision of or regulation under the Railroad Retirement Act or the Social Security Act; or
(3) Failure to meet the requirements of this part.
(i) Whether the potential payee is a creditor of the annuitant. A creditor who provides goods and services to the annuitant ordinarily may not serve as a representative payee unless such appointment poses no substantial conflict of interest and unless the creditor is:
(1) A relative who resides with the annuitant;
(2) A legal guardian or legal representative of the annuitant; or
(3) A licensed or certified care facility (or owner, administrator or employee thereof) where there annuitant resides.
§ 266.5
Order of preference in selecting a representative payee.
As a guide in selecting a representative payee, categories of preferred payees have been established. These preferences are flexible. The primary concern of the Board is to select the payee who will best serve the annuitant's interest. The preferences are:
(a) For annuitants 18 years old or older, the preference is:
(1) A legal guardian, spouse, or other relative who has custody of the annuitant or who demonstrates strong concern for the personal welfare of the annuitant;
(2) A friend who has custody of the annuitant or demonstrates strong concern for the personal welfare of the annuitant;
(3) A public or nonprofit agency or institution having custody of the annuitant;
(4) A private institution operated for profit and licensed under State law, which has custody of the annuitant; and
(5) Persons other than those listed above who are qualified to carry out the responsibilities of a representative payee and who are able and willing to serve as a payee for an annuitant;
e.g.,
members of community groups or organizations who volunteer to serve as representative payee for an annuitant.
(b) For annuitants under age 18, the preference is:
(1) A natural or adoptive parent who has custody of the annuitant, or a legal guardian;
(2) A natural or adoptive parent who does not have custody of the annuitant, but is contributing toward the annuitant's support and is demonstrating strong concern for the annuitant's well-being;
(3) A relative or stepparent who has custody of the annuitant;
(4) A natural or adoptive parent who does not have custody of the annuitant and is not contributing toward his or her support but is demonstrating strong concern for the annuitant's well-being;
(5) A relative who does not have custody of the annuitant but is contributing toward the annuitant's support and is demonstrating concern for the annuitant's well-being;
(6) A relative or close friend who does not have custody of the annuitant but is demonstrating concern for the annuitant's well-being; and
(7) An authorized social agency or custodial institution.
§ 266.6
Information to be submitted by a representative payee-applicant; face-to-face interview.
Before the Board selects a representative payee, the Board may request the payee-applicant to provide information concerning the factors listed in § 266.4 of this part. An employee of the Board may also conduct a face-to-face interview with the payee-applicant.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0052)
§ 266.7
Accountability of a representative payee.
(a) A representative payee is accountable for the use of benefits. The Board will require periodic written reports from representative payees. The Board may also, at the Board's option, verify how a representative payee used benefit payments. A representative payee must keep records of what was done with all benefit payments in order to make accounting reports. The Board may ask the following questions:
(1) The amount of benefit payments on hand at the beginning of the accounting period;
(2) How the benefit payments were used;
(3) How much of the benefit payments were saved and how the savings were invested;
(4) Where the annuitant lived during the accounting period;
(5) The amount of the annuitant's income from other sources during the accounting period. The Board may ask for information about other funds to enable the Board to evaluate the use of benefit payments; and
(6) Whether the representative payee has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor offense under the statutes administered by the Board or by the Social Security Administration within the past 15 years or whether any such charges are pending.
(b) An individual to whom payments are certified as representative payee on behalf of an annuitant shall submit a written report in such form and at such times as the Board may require, accounting for the payments certified to him or her on behalf of the annuitant. If, however, such payee is a court-appointed fiduciary and, as such, is required to make an annual accounting to the court, a true copy of each such account filed with the court may be submitted in lieu of the accounting form prescribed by the Board. If any representative payee fails to submit the required accounting within a reasonable period of time after it is requested, no further payments shall be made to him or her on behalf of the annuitant unless for good cause shown, the default of the representative payee is excused by the Board, and the required accounting is thereafter submitted.
(c) At any time after the Board has selected a representative payee, the Board may ask such payee to submit information showing a continuing relationship to the annuitant and a continuing responsibility for the care of the annuitant. If the representative payee does not give the Board the requested information within a reasonable period of time, the Board may stop paying such payee unless the Board determines that the payee had a good reason for not complying with the Board's request, and the Board receives the information requested.
(d) Where, pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the Board suspends payments, such suspension shall not exceed a period of 30 days; thereafter, the payments will be made to the annuitant except where the annuitant is an unemancipated minor under age 18 or where in the Board's judgment the interests of the annuitant would not be served by releasing payment to the annuitant.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3220-0052 and 3220-0151)
§ 266.8
Advance notice of the determination to make representative payment.
(a) As a general rule, whenever the Board intends to make representative payment and to name a representative payee, the Board will notify the annuitant or, in the case of an unemancipated minor under age 18, or an individual who is legally incompetent, the individual acting on his or her behalf of the Board's proposed actions. Such notice will tell the person that the Board plans to name a representative payee and who that payee will be. The notice will also ask the person to contact the Board within 15 days of the date of the notice if he or she objects to either proposed action. If he or she objects to either proposed action, the objecting party may—
(1) Review the evidence upon which the proposed actions will be based; and
(2) Submit any additional evidence regarding the proposed actions.
(b) If the objecting party objects to the proposed actions, the Board will review its proposed determinations and consider any additional information provided. The Board will then issue a decision on whether to appoint a representative payee and who that payee will be. If the objecting party is dissatisfied with either determination, he or she may request a reconsideration under part 260 of this chapter.
(c) If the objecting party does not file a timely objection to the proposed actions, the Board will issue a decision on whether to appoint a representative payee and who that payee will be. If the objecting party is dissatisfied with either determination, he or she may request a reconsideration under part 260 of this chapter.
(d) A request for reconsideration or an appeal from a determination under this section under part 260 of this chapter shall not prevent the Board from making payments to a representative payee during the pendency of such reconsideration or appeal.
(e) The Board's failure or refusal to select an individual as representative payee or the Board's termination of representative payee status with respect to an individual is not subject to a request for reconsideration or an appeal under part 260 of this chapter by such individual.
§ 266.9
Responsibilities of a representative payee.
(a) A representative payee shall, subject to review by the Board and to such requirements as it may from time-to-time prescribe, apply the payments made to him or her on behalf of the annuitant only for the use and benefit of such annuitant, and in a manner and for purposes which are in the annuitant's best interests.
(b) A representative payee shall notify the Board of any event that will affect the amount of benefits the annuitant receives or the right of the annuitant to receive benefits.
(c) A representative payee shall notify the Board of any change in his or her circumstances that would affect performance of the payee responsibilities.
§ 266.10
Use of benefit payments.
(a)
Current maintenance.
Payments made to an individual as representative payee on behalf of an annuitant shall be considered as having been applied for the use and benefit of the annuitant when they are used for the annuitant's current maintenance. Current maintenance includes costs incurred in obtaining food, shelter, clothing, medical care, and personal comfort items.

# Example:
An aged annuitant is entitled to a monthly railroad retirement benefit of $800. His son, who is his representative payee, disburses his benefits in the following manner:
Rent and utilities
$500
Medical
50
Food
80
Clothing(coat)
90
Savings
60
Miscellaneous
20
The above expenditures would represent proper disbursements on behalf of the annuitant.
(b)
Institutional care.
If an annuitant is receiving care in a Federal, state, or private institution because of mental or physical incapacity, current maintenance includes the customary charges made by the institution in providing care and maintenance, as well as expenditures for those items which will aid in the annuitant's recovery or release from the institution or expenses for personal needs which will improve the annuitant's conditions while in the institution.
(c)
Support of legal dependents.
If the current maintenance needs of the annuitant are met, the representative payee may use part of the payments for the support of the annuitant's legally dependent spouse, child, and/or parent.
(d)
Claims of creditors.
Where a debt arose prior to the first month for which benefits are certified to a representative payee, the representative payee may satisfy such debt out of present benefit payments only if the current and reasonably foreseeable needs of the annuitant are met.

# Example:
A retroactive railroad retirement annuity check in the amount of $2,100, representing benefits due for November 1989 through January 1990, was issued on behalf of the annuitant to the annuitant's daughter, who is the representative payee. The check was certified in February 1990. The nursing home, where the annuitant resides, is owed money for maintenance expenses the annuitant incurred prior to February 1990.
If the accrual is not required for the annuitant's current maintenance and the annuitant had no foreseeable needs which would require large disbursements, the expenditure of the accrual or part thereof for the past due maintenance charges would be consistent with the Board's guidelines.
§ 266.11
Conservation and investment of benefit payments.
(a)
General.
If benefit payments made to a representative payee are not needed for the annuitant's current maintenance or reasonably foreseeable needs or the support of legal dependents or to pay creditors in accordance with § 266.10, they shall be conserved or invested on behalf of the annuitant. Such funds must be invested in accordance with the rules applicable to investment of trust estates by trustees. Any investment must show clearly that the representative payee holds the property in trust for the annuitant.
(b)
Preferred investments.
Preferred investments for excess funds are deposits in an interest or dividend paying account in a bank, trust company, credit union, or savings and loan association which is insured under either Federal or State law, direct obligations of the United States Government or obligations for which both principal and interest are guaranteed unconditionally by the United States Government. The account must be in a form which shows clearly that the representative payee has only a fiduciary, and not a personal, interest in the funds. If the payee is the legally appointed guardian or fiduciary of the annuitant, the account may be established to indicate this relationship. If the payee is not the legally appointed guardian or fiduciary, the accounts may be established as follows:
(1) For U.S. Savings Bonds—
(Name of annuitant)
(Social Security Number), for whom
(Name of payee)
is representative payee for Railroad Retirement benefits;
(2) For interest or dividend paying accounts—
(Name of annuitant) by
(Name of payee), representative payee.
(c)
Interest and dividend payments.
The interest and dividends which result from an investment are the property of the annuitant and may not be considered to be the property of the representative payee.
(d)
Prohibition against commingling.
The representative payee shall not commingle his or her personal funds with the representative payments. A representative payee may consolidate and maintain an annuitant's funds in an account with other annuitants if he or she maintains a separate, accurate
and complete accounting of each annuitant's funds under his or her control.
§ 266.12
Effect of matters or actions submitted or taken by legal guardian, etc.
All matters and actions in connection with an annuity submitted or taken by the guardian or other person legally vested with the care of the person or estate of an incompetent or a minor shall be considered by the Board in the same manner and with the same effect as though such matters or actions had been submitted or taken by the ward, if the ward had capacity to act in his or her own behalf;
Provided, however,
That the Board may, if it deems it necessary, require the guardian or other person legally vested with the care of the person or estate of an incompetent or a minor to submit a certified copy of an order from the court of appointment authorizing some particular action which the guardian or other person legally vested with the care of the person or estate desires to take in connection with the application.
§ 266.13
When a new representative payee will be selected.
When the Board learns that the interests of the annuitant are not served by continuing payment to the present representative payee or that the present representative payee is no longer able to carry out the payee responsibilities, the Board will undertake to find a new representative payee. The Board will select a new representative payee if the Board finds a preferred payee or if the present payee—
(a) Has not used the benefit payments on the annuitant's behalf in accordance with the guidelines in this part;
(b) Has not carried out the other responsibilities described in this part;
(c) Dies;
(d) No longer wishes to be representative payee;
(e) Is unable to manage the benefit payments; or
(f) Fails to cooperate, within a reasonable time, in providing evidence, accounting, or other information which the Board requests.
§ 266.14
When representative payment will be stopped.
If an annuitant receiving representative payment shows the Board that he or she is mentally and physically able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments, the Board will make direct payment to the annuitant. Information which the annuitant may give to the Board to support his or her request for direct payment include the following:
(a) A physician's statement regarding the annuitant's condition, or a statement by a medical officer of the institution where the annuitant is or was confined, showing that the annuitant is able to manage or direct the management of his or her funds;
(b) A certified copy of a court order restoring the annuitant's rights in a case where an annuitant was adjudged legally incompetent; or
(c) Other evidence which establishes the annuitant's ability to manage or direct the management of benefits.
§ 266.15
Transfer of accumulated benefit payments.
A representative payee who has conserved or invested funds from railroad retirement payments made to him or her on behalf of an annuitant shall, upon direction of the Board, transfer any such funds (including interest or dividends earned from investment of such funds) to a successor representative payee appointed by the Board, or, at the option of the Board, shall transfer such funds, including interest, to the Board for payment to a successor payee or to the annuitant.
Pt. 295

# PART 295—PAYMENTS PURSUANT TO COURT DECREE OR COURT-APPROVED PROPERTY SETTLEMENT
Sec.
295.1
Introduction.
295.2
Definitions.
295.3
Documentation and service.
295.4
Review of documentation.
295.5
Limitations.
295.6
Disclosure of information.
295.7
Miscellaneous.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 231f; 45 U.S.C. 231m.

# Source:
51 FR 12845, Apr. 16, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 295.1
Introduction.
(a)
Purpose.
This part implements section 419 of Public Law 98-76 (97 Stat. 438), which amended section 14 of the Railroad Retirement Act to provide that, with respect to annuity amounts payable for months beginning with September 1983, the Board must comply with a court decree of divorce, annulment or legal separation, or with the terms of any court-approved property settlement incident to any such decree, which characterizes specified benefits as property subject to distribution. This part also implements section 1003 of Public Law 109-280 (120 Stat. 1053), which amended section 5 of the Railroad Retirement Act to allow the payment of an employee's tier II benefit component awarded to a former spouse as part of a property distribution incident to a decree of divorce, annulment, or legal separation to continue after the employee's death. Garnishment of benefits for alimony or child support is dealt with in part 350 of this chapter.
(b)
Benefits subject to this part.
Only the following benefits or portions of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act are subject to this part:
(1) Employee annuity net tier II benefit component as provided under section 3(b) of the Railroad Retirement Act;
(2) Employee annuity vested dual benefit component as provided under section 3(h) of the Act;
(3) Employee annuity increase as provided under section 3(f) of the Act; and
(4) Supplemental annuities as provided under section 2(b) of the Act.
[51 FR 12845, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 47045, Aug. 13, 2008]
§ 295.2
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Act
means the Railroad Retirement Act.
Court
means any court of competent jurisdiction of any state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; any court of the United States (as defined in section 451 of title 28 of the United States Code) having competent jurisdiction; any Indian court as defined by section 1301 of title 25 of the United States Code; or any court of competent jurisdiction of a foreign country with which the United States has an agreement requiring the United States to honor any court order of such country.
Court decree
means a final decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal separation issued by a court (including a final decree or order modifying the terms of a previously issued decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal separation), which is issued in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction of that court and which provides for the division of property.
Division of property
means any transfer of property or its value by an individual to his or her spouse or former spouse in compliance with any community property settlement, equitable distribution of property, or other distribution of property between spouses or former spouses, which is intended as a present and complete settlement of the property rights of the parties.
Employee
means an individual who is or was formerly an employee as defined by part 203 of this chapter.
Final decree
means a decree from which no appeal may be taken or from which no appeal has been taken within the time allowed for taking such appeals under the laws applicable to such appeals, or a decree from which timely appeal has been taken and such appeal has been finally decided under the laws applicable to such appeals.
Former spouse
means the former husband or wife of an employee who, on or before the date of a court order, was married to the employee and that marriage has ended by final decree of divorce, dissolution, or annulment.
Property settlement
means an agreement between the parties to a suit for divorce, dissolution, annulment or legal separation in which they expressly agree to a division of their property rights, and which is incorporated in the final decree; is filed with the court in connection with a suit for divorce, dissolution, annulment or legal separation; or is otherwise presented to the court in a suit in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction.
An agreement assigning or transferring property between spouses is not within the purview of this part unless it is subsequently approved by a court in connection with a suit for divorce, dissolution, annulment or legal separation.
Spouse
means the husband or wife of an employee who, on or before the date of a court order, was married to the employee and that marriage has not ended by final decree of divorce, dissolution, or annulment.
[51 FR 12845, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 47045, Aug. 13, 2008]
§ 295.3
Documentation and service.
(a)
Court decree or property settlement.
The Board will honor a court decree or a property settlement which meets the following criteria:
(1) The court decree or property settlement must provide that the spouse or former spouse is awarded payments from railroad retirement annuities payable to the railroad employee.
(2) The court decree or property settlement must specify an amount to be paid to the spouse or former spouse.
(3) The court decree or property settlement must obligate the Board to make payments directly to the spouse or former spouse.
(4) The court decree or property settlement must clearly identify both the employee and the spouse or former spouse to whom payments are to be made.
(5) The court decree or property settlement submitted to the Board must be a recently certified copy of the document filed with the court. Where the award is made in an order modifying and earlier court decree, copies of both the original decree and the subsequent order must be furnished. In the case of a court-approved property settlement, both the settlement and any decree or order incorporating or approving the settlement must be provided.
(b)
Date of decree.
While only benefits payable for months after August, 1983 are subject to this part, the date the decree is entered or the property settlement is approved may precede September 1, 1983. A subsequent modification of a decree which was entered or a property settlement which was approved prior to September 1, 1983 must be in accord which the law of the jurisdiction in which the original decree was entered or the property settlement was approved.
(c)
Supporting documentation.
The spouse or former spouse shall submit such additional documentation as the Board shall require, including but not limited to:
(1) Identifying information concerning the employee such as social security number, railroad retirement claim number, full name, date of birth, and current address.
(2) Identifying information concerning the spouse or former spouse such as social security number, full name, and current address.
(3) A statement that—
(i) No condition of the law of the jurisdiction in which the decree was entered or the property settlement approved and no condition contained in the decree or agreement which requires termination of payment has occurred;
(ii) If any such condition does occur, the spouse or former spouse will immediately notify the Board; and
(iii) The spouse or former spouse agrees to repay any erroneous payment arising from occurrence of any such condition.
(d)
Delivery.
Any court decree or property settlement must be delivered by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service, to the General Counsel of the Railroad Retirement Board, 844 Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611. Where the decree or property settlement is delivered to any other office of the Board, it shall not be considered delivered until the date it is received by the General Counsel. Where the decree or property settlement was furnished to any office of the Board prior to September 1, 1983, delivery is not accomplished until a copy is received by the General Counsel subsequent to August 30, 1983.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0042)
[51 FR 12845, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 47046, Aug. 13, 2008]
§ 295.4
Review of documentation.
(a)
Regularity.
The General Counsel or his or her designee shall review the court decree or property settlement to determine that it complies with both
the law of the jurisdiction, and with Federal law and these regulations.
(b)
Amount.
Ambiguities in the amount to be paid the spouse or former spouse shall be resolved in accord with expressed indications of the court's intent, except that:
(1) Where the amount is expressed in terms of a dollar figure:
(i) If the figure exceeds the total benefits which may be allocated under this part, the excess will be disregarded, provided that any future increase in the benefits subject to this part will be prospectively applied to the excess effective with the date of the benefit increase.
(ii) If the figure is less than the total benefits which may be allocated under this part, only the amount specified will be paid.
(2) Where the amount is expressed as a fraction, percentage, or ratio:
(i) The amount specified shall be applied only against benefits subject to this part, irrespective of the wording of the decree or property settlement.
(ii) When the amount is expressed in terms of a fraction or ratio referring to the length of railroad service, years shall be converted into the equivalent months. If the length of railroad service specified in the decree or property settlement exceeds the number of creditable service months used by the Board to determine the employee's years of service for calculating an annuity, the actual number used by the Board shall be substituted. If the decree understates the actual number of creditable railroad service months, the number of years or months set forth in the decree or property settlement will be used.
(3) An amount may be expressed in any other fashion only to the extent to which it may be readily ascertained from records maintained by the Board in the regular course of administration of the Act.
(4) Unless the order expressly provides otherwise, the Board will deduct the amount specified by the order from any annuity paid to the employee, whether the employee has retired based on age or on disability.
(c)
Notification.
The General Counsel or his or her designee shall make reasonable effort to notify the spouse or former spouse and the employee of a determination that the decree or property settlement does or does not qualify as a decree or property settlement which will be honored pursuant to this part. This notice will be mailed to the most recent address of each party or representative of each party as shown in the Board's records pertaining to the employee. A copy of the decree or property settlement will be provided to the employee with this notice. The notice must state:
(1) The rationale for a determination that the decree or property settlement does not comply with this part; or
(2) The dollar amount or proportion of benefits which will be paid to the spouse or former spouse.
(d)
Withholding after notification.
(1) Where the General Counsel or his or her designee has notified the spouse or former spouse that a decree or property settlement will be honored under this part, but where the employee is not then entitled to any benefits subject to division under this part, the Director of Retirement Benefits will notate the Board's records to reflect both the amount of benefits awarded to the spouse or former spouse pursuant to the decree or property settlement and his or her current address. Where the employee is currently entitled to benefits subject to this part, and the spouse or former spouse has furnished all additional documentation required, the Director of Retirement Benefits will take action to withhold from the employee's monthly benefit the amount stated in the General Counsel's notice under paragraph (c) of this section that the Board will honor the decree or property settlement.
(2) Where the employee was not entitled to benefits subject to this part at the time of the notice by the General Counsel that the Board will honor the decree or property settlement, but the employee becomes so entitled at a later time, the Board will attempt to contact the spouse or former spouse at the most recent address shown in the Board's records pertaining to the employee. The notice will inform the spouse or former spouse that an annuity has been awarded, that the spouse or former spouse may, upon submission of all required documentation, receive
a portion of the annuity, and that the spouse or former spouse should contact the Board within three months from the date of the notice. The Director of Retirement Benefits will initiate withholding of the amount awarded to the spouse or former spouse from the employee's monthly benefit, and will continue to withhold this amount for three successive months; provided, that an initial annuity payment for a retroactive period shall count as one monthly benefit payment. If after the third month's payment has been withheld the Board has received no response from the spouse or former spouse, the amount withheld from the employee's benefit shall be paid to the employee, and the Board take no further action regarding the decree until the spouse or former spouse contacts the Board.
(3) Benefits withheld from the employee may not be paid to a spouse or former spouse until the spouse or former spouse has furnished all supporting documentation required pursuant to § 295.3 of this part. The Board shall allow a reasonable time, not to exceed three months from the date of the initial response from the spouse or former spouse, for the submission of all required documentation. If the documentation is not furnished within the time allowed, payment of the amounts withheld shall be made to the employee.
(4) Any payments made to the employee subsequent to the three-month notice period specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, and prior to receipt of a response or required documentation from the spouse or former spouse, shall be considered properly paid to the employee and the Board shall have no further liability to the spouse or former spouse with respect to such amounts.
[51 FR 12845, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 47046, Aug. 13, 2008]
§ 295.5
Limitations.
(a)
Employee benefit entitlement.
Payments will be made to a spouse or former spouse under this part only if the employee has been awarded an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act. Payments to a spouse or former spouse shall be made only for months and from such amounts with respect to which an annuity is payable to the employee, and, except as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, shall be suspended or terminated for any month in which the annuity of the employee is suspended or terminated. No arrearage accrues to the spouse or former spouse with respect to any month for which the annuity of the employee is suspended or reduced as required under the Act.
(b)
Minimum amount.
The amount of payment to a spouse or former spouse may not be less than one dollar per month.
(c)
Prospective payment.
Payment to a spouse or former spouse may accrue no earlier than the later of the date of delivery, pursuant to § 295.3 of this part, of a court decree or property settlement which will be honored under this part, or from October 1, 1983. The amount to be paid the spouse or former spouse under this part will not be increased to satisfy an arrearage due from the employee.
(d)
Payees.
Payment of an amount awarded to a spouse or former spouse by a court decree or property settlement will be made only to the spouse or former spouse except where the Board determines that another person shall be recognized to act on behalf of the spouse or former spouse as provided by part 266 of this chapter, relating to incompetence. Payment will not be made to the heirs, legatees, creditors or assignees of a spouse or former spouse, except that where an amount is payable to a spouse or former spouse pursuant to this part, but is unpaid at the death of that spouse or former spouse, the unpaid amount may be paid in accordance with § 234.31 of this chapter, pertaining to employee annuities unpaid at death.
(e)
Net amount of benefits.
Notwithstanding the terms of the decree or property settlement, the amount of benefits payable to the employee which are subject to this part shall not include:
(1) Amounts deducted to satisfy a debt due the United States, including any amount withheld to recover erroneous payments under the Railroad Retirement Act, Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, or any other acts administered by the Board; and
(2) Benefits which are waived pursuant to § 243.6 of this chapter.
(f)
Termination.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section payments to a spouse or former spouse terminate on the earlier of—
(1) The date on which the employee annuity terminates;
(2) The date required by the court decree or property settlement or the law of the jurisdiction in which the court decree or property settlement was entered; or
(3) The last day of the month before the month in which the spouse or former spouse dies.
(4) If the employee dies on or after August 17, 2007, a former spouse who is receiving a portion of the employee's annuity pursuant to a court decree or property settlement compliant with this part may continue to receive a portion of the employee's tier II benefit component unless the court decree or property settlement requires such payment to terminate upon the death of the employee.
(g)
Priority.
In the event that the General Counsel receives more than one decree or property settlement from competing parties, benefits shall be available to satisfy the decrees or property settlements on a first come, first served basis governed by the date of receipt by the General Counsel. Conflicting decrees or property settlements received on the same day shall be accorded priority based upon the earliest date upon which the decree or property settlement became final.
[51 FR 12845, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 35807, Sept. 15, 1988; 62 FR 67724, Dec. 30, 1997; 73 FR 47046, Aug. 13, 2008; 86 FR 30493, July 1, 2021]
§ 295.6
Disclosure of information.
(a)
Immunity from process.
The provision for the payment of benefits under this part pursuant to a court decree or property settlement shall not be construed to be a waiver of the sovereign immunity of the Railroad Retirement Board as an agency of the U.S. Government. The Board may not be joined in a suit for divorce, dissolution, annulment or legal separation, or otherwise subjected to the jurisdiction of any state court. Subpoenas, notices of joinder, interrogatories, orders for production of documents, and like state process issued in connection with a suit for divorce, dissolution, annulment or legal separation will be treated as requests for disclosure of information under this section.
(b)
Request for information.
A response to a request for information to be used in connection with a suit for divorce, dissolution, annulment or legal separation may be made by the General Counsel or his or her designee, by the Director of Retirement Benefits, or by a contact representative of the Board's field service.
(c)
Information available.
In the absence of a signed authorization from the employee, a spouse or former spouse who is a party to a suit for divorce, dissolution, annulment or legal separation, or his or her legal representative, may be furnished the amount of benefits the employee is currently receiving. If the employee is not currently entitled to benefits, the Board may furnish the amount of any estimated benefit to which the employee would be entitled if he or she were of retirement age at the time of the request, as reflected by the records of the Board, to the extent it is possible for the Board to compute such amount. The Board shall not be required to furnish the present value of future benefits, the amount of benefits payable at a future date, or any other computations based on statistics or procedures not maintained by the Board in the normal course of administration of the Act.
(d)
Certification.
A letter or statement prepared by a Board official in the regular course of duty from the official records of the Board, which refers to the authority of this section and bears his or her signature, shall be a sufficient response for purposes of discharging the responsibilities of the Board under this section. A certification in accordance with this section may be considered a public document for purposes of admissibility as evidence of present or potential benefits under the Act for use in a divorce, dissolution, annulment or legal separation proceeding.
[51 FR 12845, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 47046, Aug. 13, 2008]
§ 295.7
Miscellaneous.
(a)
Disbursement cycle.
In honoring and complying with a court decree or property settlement, the Board shall not be required to disrupt its normal disbursement cycle, despite any special schedule of accrual or payment of amounts due the spouse or former spouse set forth in the decree or settlement. A decree or settlement received too late to be honored during the disbursement cycle in which it was received shall be honored with respect to the next payment due the employee.
(b)
Liability for payments.
Neither the Board nor any of its employees shall be liable with respect to any payment made to any individual from moneys due from or payable by the Board pursuant to a court decree or property settlement regular on its face, if such payment is made in accordance with this part.
(c)
Liability for disclosures.
No employee of the Board whose duties include responding to requirements contained in this part shall be subject under any law to any disciplinary action or civil or criminal liability or penalty for, or on account of, any disclosure of information made by such employee in connection with the performance of the employee's duties in making such response.
(d)
Applicable law.
For purposes of a proceeding under this part, the Board will apply the law of the jurisdiction in which the court decree or property settlement was issued unless it comes to the attention of the Board that the state of issuance has no contact with the plaintiff or defendant in the action; in which case, the Board may, in its sole discretion, apply the law of any jurisdiction with significant interest in the matter.
(e)
Erroneous payments.
(1) If a spouse or former spouse receives a payment pursuant to this part from an employee's benefit, and the Board later determines that the employee was not entitled to all or part of those benefits for any month, the amount of the employee's benefits which was paid to the spouse or former spouse in excess of the amount which was actually payable shall be an erroneous payment to the spouse or former spouse within the meaning of section 10 of the Railroad Retirement Act.
(2) Where all documentation required by this part is in the Board's records pertaining to the employee prior to the time the employee annuity is awarded, but where the Board due to clerical oversight fails to withhold the amount awarded by the court order, then the Board shall begin deduction from the employee annuity with the month the error is discovered, and shall pay the amount which should have been withheld pursuant to this part to the spouse or former spouse. The amount paid to the spouse or former spouse representing months for which the amount under the order was not timely withheld shall be an erroneous payment to the employee within the meaning of section 10 of the Railroad Retirement Act. This section shall not apply where the Board has attempted to contact the spouse or former spouse at the time the employee annuity is awarded pursuant to § 295.4(d).
[51 FR 12845, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 47046, Aug. 13, 2008]

# SUBCHAPTER C—REGULATIONS UNDER THE RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT
Pt. 300

# PART 300—DEFINITIONS

# Authority:
Sec. 12, 52 Stat. 1107, as amended; 45 U.S.C. 362. Interprets or applies sec. 1, 52 Stat. 1094, as amended; 45 U.S.C. 351.
§ 300.1
Words and phrases.
For the purposes of the regulations in this part, except where the language or context indicates otherwise:
(a) The term “act” means the Railroad Unemployment Insurance act.
(b) The term “employer” means an employer as defined in the act and part 201 of this chapter.
(c) The term “Board” means the Railroad Retirement Board.
(d) The term “person” includes an individual, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint stock company, company, corporation, and institution.
(e) The term “United States”, when used in a geographical sense, means the States and the District of Columbia.
(f) The term “State” means any of the States or the District of Columbia.
(g) The term “employment” means service performed as an employee.
(h) The term “local lodges and divisions” and the term “local lodge or division” as used in section 1(a) and 1(d), respectively, of the act, shall be construed to include any subordinate unit of a national railway labor organization defined as an “employer” under the act, which unit functions in the same manner as, or similar to “local lodges” as that term is ordinarily used, irrespective of the designation of such unit by its national organization.
[Board Order 40-368 and Board Order 40-385, 5 FR 2717, Aug. 1, 1940, as amended by Board Order 68-72, 33 FR 11114, Aug. 6, 1968]
Pt. 301

# PART 301—EMPLOYERS UNDER THE ACT
Sec.
301.1
Statutory provisions.
301.4
Who are employers.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 362(1).
§ 301.1
Statutory provisions.
(a) The term “employer” means any carrier (as defined in subsection (b) of this section), and any company which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more such carriers or under common control therewith, and which operates any equipment or facility or performs any service (except trucking service, casual service, and the casual operation of equipment or facilities) in connection with the transportation of passengers or property by railroad, or the receipt, delivery, elevation, transfer in transit, refrigeration or icing, storage, or handling of property transported by railroad, and any receiver, trustee, or other individual or body, judicial or otherwise, when in the possession of the property or operating all or any part of the business of any such employer:
Provided, however,
That the term “employer” shall not include any street, interurban, or suburban electric railway, unless such railway is operating as a part of a general steam-railroad system of transportation, but shall not exclude any part of the general steam-railroad system of transportation now or hereafter operated by any other motive power. The Interstate Commerce Commission is hereby authorized and directed upon request of the Board, or upon complaint of any party interested, to determine after hearing whether any line operated by electric power falls within the terms of this proviso. The term “employer” shall also include railroad associations, traffic associations, tariff bureaus, demurrage bureaus, weighing and inspection bureaus, collection agencies, and other associations, bureaus, agencies, or organizations controlled and maintained wholly or principally by two or more employers as hereinbefore defined and engaged in the performance of services in connection with or incidental to railroad transportation; and railway labor organizations, national in scope, which have been or may be organized in accordance with the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, and their State and National legislative committees and their general committees and their insurance departments and their local lodges and divisions, established pursuant to the constitution and bylaws of such organizations.
The term “employer” shall not include any company by reason of its being engaged in the mining of coal, the supplying of coal to an employer where delivery is not beyond the mine tipple, and the operation of equipment or facilities therefor, or in any of such activities. * * *
(b) The term “carrier” means an express company, sleeping-car company, or carrier
by railroad, subject to part I of the Interstate Commerce Act.
[Board Order 40-368, 5 FR 2718, Aug. 1, 1940, as amended by Board Order 41-526, 7 FR 97, Jan. 6, 1942]
§ 301.4
Who are employers.
The provisions of § 201.1(k) and the provisions of §§ 202.2 through 202.15 of this chapter shall be applicable to the determination of who are employers under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act to the same extent and in the same manner as they are applicable to the determination of who are employers under the Railroad Retirement Act of 1937.
[Board Order 40-368, 5 FR 2718, Aug. 1, 1940]
Pt. 302

# PART 302—QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE
Sec.
302.1
Introduction.
302.2
Definitions.
302.3
Qualifying conditions.
302.4
Nonqualifying earnings or payments.
302.5
Accelerated benefit year.
302.6
Publication requirements.
302.7
Establishing base year service and compensation.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 362(1).

# Source:
56 FR 6966, Feb. 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 302.1
Introduction.
This part sets forth the base year service and compensation required of an employee to qualify for benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act with respect to a benefit year. Under the Act, only employees who satisfy the qualifying conditions of section 3 of the Act may be paid benefits. No provision is made for payment of dependents benefits for an employee's spouse or children. A qualified employee who claims benefits must demonstrate that he or she is eligible for benefits in accordance with the other provisions of the Act and this chapter. However, a qualified employee who is disqualified under any of the provisions of section 4 of the Act does not forfeit his or her status as a qualified employee.
§ 302.2
Definitions.
Base year.
The term “base year” means the completed calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the benefit year.
Benefit year.
The term “benefit year” means the 12-month period beginning July 1 of any year and ending June 30 of the next year. If a registration period begins in June and ends in July, the benefit year ending date is deemed to be the last day of such registration period. If an employee is eligible for payment of extended benefits, the benefit year ending date for such employee will be June 30, or the last day of his or her extended benefit period, whichever date is later.
Compensation.
The term “compensation” means generally any form of earnings or money remuneration earned on the basis of railroad employment during any month, excluding any amount in excess of the monthly compensation base for that month and also excluding payments of the character described in § 302.4 of this part.
Monthly compensation base.
The term “monthly compensation base” means the greater of $600, or the amount calculated using the following formula:
EC14NO91.108
For the purpose of this formula, “MCB” is the dollar amount of the monthly compensation base, and “A” is the amount of the Tier I tax base under section 3231(e)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code for the calendar year for which the monthly compensation base is being computed. If the dollar amount computed under this formula is not a multiple of $5, it shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $5. If the dollar amount computed is equidistant between two multiples of $5, it shall be rounded up the nearest multiple of $5.
Registration period.
With respect to unemployment benefits, the term “registration period” has the meaning given in § 325.1(c) of this chapter. With respect to sickness benefits, the term “registration period” has the meaning given in § 335.1(d) of this chapter.
[56 FR 6966, Feb. 21, 1991; 56 FR 10302, Mar. 11, 1991]
§ 302.3
Qualifying conditions.
(a)
Basic requirements.
To qualify for benefits with respect to a benefit year, an employee:
(1) Must have earned compensation in an amount equal to at least 2.5 times the amount of the monthly compensation base during his or her base year; and
(2) If such employee has earned no compensation prior to such base year, he or she must have earned compensation in at least five months during his or her base year.
(b)
Deemed service months disregarded.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, service months deemed under § 210.3 of this chapter shall be disregarded.
§ 302.4
Nonqualifying earnings or payments.
The following types of earnings or payments do not count as compensation for the purpose of determining whether an employee has satisfied the base year qualifying conditions:
(a) Compensation earned as an employee representative, as defined in part 205 of this chapter, or as an employee of a local lodge or division of a railway labor organization;
(b) Tips;
(c) Payments under nongovernmental plans for unemployment, maternity or sickness insurance;
(d) Personal injury settlements or judgments, unless a portion thereof represents pay for time lost;
(e) Wages from employment that is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act;
(f) Earnings from self-employment or investments;
(g) Pay for military service;
(h) Remuneration for service which is performed by a nonresident alien individual for the period he or she is temporarily present in the United States as a nonimmigrant under subparagraph (F) or (J) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, and which is performed to carry out the purpose specified in subparagraph (F) or (J), as the case may be; and
(i) Any payment that is not subject to contributions under section 8 of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.
[56 FR 6966, Feb. 21, 1991; 56 FR 10302, Mar. 11, 1991]
§ 302.5
Accelerated benefit year.
(a)
Eligibility conditions.
An employee who is not a qualified employee with respect to the benefit year in effect at the time of his or her application for benefits may be eligible for an “accelerated” benefit year if he or she meets all of the following conditions.
(1) The employee has 10 or more years of service, as defined in part 210 of this chapter, prior to the beginning of his or her current period of unemployment or sickness;
(2) The employee has satisfied the qualifying conditions as defined in § 302.3 of this part with respect to the next succeeding benefit year;
(3) The employee's current period of unemployment or sickness includes at least 14 consecutive days of unemployment or 14 consecutive days of sickness; and
(4)(i) If the applicant is claiming unemployment benefits, he or she did not voluntarily leave work without good cause or did not voluntarily retire, or
(ii) If the applicant is claiming sickness benefits, he or she has not attained age 65 or has not voluntarily retired.
(b)
Beginning date of benefit year.
An accelerated benefit year begins on the first day of the month during which the employee's period of 14 consecutive days of unemployment or 14 consecutive days of sickness begins. Thus, for example, if an eligible employee has 14 consecutive days of unemployment from May 29-June 11, his or her benefit year beginning date is May 1, that is, he or she does not have to wait until July 1 to begin receiving benefits. If such employee also had a claim for the period May 15 to May 28, such claim may then be compensable or may serve as the waiting period even though the claim did not consist of 14 days of unemployment. His or her benefit year ends June 30 of the following year.
(c)
Effect of attaining age 65.
If a benefit year begins early for the purpose of paying sickness benefits and the employee attains age 65 before July 1 of
the general benefit year, sickness benefits may not be paid for any day from the day on which the employee attained age 65 up to and including June 30, but unemployment benefits may be paid in this interim period if the employee is otherwise eligible. Sickness benefits may be paid for days of sickness beginning July 1 or later. If a benefit year begins early for the purpose of paying unemployment benefits, attainment of age 65 will have no effect on the employee's rights to sickness benefits, other than extended sickness benefits, in the accelerated benefit year. An employee is deemed to attain age 65 on the day before his or her sixty-fifth birthday.
§ 302.6
Publication requirements.
(a)
Publication of base year compensation requirement.
On or before December 1 of each year, the Railroad Retirement Board will compute the amount of base year compensation that an employee must have during the following calendar year in order to be a qualified employee on the basis of such compensation. Within 10 days of such computation, the Board will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of the amount so computed and will notify each employer of that amount. Information as to such qualifying amount may also be obtained from any district or regional office of the Railroad Retirement Board or from the Bureau of Unemployment and Sickness Insurance.
(b)
Notices.
The Board will provide employers with notices of their employees' rights to benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. The Board will arrange with employers to post such notices in such numbers and in such places as may be necessary to ensure that they will be seen by the greatest number of employees.
§ 302.7
Establishing base year service and compensation.
(a)
Employer reports.
In determining whether an applicant for benefits is a qualified employee, the Board will rely initially upon reports of base year service and compensation provided by employers in accordance with part 209 of this chapter.
(b)
No employer report located.
If the Board cannot locate the employer's report of base year service and compensation for an applicant, the applicant will be afforded an opportunity, by completing the form prescribed by the Board, to provide such other statement, information, evidence or documentation to establish his or her status as a qualified employee. An employee's claim for credit for service or compensation that is not shown in the Board's records of service and compensation shall be verified in accordance with §§ 210.7 and 211.14 of this chapter.
(c)
Employer fails to report.
When an employer has failed or refuses to file a report under part 209 of this chapter, an employee may establish his or her base year service and compensation by submitting:
(1) Statements, under oath or otherwise, signed by an official or duly authorized employee of a Federal or State governmental agency, based upon reports to the agency by the employer; or
(2) Statements, under oath or otherwise, signed by an officer or a duly authorized employee of the employer, or if not so signed, on forms prepared by the employer.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 3220-0025 and 3220-0070)
Pt. 319

# PART 319—PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING LIABILITY FOR CONTRIBUTIONS OR REPAYMENTS OF BENEFITS
Sec.
319.1
Statutory provisions.
319.2
Procedure for determining entitlement to benefits awarded where employer status is denied, and for determining liability for contributions.

# Authority:
Sec. 12, 52 Stat. 1107, as amended; 45 U.S.C. 362.
§ 319.1
Statutory provisions.
* * * In any case in which benefits are awarded to a claimant in whole or in part upon the basis of pay earned in the service of a person or company found by the Board to be an employer as defined in this Act but which denies that it is such an employer, such benefits awarded on such basis shall be
paid to such claimant subject to a right of recovery of such benefits. The Board shall thereupon designate one of its officers or employees to receive evidence and to report to the Board on whether such benefits should be repaid. The Board may also designate one of its officers or employees to receive evidence and report to the Board whether or not any person or company is entitled to a refund of contributions or should be required to pay contributions under this Act, regardless of whether or not any claims for benefits will have been filed upon the basis of service in the employ of such person or company, and shall follow such procedure if contributions are assessed and payment is refused or payment is made and a refund claimed upon the basis that such person or company is or will not have been liable for such contributions. In any such case the Board or the person so designated shall, by publication or otherwise, notify all parties properly interested of their right to participate in the proceeding and, if a hearing is to be held, of the time and place of the hearing. At the request of any party properly interested the Board shall provide for a hearing, and may provide for a hearing on its own motion. The Board shall prescribe regulations governing the proceedings provided for in this paragraph and for decisions upon such proceedings.
Final decision of the Board in the cases provided for in the preceding two paragraphs shall be communicated to the claimant and to the other interested parties within fifteen days after it is made. Any properly interested party notified, as hereinabove provided, of his right to participate in the proceedings may obtain a review of any such decision by which he claims to be aggrieved or the determination of any issue therein in the manner provided in subsection (f) of this section with respect to the review of the Board's decisions upon claims for benefits and subject to all provisions of law applicable to the review of such decisions. Subject only to such review, the decision of the Board upon all issues determined in such decision shall be final and conclusive for all purposes and shall conclusively establish all rights and obligations, arising under this Act, of every party notified as hereinabove provided of his right to participate in the proceedings.
Any issue determinable pursuant to this subsection and subsection (f) of this section shall not be determined in any manner other than pursuant to this subsection and subsection (f). (Section 5(c), Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.)
In any proceeding other than a court proceeding, the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling, but a full and complete record shall be kept of all proceedings and testimony, and the Board's final determination, together with its findings of fact and conclusions of law in connection therewith, shall be communicated to the parties within fifteen days after the date of such final determinations.
(Section 5(e), Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.)
Any claimant, or any railway labor organization organized in accordance with the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, of which claimant is a member, or any other party aggrieved by a final decision under subsection (c) of this section, may, only after all administrative remedies within the Board will have been availed of and exhausted, obtain a review of any final decision of the Board by filing a petition for review within ninety days after the mailing of notice of such decision to the claimant or other party, or within such further time as the Board may allow, in the United States court of appeals for the circuit in which the claimant or other party resides or will have had his principal place of business or principal executive office, or in the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit or in the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. * * * (Section 5(f), Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.)
[Board Order 58-142, 23 FR 9089, Nov. 22, 1958]
§ 319.2
Procedure for determining entitlement to benefits awarded where employer status is denied, and for determining liability for contributions.
(a) The Board may designate one of its officers or employees as examiner to receive evidence and report to the Board (1) whether or not a claimant should repay benefits awarded in whole or in part upon the basis of pay earned in the service of a person or company found by the Board to be an employer as defined in the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, but which denies that it is such an employer, or (2) whether or not any person or company is entitled to a refund of contributions or should be required to pay contributions under the Act. Such procedure shall be followed if contributions are assessed and payment is refused or payment is made and a refund claimed upon the basis that such person or company is or will not have been liable for such contributions. The examiner shall have power to hold hearings, require and compel the attendance of witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and make all necessary investigations. At the request of any party properly interested, the Board shall
provide for a hearing before such examiner, and may provide for a hearing on its own motion. The examiner shall, by publication or otherwise, notify all parties properly interested of their right to participate in the proceeding and if a hearing is to be held, of the time and place of the hearing.
(b) All evidence and argument presented by any party, and all evidence developed by the examiner, shall be preserved and shall constitute a part of the record. All oral evidence presented at any hearing, and all oral argument, shall be reduced to writing. The record at any time shall be available for examination by any properly interested party or his representative.
(c) Upon the completion of any proceeding, the examiner shall upon the basis of the entire record, render a report to the Board as soon as practicable, and within five days after the making thereof shall send a copy of the report to each party appearing in the proceeding by mailing such copy to him at the address stated in his appearance. Such report shall contain a statement of (1) the issue or issues raised, (2) the evidence submitted, (3) findings of fact, (4) conclusions of law, and (5) a recommended determination.
(d) Any party to the proceeding may, within twenty days after the mailing to him of a copy of the examiner's report, file with the Board, and serve upon other parties by mailing to their addresses as stated in their appearances, such exceptions in writing as he desires to make to the examiner's findings of fact and conclusions of law. Each exception shall specifically designate the particular finding of fact or conclusion of law to which exception is taken, and shall set forth in detail the grounds of the exception. General exceptions and exceptions not specifically directed to particular findings of fact or conclusions of law will not be considered. Each party shall have ten days after the receipt of exceptions taken by other parties in which to file with the Board replies to the exceptions. The Board may, upon the application of any party and for cause shown, extend the time for filing and serving of exceptions or filing of replies thereto. The examiner's report shall be advisory but shall be presumed to be correct. Findings of fact to which no exceptions are taken will, subject only to the power of the Board to reject or modify, stand confirmed.
(e) The Board will render its decision upon the record and upon the basis of the examiner's report and such exceptions and replies thereto as are made. Further argument will not be permitted except upon a showing by any party that he has arguments to present which for valid reasons he was unable to present at an earlier stage, and in cases in which the Board requests further elaboration of arguments. In such cases, the further argument shall be submitted orally or in writing, as the Board may indicate in each case, and shall be subject to such restrictions as to form, subject matter, length, and time as the Board may indicate. The decision of the Board will be communicated to all parties to the proceeding within fifteen days after it has been made by mailing a copy of the decision to each such party at the address furnished by him.
(f) The decision of the Board, with respect to all issues determined therein, shall be final and conclusive for all purposes, and shall conclusively establish all rights and obligations, arising under any act administered by the Board, of every person notified of his right to participate in the proceeding.
(g) Any properly interested party notified of his right to participate in the proceeding may, as provided in section 5(c) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, and in accordance with the provisions of section 5(f) of the Act, obtain judicial review of a final decision of the Board, under this section, by which he claims to be aggrieved, by filing a petition for review in the proper court within ninety days after the mailing to him of notice of such decision, or within such further time as the Board may allow. Such petition for review must be filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the party resides or will have had his principal place of business or principal executive office, or in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit or in the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
(h) Insofar as applicable and not inconsistent with the preceding provisions of this section, the provisions of §§ 250.7 to 250.16 of this chapter shall be followed in any proceeding under this section.
[Board Order 58-142, 23 FR 9089, Nov. 22, 1958]
Pt. 320

# PART 320—INITIAL DETERMINATIONS UNDER THE RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT AND REVIEWS OF AND APPEALS FROM SUCH DETERMINATIONS
Sec.
320.1
Introduction.
320.2
Definitions.
320.5
Initial determinations.
320.6
Adjudicating office.
320.8
Notice of initial determination.
320.9
Notice of erroneous benefit payment.
320.10
Reconsideration of initial determination.
320.11
Request for waiver of recovery.
320.12
Appeal to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals.
320.18
Hearings officer.
320.19
Election to participate.
320.20
Powers of hearings officer.
320.22
Notice of hearing.
320.25
Hearing of appeal.
320.28
Record of evidence considered.
320.30
Decision or report of hearings officer.
320.32
Effect of decision of hearings officer.
320.35
Review of decision of hearings officer on motion of Board.
320.38
Appeal to Board from decision of hearings officer.
320.39
Execution and filing of appeal to Board from decision of hearings officer.
320.40
Procedure before the Board on appeal from a decision of a hearings officer.
320.41
Procedure before Board after submission of report by hearings officer.
320.42
Decision of Board.
320.45
Judicial review.
320.48
Representatives of parties.
320.49
Determination of date of filing.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 355 and 362(1).

# Source:
Board Order 58-142, 23 FR 9090, Nov. 22, 1958, unless otherwise noted.
§ 320.1
Introduction.
This part explains which units of the Board are authorized to make initial determinations with respect to entitlement to benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act and waiver of recovery of overpayments under that Act. This part explains how notice of such determinations is to be communicated to the claimant and to his or her base-year employer(s) and how these determinations may be appealed.
[56 FR 65679, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.2
Definitions.
As used in this part—
Base-year employer
means the railroad employer(s) for whom a claimant worked and earned compensation creditable under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act during the base year. The base year is the calendar year immediately preceding the benefit year for which a claim is being filed. A benefit year is generally the period July 1 through the following June 30.
Party
means the claimant, the base-year employer(s), or any person so designated under this part.
[56 FR 65679, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.5
Initial determinations.
An initial determination shall be made with respect to each claim for unemployment or sickness benefits by the appropriate adjudicating office as provided by § 320.6 of this part. Prior to making an initial determination the Board shall provide the claimant's base-year employer(s) and most recent employer if different with notice that a claim has been filed and that the employer(s) has an opportunity to submit information which may be pertinent to the adjudication of the claim. The adjudicating office shall make its determination on the basis of the claimant's application and claim and any relevant information or evidence including any information received from the base-year employer(s). A determination allowing payment of an initial claim shall not establish a presumption that benefits for subsequent claims in the same period of unemployment or sickness are also payable. The Director of Policy and Systems shall issue instructions with respect to the adjudication of claims and initial determination on such claims. If it is found that only part of the benefits claimed may initially be paid, a partial payment shall be made prior to a final decision on the whole claim.
[56 FR 65679, Dec. 18, 1991, as amended at 77156, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 320.6
Adjudicating office.
(a) The term “adjudicating office” means any subordinate office of the Board which is authorized to make initial determinations and reconsideration decisions with respect to claims for benefits. The following paragraphs state which offices of the Board are adjudicating offices and define their authority to make determinations or decisions.
(b)
Field offices.
Field offices are authorized to make initial determinations on the following issues relating to eligibility for unemployment or sickness benefits, as the case may be:
(1) Availability for work;
(2) Voluntary leaving of work, with or without good cause;
(3) Failure to accept work or apply for work or failure to report to an employment office;
(4) Timely registration for unemployment benefits under § 325.2 of this chapter and timely filing of claims for sickness benefits under § 335.4(c) of this chapter;
(5) Receipt of remuneration for claimed days of unemployment or sickness, as the case may be;
(6) Mileage or work restrictions and stand-by or lay-over rules;
(7) Whether the claimant's unemployment is due to a strike.
(8) Whether a claimant's earnings attributable to days in a period for which he or she has registered for unemployment benefits exceed the amount of the applicable monthly compensation base.
(c)
Field Service-Headquarters.
Field Service-Headquarters staff are authorized to make determinations on any of the issues listed in paragraph (b) of this section. In addition, Field Service-Headquarters staff are authorized to make initial determinations on the following issues:
(1) Erroneous payment of benefits, including fraud;
(2) Applicability of the disqualification in section 4(a-2)(iii) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act if the claimant's unemployment results from a strike against a non-railroad employer by which he is employed;
(3) Determination of the amount of the Board's claim for reimbursement from pay for time lost payments under section 2(f) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act or damages for personal injury under section 12(o) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.
(d)
Director of Operations.
The Director of Operations is authorized to make determinations on all issues of eligibility for unemployment and sickness benefits as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and on any other issue not reserved to the Director of Policy and Systems by paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Director of Policy and Systems.
The Director of Policy and Systems shall adjudicate:
(1) The applicability of the disqualification in section 4(a-2)(iii) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act if the claimant's unemployment results from a strike against a railroad employer by which he or she is employed; and
(2) Whether a plan submitted by an employer or other person or company qualifies as a nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance, within the meaning of part 323 of this chapter.
(f)
Debt Recovery Manager.
The Debt Recovery Manager shall adjudicate:
(1) All requests for waiver of recovery of an erroneous payment made under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act; and
(2) Offers of compromise of debts arising out of the benefit provisions of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.
[53 FR 2486, Jan. 28, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 28534, June 1, 1995; 67 FR 77156, Dec. 17, 2002; 80 FR 13764, Mar. 17, 2015]
§ 320.8
Notice of initial determination.
(a)
Benefits payable.
If benefits are payable for a claim, no special notice of the award will be issued to the claimant. A notice of the award will be sent to the base-year employer(s). The amount of benefits due will be certified to the United States Treasury Department for payment.
(b)
Benefits not payable.
If an initial determination results in denial of a claim, either in whole or in part, the adjudicating office shall issue a notice of the denial within 15 days of the date that it makes its determination. The notice shall explain the basis for the
denial of benefits and shall set forth what steps the claimant can take to contest the denial.
(c)
Communication of notice of denial.
When the adjudicating office mails the denial notice to the claimant's address of record, it shall be considered that notice of the denial has been communicated to the claimant on the date of mailing such notice. If the adjudicating office has been notified that a claimant has an attorney or other representative helping him or her with the claim, a copy of the denial notice shall be sent to the attorney or such other representative.
[53 FR 2486, Jan. 28, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 65679, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.9
Notice of erroneous benefit payment.
(a)
Content of notice.
When an adjudicating office determines that benefits were paid erroneously, that office shall issue to the claimant a notice of the amount of the erroneous payment and the basis for the determination. The notice shall include a statement telling the claimant of his or her right to request reconsideration of the determination, of the provisions for waiver and of his or her right to request waiver.
(b)
Communication of notice of erroneous payment.
When the adjudicating office mails the erroneous payment notice to the claimant's address of record, it shall be considered that notice of the erroneous payment has been communicated to the claimant on the date of mailing such notice. If the adjudicating office has been notified that a claimant has an attorney or other representative helping him or her with the claim, a copy of the erroneous payment notice shall be sent to the attorney or such other representative.
[53 FR 2486, Jan. 28, 1988]
§ 320.10
Reconsideration of initial determination.
(a)
Request.
A claimant shall have the right to request reconsideration of an initial determination under § 320.5 of this part which denies in whole or in part his or her claim for benefits. A claimant shall have the right to request reconsideration of a notice of overpayment under § 320.9 of this part. The base-year employer(s) shall have the right to request reconsideration of an initial determination under § 320.5 of this part which awards in whole or in part a claimant's claim for benefits. A reconsideration request shall be made in writing and addressed to the adjudicating office that issued the initial determination and must be received by the adjudicating office no later than 60 days from the date of the notice of the initial decision. A railroad employer may fulfill the written request requirement by using an electronic system that has been approved by the agency in the manner prescribed by the agency.
(b)
Review of evidence.
Upon request, the party requesting reconsideration shall have an opportunity to review all evidence and documents that pertain to the initial determination. The Board shall made all reasonable efforts to protect the identity of the source of adverse evidence.
(c)
Notice of decision.
The adjudicating office shall, as soon as possible, render a decision on the request for reconsideration. If a decision rendered by a district office, as the adjudicating office, sustains the initial determination, either in whole or in part, the decision shall be referred to the appropriate Field Service-Headquarters staff for review prior to issuance. The party who requested reconsideration shall be notified, in writing, of the decision on reconsideration no later than 15 days from the date of the decision or, where the Field Service-Headquarters staff has conducted a review of the decision, within 7 days following the completion of the review. If the decision results in denial of benefits, the claimant shall be notified of the right to appeal as provided in § 320.12 of this part. If the decision results in payment of benefits, the base-year employer(s) shall be notified of the right to appeal as provided in § 320.12 of this part.
(d)
Right to further review of initial determination.
The right to further review of a determination made under § 320.5 or § 320.9 of this part shall be forfeited unless a written request for reconsideration is filed within the time period prescribed in this section or good cause
is shown by the party requesting reconsideration for failing to file a timely request for reconsideration. A railroad employer may fulfill the written request requirement by using an electronic system approved by the agency in the manner prescribed by the agency.
(e)
Timely request for reconsideration.
In determining whether either the claimant or the base-year employer(s) has good cause for failure to file a timely request for reconsideration, the adjudicating office shall consider the circumstances which kept either the claimant or the base-year employer(s) from filing the request on time and whether any action by the Board misled either of them. Examples of circumstances where good cause may exist include, but are not limited to:
(1) A serious illness which prevented the claimant from contacting the Board in person, in writing, or through a friend, relative or other person;
(2) A death or serious illness in the claimant's immediate family which prevented him or her from filing.
(3) The destruction of important and relevant records;
(4) A failure to be notified of a decision;
(5) The existence of an unusual or unavoidable circumstance which demonstrates that either the claimant or the base-year employer(s) would not have known of the need to file timely or which prevented either of them from filing in a timely manner; or
(6) The claimant thought that his or her representative had requested reconsideration.
[56 FR 65679, Dec. 18, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 77156, Dec. 17, 2002; 71 FR 53004, Sept. 8, 2006; 80 FR 13764, Mar. 17, 2015]
§ 320.11
Request for waiver of recovery.
(a)
Time limitation.
The claimant shall have 60 days from the date of the notification of the erroneous payment determination in which to file a request for waiver, except that where an erroneous payment is not subject to waiver in accordance with § 340.10(e) of this chapter, waiver may not be requested and recovery will not be stayed. Such requests shall be made in writing and be filed by mail or in person at any Board office. The claimant shall, along with the request, submit any evidence and argument which he or she would like to present in support of his or her case. A request solely for reconsideration of an overpayment shall not be considered a request for waiver under this section but shall be treated as a request for reconsideration under § 320.10 of this part.
(b)
Recovery action.
Where a claimant has made a timely request for waiver of recovery, no action will be taken to recover the erroneous payment by setoff against current benefits prior to a decision on such request;
provided however,
That the Board may, prior to a decision, withhold the amount of the erroneous payment from benefit payments under any of the following circumstances:
(1) The claimant admits he or she was at fault in causing the overpayment;
(2) The claimant is found to have committed fraud;
(3) The claimant authorizes recovery by setoff or agrees to repayment; or
(4) The amount of erroneous payment is not subject to waiver or provided for in § 340.10(e) of this chapter.
(c)
Review of evidence.
Upon request, the claimant shall have an opportunity to review all evidence and documents that pertain to the erroneous payment determination.
(d)
Decision.
The Debt Recovery Manager shall make a decision on the claimant's request for waiver of recovery and shall notify the claimant accordingly. The decision of the Manager shall include the basis of the decision, setting forth his or her reasons for the decision including the impact, if any, of any evidence submitted by the base-year or last employer. If the Manager decides that waiver of recovery is not appropriate, the adjudicating office shall wait 15 days from the date of the notification of the waiver decision before taking any action to recover the erroneous payment. If the Manager decides that recovery should be waived, any amount of the erroneous payment so waived but previously recovered by setoff shall be refunded to the claimant.
(e)
Appeal.
If the Debt Recovery Manager decides that waiver of recovery is
not appropriate, the claimant shall have the right to appeal such decision as provided under § 320.12 of this part.
(f)
Requests made after 60 days.
Nothing in this section shall be taken to mean that waiver of recovery will not be considered in those cases where the request for waiver is not filed within 60 days, but action to recover the erroneous payment will not be deferred if such request is not filed within 60 days, and any amount of the erroneous payment recovered prior to the date on which the request is filed shall not be subject to waiver under part 340 of this chapter. Further, it shall not be considered that a claimant prejudices his or her request for waiver by tendering all or a portion of an erroneous payment or by selecting a particular method of repaying the debt. However, no waiver consideration shall be given to a debt which is settled by compromise.
(g)
Evidence provided by base-year employer(s) and most recent employer, if different.
In making a decision under paragraph (d) of this section, the Debt Recovery Manager shall consider all evidence of record including any evidence submitted by the claimant's base-year employer(s) and the most recent employer, if different. Where a claimant has requested waiver the Manager shall notify his or her base-year employer(s) and the most recent employer, if different, of the right to submit, within 30 days, any information which may be pertinent to the waiver decision.
[56 FR 65680, Dec. 18, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 77156, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 320.12
Appeal to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals.
(a) Any party aggrieved by a decision under § 320.10 of this part or a claimant aggrieved by a decision under § 320.11 of this part may appeal such decision to the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals. Such an appeal shall be made by filing the form prescribed by the Board for such purpose. The appeal must be filed with the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals within 60 days from the date upon which notice of the decision on reconsideration or waiver of recovery was mailed to either a claimant or the base year employer(s). Any written request stating an intent to appeal which is received within the 60-day period will protect the claimant's or base-year employer's right to appeal,
Provided that
the claimant or base-year employer files the appeal form within the later of the 60-day period from the date of the reconsideration decision, or the 30-day period following the date of the Board's letter sending the appeal form to the claimant or base-year employer.
(b) If no appeal is filed within the time limits specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the decision of the adjudicating office under §§ 320.10 or 320.11 of this part shall be considered final and no further review of such decision shall be available unless the hearings officer finds that there was good cause for the failure to file a timely appeal as described in § 320.10 of this part.
(c) Where a timely appeal seeking waiver of recovery of an erroneous payment has been filed with the Bureau of Hearings and Appeals, the Board shall not commence recovery of the erroneous payment by suspension or reduction of a monthly benefit payable by the Board until a decision with respect to such appeal seeking waiver has been made and notice thereof has been mailed to the claimant.
[67 FR 77157, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 320.18
Hearings officer.
Within a reasonable time after a party has filed a properly executed appeal, the Director of Hearings and Appeals shall appoint a hearings officer to act in the appeal. Such hearings officer shall not have any interest in the parties or in the outcome of the proceeding, shall not have directly participated in the initial determination from which the appeal is made, and shall not have any other interest in the matter which might prevent a fair and impartial hearing. In any case in which employee status or creditability of compensation is an issue, the hearings officer shall receive evidence and report to the Board thereon with recommendations. In all other cases, the hearings officer shall consider and decide the appeal; in each such case where the hearings officer determines that an issue of fact exists, the parties shall have the right to a hearing.
[56 FR 65680, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.19
Election to participate.
(a)
Claimant files an appeal.
Where the claimant has filed an appeal under § 320.12 of this part the hearings officer shall notify the claimant's base-year employer(s) that such an appeal has been filed and shall provide the base-year employer with a statement of issues on appeal. The hearings officer shall inform the base-year employer(s) that such employer(s) shall have a right to be present at any hearing which is to be held under this part and the right to submit evidence with respect to the issues on appeal. Within 30 days of the date of such notice a base-year employer shall provide the hearings officer with a statement in writing which summarizes the evidence which such employer intends to present with respect to the issues on appeal, which indicates whether the employer wishes to be present at any hearing which may be held, and which designates who will represent the employer with respect to the appeal. An employer who fails to respond in the time prescribed shall be barred from further participation in the appeal and shall forfeit any further right to review as provided for in this part.
(b)
Base-year employer files an appeal.
Where a base-year employer files an appeal under § 320.12 of this part, the hearings officer shall notify the claimant that such an appeal has been filed and shall provide the claimant with a statement of issues on appeal. The hearings officer shall inform the claimant that he or she or a duly authorized representative shall have a right to be present at any hearing which is to be held under this part and the right to submit evidence with respect to the issues on appeal. Within 30 days of the date of such notice the claimant shall file with the hearings officer an election to participate in the appeal. A claimant who fails to file an election in the time prescribed shall be barred from further participation in the appeal and shall forfeit any right of review as provided for in this part.
[56 FR 65680, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.20
Powers of hearings officer.
In the development of an appeal, the hearings officer shall have the power to hold hearings, require and compel the attendance of witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and make all necessary investigations.
§ 320.22
Notice of hearing.
(a)
Notification of parties.
At the discretion of the hearings officer, any hearing required under this part may be held in person, by telephone conference call, or by video teleconferencing as described in § 320.25(d). The hearings officer shall promptly notify the party or parties to the proceeding by mail as to said time and place for the hearing. The notice shall include a statement of the specific issues involved in the case. The hearings officer shall make every effort to hold the hearing within 150 days after the date the appeal is filed.
(b)
Notice of objection.
A party to the proceeding may object to the time and place of the hearing, or as to the stated issues to be resolved, by filing a written notice of objection with the hearings officer. The notice of objection shall clearly set forth the matter objected to and the reasons for such objection, and, if the matter objected to is the time and place of the hearing, said notice shall further state that party's choice as to the time and place for the hearing. Said notice of objection shall be filed at the earliest practicable time, but in no event shall said notice be filed later than five business days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing.
(c)
Ruling on objection.
The hearings officer shall rule on any objection timely filed by a party under this section and shall notify the party of his or her ruling thereon. The hearings officer may for good cause shown, or upon his or her own motion, reschedule the time and/or place of the hearing. If an individual objects to having a hearing by video teleconferencing, the hearings officer will find the individual's wish not to appear by video teleconferencing to be a good reason for changing the time or place of the scheduled hearing and will reschedule the hearing for a time or place where a telephone conference call or an in person hearing will be held. The hearings officer also may limit or expand the issues to be resolved at the hearing.
(d)
Failure to appear or to file objection.
If neither a party nor his or her representative appears at the time and place scheduled for the hearing, that party shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to an oral hearing unless said party either filed with the hearings officer a notice of objection showing good cause why the hearing should have been rescheduled, which notice was timely filed but not ruled upon, or, within 10 days following the date on which the hearing was scheduled, said party files with the hearings officer a motion to reschedule the hearing showing good cause why neither the party nor his or her representative appeared at the hearing and further showing good cause as to why said party failed to file at the prescribed time any notice of objection to the time and place of the hearing.
(e)
Rescheduling the hearing.
If the hearings officer finds either that a notice of objection was timely filed showing good cause to reschedule the hearing, or that the party has within 10 days following the date of the hearing filed a motion showing good cause for failure to appear and to file a notice of objection, the hearings officer shall reschedule the hearing. If the hearings officer finds that the hearing shall not be rescheduled, he or she shall so notify the party in writing.
[53 FR 2488, Jan. 28, 1988, as amended at 71 FR 55283, Sept. 22, 2006]
§ 320.25
Hearing of appeal.
(a)
Manner of conducting hearing.
The hearing shall be informal, fair, and impartial, and shall be conducted in such manner as to ascertain the substantial rights of the parties. The hearing shall not be open to the public.
(b)
Evidence presented in support of appeal.
(1) Any party, or his or her representative, shall be afforded full opportunity to present evidence upon any controversial question of fact, orally or in writing or by means of exhibits; to examine and cross-examine witnesses; and to present argument in support of the appeal.
(2) The formal rules of evidence shall not apply; however, the hearings officer may exclude evidence which he or she finds is irrelevant or repetitious. Any evidence excluded by the hearings officer shall be described and that description made part of the record.
(3) If, in the judgment of the hearings officer, evidence not offered is available and is relevant and material to the merits of the claim, the hearings officer may obtain such evidence upon his or her own initiative. If new evidence is obtained after an oral hearing, other than evidence submitted by a party or his representative, the hearings officer shall provide the parties or their representatives with a copy of such evidence. In such event, any party shall have 30 days to submit rebuttal evidence or argument or to request a supplemental hearing to confront and challenge such new evidence. Any party may move for an extension of time to submit rebuttal evidence or argument and the hearings officer may grant the motion upon a showing of good cause.
(c)
Where no oral hearing required.
Where the hearings officer finds that no factual issues are presented by an appeal, and the only issues raised by the parties are issues concerning the application or interpretation of law, the parties or their representatives shall be afforded full opportunity to submit written argument in support of their position but no oral hearing shall be held.
(d)
Hearing by telephone or video teleconferencing.
As stated in § 320.22(a), at the discretion of the hearings officer, any hearing required under this part may be conducted in person, by telephone conference call, or by video teleconferencing. The hearings officer may determine the hearing should be conducted by telephone conference call or video teleconferencing if use of these methods would be more efficient than conducting an in person hearing and the hearings officer does not determine that there is a circumstance in the particular case preventing the use of these methodologies to conduct the hearing.
[Board Order 58-142, 23 FR 9090, Nov. 22, 1958, as amended at 56 FR 65681, Dec. 18, 1991; 67 FR 77157, Dec. 17, 2002; 71 FR 55284, Sept. 22, 2006]
§ 320.28
Record of evidence considered.
The hearings officer will make a record of the material evidence. The
record will include the applications, written statements, reports, and other documents that were used in making the determination under review and any other additional evidence the appellant or any other party to the hearing presents in writing. If a hearing was held in the appeal, the tape recording of the hearing will be part of the record while the appeal is pending. The hearings officer's decision will be based on the record. The entire record at any time during the pendency of the appeal shall be available for examination by any party or by his or her duly authorized representative.
[67 FR 77157, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 320.30
Decision or report of hearings officer.
As soon as practicable after the completion of the record, the hearings officer shall render his decision, or submit his report to the Board, as may be appropriate in the case. The decision or report shall be based on the record and shall be in writing. Such decision shall contain a brief statement of (a) the issue or issues raised, (b) the evidence submitted, (c) findings of fact, (d) the decision made, and (e) the reasons therefor. Such report shall contain a statement of (1) the issue or issues raised, (2) the evidence submitted, (3) findings of fact, (4) conclusions of law, (5) recommendations as to the decision to be made by the Board, and (6) such discussion of the foregoing as the hearings officer may desire to present to the Board. Within 15 days after rendition of the decision or submission of the report, a copy of the decision or report shall be mailed to each party at the last address of record. In the case of a report, a copy of the transcript of the hearing, if any was held, shall also be mailed to each party.
[Board Order 66-84, 31 FR 10181, July 28, 1966, as amended at 56 FR 65681, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.32
Effect of decision of hearings officer.
A decision of the hearings officer, subject to review as hereinafter provided, shall be binding upon any adjudicating office and upon all parties;
(a) With respect to the initial determination involved, and
(b) With respect to other initial determinations, irrespective of whether they have been appealed, which involved the same parties and which were based upon the same issue or issues determined in the decision of the hearings officer.
[56 FR 65681, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.35
Review of decision of hearings officer on motion of Board.
The Board may, on its own motion, review a decision of the hearings officer on the basis of the evidence previously submitted in the case, and may designate any employee of the Board to take additional evidence and to report his findings to the Board.
§ 320.38
Appeal to Board from decision of hearings officer.
Any claimant aggrieved by a decision of the hearings officer and any base-year employer(s) whose employee was awarded benefits, who participated in the appeal before the hearings officer, may appeal to the Board for review of the decision.
[56 FR 65681, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.39
Execution and filing of appeal to Board from decision of hearings officer.
(a) An appeal to the Board from the decision of a hearings officer shall be filed on the form provided by the Board and shall be executed in accordance with the instructions on the form. Such appeal shall be filed within 60 days from the date upon which notice of the decision of the hearings officer was mailed to the parties. The right to further review of a decision of a hearings officer shall be forfeited unless formal final appeal is filed in the manner and within the time prescribed in this section. Any written request stating an intent to appeal which is received within the 60-day period will protect the claimant's right to appeal,
Provided that
the claimant files the appeal form within the later of the 60-day period following the date of the hearing officer's decision, or the 30-day period following the date of the letter sending the appeal form to the claimant. However, when a party fails to file an appeal before the Board within the time
prescribed in this section, the Board may waive this requirement if along with the final appeal, the party in writing requests an extension of time. The request for an extension of time must give the reasons why the final appeal form was not filed within the time limit prescribed in this section. If in the judgment of the Board the reasons given establish that the party has good cause for not filing the final appeal form within the time limit prescribed, the Board will consider the appeal to have been filed in a timely manner. The Board will use the standards found in § 320.10(e) of this part in determining if good cause exists.
(b) Where a timely appeal seeking waiver of recovery of an erroneous payment has been filed with the three-member Board, the Board shall not commence recovery of the erroneous payment by suspension or reduction of a monthly benefit payable by the Board until a decision with respect to such appeal seeking waiver has been made and notice thereof has been mailed to the claimant.
[67 FR 77157, Dec. 17, 2002; 68 FR 6820, Feb. 11, 2003]
§ 320.40
Procedure before the Board on appeal from a decision of a hearings officer.
Upon the filing of an appeal to the Board from a decision of a hearings officer, the Secretary to the Board shall notify all parties to the decision of the hearings officer that an appeal has been filed. The parties shall not have the right to submit additional evidence, except that:
(a) The Board may permit the submission of additional evidence upon a showing by a party that he or she has additional evidence to present which, for valid reasons, he or she was unable to present at an earlier stage;
(b) The Board may request the submission of additional evidence; and
(c) The Board may designate any employee of the Board to take additional evidence and to report his or her findings to the Board. Any such additional evidence shall be submitted in such manner as the Board may indicate and shall be included in the record.
(d) Any party may submit additional argument in writing with the appeal to the Board. No party shall have the right to an oral presentation before the Board except where the Board so permits. Such presentation may be limited in form, subject matter, length, and time as the Board may indicate to the parties.
[56 FR 65681, Dec. 18, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 77158, Dec. 17, 2002]
§ 320.41
Procedure before Board after submission of report by hearings officer.
(a) After submission to the Board of a hearings officer's report, in an appeal involving employee status or the creditability of compensation, any party to the proceeding may, within twenty days after the mailing to him of a copy of the report, file with the Board and serve upon other parties by mailing to their last addresses of record such exceptions in writing as he desires to make to the hearings officer's findings of fact and conclusions of law. Each exception shall specifically designate the particular finding of fact or conclusion of law to which exception is taken, and shall set forth in detail the grounds of the exception. General exceptions and exceptions not specifically directed to particular findings of fact or conclusions of law will not be considered. Each party shall have ten days after the receipt of exceptions taken by other parties in which to file with the Board replies to the exceptions. The Board may, upon the application of any party and for cause shown, extend the time for filing and serving of exceptions or filing of replies thereto. The hearings officer's report shall be advisory but shall be presumed to be correct. Findings of fact to which no exceptions are taken will, subject only to the power of the Board to reject or modify, stand confirmed.
(b) Further argument will not be permitted except upon a showing by any party that he has arguments to present which for valid reasons he was unable to present at an earlier stage, and in cases in which the Board requests further elaboration of arguments. In such cases, the further argument shall be submitted orally or in writing, as the Board may indicate in each case, and shall be subject to such restrictions as
to form, subject matter, length, and time as the Board may indicate.
§ 320.42
Decision of Board.
The decision of the Board, whether on an appeal to the Board from a decision of a hearings officer, or after submission of a report by a hearings officer, shall be made upon the basis of the record established in accordance with the foregoing sections. Notice of such decision, together with the Board's findings of fact and conclusions of law in connection therewith, shall, within 15 days from the date on which the decision is made, be mailed to the parties at the latest addresses furnished by them. Subject only to judicial review in accordance with § 320.45, the decision of the Board shall be final and conclusive for all purposes:
(a) With respect to the initial determination involved, and
(b) With respect to other initial determinations, irrespective of whether they have been appealed, which involve the same parties and which were based on the same issue or issues determined in the decision of the Board. In a case in which there has been a hearings officer's report, in an appeal involving employee status or the creditability of compensation, the decision of the Board on all issues determined in such decision shall be final and conclusively establish all rights and obligations, arising under the Act, of every party notified as hereinabove provided of his or her right to participate in the proceedings.
[Board Order 66-84, 31 FR 10181, July 28, 1966, as amended at 56 FR 65681, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.45
Judicial review.
Upon being notified of a decision of the Board made (a) upon review, on the Board's own motion, of a decision of a hearings officer, or (b) upon an appeal to the Board, an aggrieved party may obtain judicial review of such final decision, by filing a petition for review within ninety days after the date on which notice of such decision was mailed to him, or within such further time as the Board may allow, in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the party resides or will have had his principal place of business or principal executive office, or in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit or in the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
[Board Order 58-142, 23 FR 9090, Nov. 22, 1958, as amended at 56 FR 65682, Dec. 18, 1991]
§ 320.48
Representatives of parties.
In the event a party to any proceeding within the Board, under the preceding regulations in this part, desires to be represented by another person, he shall file with the Board prior to the time of such representation a power of attorney signed by him and naming such other person as the person authorized to represent him:
Provided, however,
That without requiring such power of attorney the Board may recognize as the duly authorized representative of the claimant the person designated by the claimant's railway labor organization to act in behalf of members of that organization on such matters whenever such representative acts or appears for such claimant.
§ 320.49
Determination of date of filing.
(a)
General rule.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this part, a document or form is filed on the day it is received by an office of the Board or by an employee of the Board who is authorized to receive it at a place other than one of the Board's offices.
(b)
Other dates of filing.
The Board will also accept as the date of filing the date a document or form is mailed to the Board by the United States mail, if using the date the Board receives it would result in the loss or lessening of rights. The date shown by a U.S. postmark will be used as the date of mailing. If the postmark is unreadable, or there is no postmark, the Board will consider other evidence of when the document or form was mailed to the Board.
(c)
Use of electronic mail.
By agreement between a base-year employer and the Board, any document required to be filed with the Board or any notice required to be sent to the employer may be transmitted by electronic mail.
[67 FR 77158, Dec. 17, 2002]
Pt. 321

# PART 321—ELECTRONIC FILING OF APPLICATIONS AND CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS UNDER THE RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT
Sec.
321.1
Filing applications electronically.
321.2
Filing claims for benefits electronically.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 355 and 362(l).

# Source:
69 FR 32260, June 9, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 321.1
Filing applications electronically.
(a)
Electronic filing.
An application for benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act may be filed electronically through the Board's Internet Web site,
http://www.rrb.gov,
utilizing a User ID and a PIN/Password.
(b)
Adjudication of applications filed electronically.
An application filed electronically shall be adjudicated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part.
(c)
Date of filing.
The date of filing for an application filed electronically shall be the date that the electronic filing of the application is accepted by the Board's electronic system. If an attempt to file an application through the Board's electronic system is unsuccessful and is rejected by that system, the claimant must submit another application. If the subsequent application, filed either electronically or on paper, is received by the Board within 30 days from the date of the notification that the initial filing attempt was rejected, the Board will establish the filing date of the subsequent application as the date the rejected application was attempted to be filed.
§ 321.2
Filing claims for benefits electronically.
(a)
Electronic filing.
A claim for benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act may be filed electronically through the Board's Internet Web site,
http://www.rrb.gov,
utilizing a User ID and a PIN/Password.
(b)
Adjudication of claims filed electronically.
A claim for benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act filed electronically shall be adjudicated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part.
(c)
Date of filing.
The date of filing for a claim for benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act filed electronically shall be the date that the electronic filing of the claim is accepted by the Board's electronic system. If an attempt to file a claim for benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act is unsuccessful and is rejected by the Board's electronic system, the claimant must submit another claim for benefits. If the subsequent claim for benefits, either filed electronically or on paper, is received by the Board within 30 days from the date of the notification that the initial filing was rejected, the Board will establish the filing date of the subsequent claim as the date the rejected claim was attempted to be filed.
Pt. 322

# PART 322—REMUNERATION
Sec.
322.1
Introduction.
322.2
General definition of remuneration.
322.3
Determining the days with respect to which remuneration is payable or accrues.
322.4
Consideration of evidence.
322.5
Payments under vacation agreements.
322.6
Pay for time lost.
322.7
Dismissal, coordination, and separation allowances.
322.8
Miscellaneous income.
322.9
Subsidiary remuneration.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 362(l).

# Source:
Board Order 59-73, 24 FR 2487, Mar. 31, 1959, unless otherwise noted.
§ 322.1
Introduction.
The Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act provides benefits for a qualified employee's days of unemployment or days of sickness, as defined in section 1(k) of the Act. Under that section, no day can be a day of unemployment or a day of sickness for any employee if “remuneration” is payable or accrues to the employee for such day. In computing the amount of benefits payable to an employee for days of unemployment or days of sickness in any registration period, or in determining whether the employee has satisfied the waiting period requirement, the Board will not count any day with respect to
which remuneration is payable or accrues to the employee. Section 322.2 defines the term “remuneration” and explains what types of payments to employees constitute remuneration.
[65 FR 14459, Mar. 17, 2000]
§ 322.2
General definition of remuneration.
(a)
Remuneration.
(1) Remuneration includes pay for services for hire, pay for time lost as defined in § 322.6, and other earned income payable or accruing with respect to any day. Income is “earned” if it is payable or accrues in consideration of services and if such services were in turn rendered in consideration of the income payable or accruing.
(2) Remuneration includes income in the form of a commodity, service, or privilege if, before the performance of the service for which it is payment, the parties have agreed upon the value of such commodity, service, or privilege, and that such part of the amount agreed upon to be paid may be paid in the form of such commodity, service, or privilege.
(3) Remuneration for a working day that includes a part of two consecutive calendar days is deemed to have been earned on the first of such two days.
(b)
Subsidiary remuneration.
For the purpose of this part, remuneration does not include subsidiary remuneration, as defined in § 322.9. Subsidiary remuneration for any day does not prevent such day from being a day of unemployment or a day of sickness, except as explained in § 322.9.
(c)
Supplemental unemployment or sickness benefits.
The term remuneration does not include money payments received by an employee pursuant to any nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance, as defined in part 323 of this chapter. Employer payments of sick pay to an employee are remuneration, except when payment is made pursuant to a nongovernmental plan for sickness insurance.
[65 FR 14459, Mar. 17, 2000]
§ 322.3
Determining the days with respect to which remuneration is payable or accrues.
(a)
Payable or accrues.
In determining whether remuneration is “payable” or “accrues” to an employee with respect to a claimed day or days, consideration shall be given to such factors as
(1) The intention of the parties with respect to the remuneration as indicated in employment contracts, in any expressed or implied agreements between the parties, and by the actions of the parties;
(2) Any evidence, such as vouchers or agreement of the parties, relating the remuneration to a particular period of time or indicating that the remuneration accrued or became payable without reference to any particular period of time;
(3) The measure by which the amount of remuneration was determined;
(4) Whether the amount of the remuneration is proportionate to the length of time needed to render the service for which it is payment;
(5) Whether the service for which the remuneration accrues is required to be rendered on any particular day or particular days; and
(6) Whether a specified amount of the remuneration is contingent upon a result accomplished on a particular day or particular days.
(b)
Layover days.
Remuneration shall not be regarded as payable or accruing to an employee with respect to his or her “layover” days between regular assignments in train and engine service solely because they are termed “layover” days. But no such “layover” day may be considered as a day of unemployment or sickness. See § 332.6 of this chapter.
(c)
Guaranteed earnings.
A payment under a plan which guarantees an amount of earnings or mileage in a specified period is remuneration with respect to each day in the specified period.
(d)
Equivalent of full-time work.
An employee who works fewer than five days each week under a compressed work schedule that provides the equivalent of full-time employment does not earn remuneration with respect to his or her additional rest days resulting
from such work schedule, but such employee will not be considered to be available for work on such rest days. See § 327.10(d) of this chapter.
[Board Order 59-73, 24 FR 2487, Mar. 31, 1959, as amended at 65 FR 14460, Mar. 17, 2000]
§ 322.4
Consideration of evidence.
(a)
Initial proof.
A claimant's certification that he or she did not work on any day claimed and did not receive income such as vacation pay or pay for time lost for any such day shall constitute sufficient evidence for an initial finding that no remuneration is payable or has accrued to him or her with respect to such day, unless a base year employer reports that he or she worked on days claimed or received payments that constitute remuneration as defined in this part, or unless there is other conflicting evidence.
(b)
Investigation.
When there is a question as to whether or not remuneration is payable or has accrued to a claimant with respect to a claimed day or days, investigation shall be made with a view to obtaining information sufficient for a finding.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 3220-0049)
[Board Order 59-73, 24 FR 2487, Mar. 31, 1959, as amended at 52 FR 11017, Apr. 6, 1987; 65 FR 14460, Mar. 17, 2000]
§ 322.5
Payments under vacation agreements.
(a)
General.
In ascertaining the accrual of remuneration under a vacation agreement, consideration shall be given to the applicable agreements and practices, the interpretations of such agreements and practices developed by the parties, and the actions of the parties pursuant thereto. When there is information that an employee has received or is to receive payment under a vacation agreement, such payment shall, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, be considered to be remuneration with respect to the days to which the payment is assigned.
(b)
Vacation pay.
If an employee takes a vacation in accordance with a vacation agreement, the payment for such vacation shall constitute remuneration with respect to the days in the vacation period for which the payment is made. An employee shall be regarded as taking a vacation when, in accordance with the applicable agreements and practices (1) he is absent from work during a scheduled or assigned vacation period; (2) he is required to take his vacation with pay while he is on furlough; or (3) he chooses to take his vacation with pay while he is unemployed or absent from work due to illness or other personal circumstances.
(c)
Pay in lieu of vacation.
If a payment in lieu of vacation is made to an employee under a vacation agreement such payment shall not constitute remuneration with respect to any particular day or days. A payment under a vacation agreement shall be regarded as in lieu of vacation if:
(1) The payment is made at the end of the vacation year to an employee who did not take his vacation during such year; or
(2) The payment is made after the employee's death, or after he ceased service for the purpose of receiving an annuity, and the payment is credited to the employee's last day of service; or
(3) It is otherwise established that the parties intended the payment to be in lieu of vacation, without reference to any particular period.
[Board Order 59-73, 24 FR 2487, Mar. 31, 1959, as amended at 65 FR 14460, Mar. 17, 2000]
§ 322.6
Pay for time lost.
(a)
Definition.
The term “pay for time lost” means any payment made to an employee with respect to an identifiable period of time during which the employee was absent from the active service of the person or company making the payment, including absence on account of personal injury. The entire amount paid to an employee who was absent on account of personal injury is pay for time lost if such amount includes pay for time lost, unless at the time of payment the parties, by agreement, specify a different amount as the amount of the pay for time lost and the period of time covered by such pay. The amount allocated to time lost is remuneration for every day in the period of time lost. The amount of a payment for personal injury that is apportioned to factors other than time lost
is, nevertheless, a portion of “damages” for the purposes of part 341 of this chapter.
(b)
Employment relationship required.
Pay for time lost shall not be deemed to have been earned on any day after the day of the employee's resignation or other termination of his employment relationship.
(c)
Initial evidence.
A report that an employee has received or is to receive pay for time lost shall, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, be considered sufficient for a finding that remuneration is payable with respect to each day in the period to which the pay is assigned.
[Board Order 59-73, 24 FR 2487, Mar. 31, 1959, as amended at 65 FR 14460, Mar. 17, 2000]
§ 322.7
Dismissal, coordination, and separation allowances.
(a)
Coordination or dismissal allowance.
Coordination or dismissal allowances are payments made to an employee who has been furloughed for a specified period of time during which he or she continues in an employment relationship and remains subject to call. Such pay is remuneration with respect to each day in the month or other period for which it is payable. The employer shall be held liable to the Board for any benefits paid to the employee and found recoverable under section 2(f) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act by reason of the payment of any such allowances or other pay for the same days for which the Board paid benefits.
(b)
Separation allowance.
A separation allowance or severance payment made to an employee who voluntarily or involuntarily terminates his or her employment relationship is not remuneration with respect to any day after the employment relationship is severed. An employee who is paid a separation allowance, whether in a lump sum or in installments, is disqualified by section 4(a-1)(iii) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act from receiving unemployment or sickness benefits for the period of time approximating the length of time it would have taken the employee to earn, at his or her “straight” time rate of pay, the amount of the separation allowance if he or she had continued working in the job from which he or she separated.
[65 FR 14460, Mar. 17, 2000]
§ 322.8
Miscellaneous income.
(a)
Income from self-employment.
In determining whether income from self-employment is remuneration with respect to a particular day or particular days, consideration shall be given to whether, and to what extent, (1) such income can be related to services performed on the day or days and (2) the expenses of the self-employment can be attributed to the day or days. Income from services performed by an individual on a farm which he owns or rents, or in his own mercantile establishment, ordinarily is not remuneration with respect to any day.
(b)
Income from investment.
Income in the form of interest, dividends, and other returns on invested capital which is not coupled with the rendition of personal services shall not be regarded as remuneration.
(c)
Commissions on sales.
Commissions on sales shall be regarded as remuneration with respect to the day or days on which sales are made.
(d)
Payments for service as a public official.
In determining whether income for service as a public official is remuneration and, if so, the particular day or days with respect to which such remuneration is payable or accrues, consideration shall be given to such factors as—
(1) The amount of the income;
(2) The terms and conditions of payment;
(3) The character and extent of the services rendered;
(4) The importance, prestige, and responsibilities attached to the position;
(5) The day or days on which services, or readiness to perform services, are required; and
(6) The provisions of the applicable statutes.
(e)
Payments to local lodge officials.
A payment by a local lodge of a labor organization to an employee for services as a local lodge official shall be regarded as subsidiary remuneration if such payment does not exceed an average of $15 a day for the period with respect to which it is payable or accrues, unless there is information that the
work from which the payment is derived does not require substantially less than full time as determined by generally prevailing standards, or is not susceptible of performance at such times and under such circumstances as not to be inconsistent with the holding of normal full-time employment in another occupation.
(f)
Public relief payments.
Public relief payments made in consideration of need shall not be regarded as remuneration.
[Board Order 59-73, 24 FR 2487, Mar. 31, 1959, as amended at 65 FR 14460, Mar. 17, 2000]
§ 322.9
Subsidiary remuneration.
(a)
Definition.
The term “subsidiary remuneration” means remuneration not in excess of an average of $15 per day for the period with respect to which it is payable or accrues, if
(1) The work from which the remuneration derives requires substantially less than full time as determined by generally prevailing standards; and
(2) The work is susceptible of performance at such times and under such circumstances as not to be inconsistent with the holding of normal full-time employment in another occupation.
(b)
Exception.
If a claimant's remuneration is “compensation” as defined in part 302 of this chapter, such remuneration is not subsidiary unless the claimant had base year compensation from a different position or occupation of not less than two and one-half times the monthly compensation base for months in the base year in which he or she received the remuneration. Compensation in excess of an average of $15 per day is remuneration for the days for which it is payable or accrues.
(c)
Period for which remuneration is payable or accrues.
The “period” of time used in determining whether remuneration averages more than $15 per day depends on the terms and conditions of the employment and the rate of payment for the work. If the claimant is paid a monthly salary, the “month” is the period with respect to which the pay must average not more than $15 per day. The average is the monthly salary divided by 30. If the claimant is paid a weekly salary, the amount of the salary is divided by seven. If the claimant is paid by the hour or the day, the “period” is the day. Where payment is made by the hour or the day, the pay is not added up and then averaged out over the week or the month. For example, earnings of $20 on one day and $10 on another day do not average out to $15 per day so as to permit both days to be considered as days of unemployment or days of sickness.
(d)
Substantially less than full time.
The phrase “substantially less than full time” means employment of not more than four hours per day.
(e)
Compatibility with full time employment.
Work is considered to be susceptible of performance at such times and under such circumstances as not to be inconsistent with the holding of normal full-time employment in another position or occupation if it is a form of secondary employment that a claimant has done or could do at his or her own convenience while performing the duties of his or her railroad job.
(f)
Determinations.
The Board shall make a determination whether remuneration is subsidiary by applying the standards in this section to the facts of each case. Earnings that average more than $15 per day are not subsidiary remuneration under any circumstances. Also, earnings of any amount that are included in a claimant's qualifying base year compensation are not subsidiary remuneration. Even if earnings do not exceed an average of $15 per day, they may still not be subsidiary remuneration if the claimant worked more than four hours per day or if the work had to be performed at such times and under such circumstances as to be inconsistent with the holding of normal full-time work in his or her regular railroad work. If the evidence does not establish that the earnings are subsidiary remuneration, the question whether they are remuneration for particular days will then be considered.
(g)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this section.
(1) A claimant receives a salary of $350 per month for serving as secretary-treasurer of the local lodge of his union. He performs a variety of duties at his own convenience while holding down a full-time railroad job in his craft. The average payment per day is not more than $15 and is, therefore, subsidiary remuneration.
(2) A claimant worked three hours per day, at $5 per hour, in the family insurance business. He was marked up for work as an extra board trainman and worked whenever he was called. When called, he skipped work in the family insurance business. His insurance earnings of $15 per day were subsidiary remuneration.
(3) While unemployed from her railroad job, a claimant took a job as a school bus driver. She worked from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m., and 2:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Her regular railroad job was a daytime job from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Her pay as a school bus driver was not subsidiary remuneration because the job was not compatible with the holding of full time work in her regular railroad occupation.
[65 FR 14460, Mar. 17, 2000]
Pt. 323

# PART 323—NONGOVERNMENTAL PLANS FOR UNEMPLOYMENT OR SICKNESS INSURANCE
Sec.
323.1
Introduction.
323.2
Definition of nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance.
323.3
Standards for Board approval of a nongovernmental plan.
323.4
Guidelines for content of a nongovernmental plan.
323.5
Submitting proposed plan for Board approval.
323.6
Treatment of benefit payments under a nongovernmental plan for purposes of contributions.
323.7
Effective date.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 362(1).

# Source:
56 FR 26328, June 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 323.1
Introduction.
(a) This part defines the phrase
nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance
and sets forth the procedure by which an employer may obtain a determination by the Railroad Retirement Board as to whether a particular plan that such employer maintains for its employees qualifies as a nongovernmental plan. In general, any payment by an employer to an employee for services rendered as an employee will be considered to be
remuneration
within the meaning of section 1(j) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act and part 322 of this chapter. This includes employer payments that relate to an employee's loss of earnings during a period of time when the employee is unemployed or sick, including sickness resulting from injury. The exception is when an employer pays an employee a benefit pursuant to the provisions of a nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance established by an employer for the benefit of its employees. Benefit payments under such plans are not remuneration and do not affect an employee's eligibility for unemployment or sickness benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act.
(b) This part does not have any general applicability to private insurance contracts under which an insurance company, pursuant to a policy of insurance maintained by or for an employee, pays medical or hospital expenses or other cash benefits to or in behalf of an employee. Nor does this part apply to any private plan for relief of unemployment established by a party other than an employer such as, for example, a plan established by a labor union under which it undertakes to pay benefits to striking members of the union out of a strike insurance fund. Insurance policy benefits and strike unemployment benefits, although paid under plans that are nongovernmental in nature, are not considered remuneration for services under the general definition of
remuneration.
See part 322 of this chapter.
§ 323.2
Definition of nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance.
A nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance is a benefit plan, program or policy that is in the nature of insurance and is designed and established by an employer for the purpose of supplementing the benefits that an employee of such employer may receive under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act during a period of unemployment or sickness. A nongovernmental plan may be established by labor-management agreement or by unilateral employer action. Payments under such plans are referred to
as supplemental unemployment benefits (SUB pay) or supplemental sickness benefits, rather than as wages, salary or pay for time lost, because their inherent nature is to supplement benefit payments under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act rather than to replace or duplicate such payments.
§ 323.3
Standards for Board approval of a nongovernmental plan.
An unemployment or sickness benefit plan qualifies as a nongovernmental plan if it conforms to the following standards:
(a) The plan is in writing and has been published or otherwise communicated to covered employees prior to the inception of the plan;
(b) Benefits under the plan are payable only to employees who are involuntarily laid off or separated from the service of the employer or who are absent from work on account of illness or injury;
(c) Payment of benefits under the plan is conditioned upon a covered employee's meeting the eligibility conditions governing payment of benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. However, a plan will not be disqualified merely because it:
(1) Provides benefits during any waiting period required under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, or
(2) Provides benefits after an employee has exhausted rights to benefits under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, or
(3) Provides benefits during a period when the employee is not a “qualified employee”, within the meaning of part 302 of this chapter;
(d) Payment of benefits under the plan is coordinated with benefit payments to which the employee may be entitled under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. In general, plan benefit payments will be considered coordinated with Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act benefit payments when computation of the plan benefits takes Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act benefit entitlement into consideration in such a way as to make it clear that the plan is supplementing Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act benefit payments for days of unemployment or days of sickness. For example, a plan that provides for payment of a specified daily benefit amount is considered coordinated with Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act benefit payments if the plan provides that the daily benefit amount otherwise payable to the employee is reduced by the amount of benefits that the employee received or could receive under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act for the same day if the employee had met all the eligibility criteria for such benefit. Similarly, there is acceptable coordination if the plan simply provides for payment of an amount as an “add-on” benefit to the amount of Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act benefits paid or payable. On the other hand, a plan that allows payment so as to compensate an employee for railroad or non-railroad earnings that are lower in amount than what the employee would get under the plan if he or she were not employed is not considered coordinated with benefit payments under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act because an employer payment made under such circumstances supplements earnings rather than benefit payments under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. No Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act benefits are payable to an employee who is earning remuneration from railroad or non-railroad employment. Employer payments that make up for low earnings are pay for time lost and therefore are
compensation
and
remuneration
;
(e) The plan confers upon covered employees an enforceable right to the benefits under the plan. The plan may not commit to management discretion any decision as to whether such employee will actually be paid the benefits to which he is entitled under the plan or the amount to be paid;
(f) The plan may not provide benefits to a covered employee in an amount that, when added to his or her Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act benefits, is greater than the wages of salary that would have been paid if the employee were employed; and
(g) The plan incorporates the features set forth in § 323.4 of this part and has been approved by the Board's Director of Unemployment and Sickness
Insurance as a nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance.
§ 323.4
Guidelines for content of a nongovernmental plan.
At a minimum, a nongovernmental plan for unemployment or sickness insurance should contain the following features:
(a) The title of the plan (e.g., Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan or Supplemental Sickness Benefit Plan);
(b) A statement of purpose, such as the following:
There is hereby established a nongovernmental plan for (unemployment insurance) (sickness insurance) [specify which one] within the meaning of section 1(j) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act. The purpose of this plan is to supplement the benefits that an eligible employee may receive under that Act and not to replace or duplicate such benefits. Payments under this plan are designed as one of the benefits of employment with [name of employer] and are not intended as pay for time lost or any other form of remuneration for services rendered as an employee;
(c) A statement as to which class or craft of employees, or other specified group of employees, is covered by the plan;
(d) The criteria governing a particular covered employee's eligibility for supplemental benefits under the plan;
(e) The dollar amount of supplemental benefits payable on a periodic basis to an eligible employee, the duration of supplemental benefits, how such benefits will be computed, and the conditions under which an employee will be disqualified or benefit payments reduced or terminated; and
(f) The identity of the plan administrator and the procedure by which a covered employee may claim supplemental benefits under the plan, including forms to be filed (if any), how to file, the time limit for filing, and how an employee may appeal from a denial of supplemental benefits.
§ 323.5
Submitting proposed plan for Board approval.
An employer shall submit each proposed plan, or a proposed revision to an existing plan, to the Director of Unemployment and Sickness Insurance, Railroad Retirement Board, 844 Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611. The Director shall determine whether the plan or revision conforms to this part. Approval shall be effective as of the effective date of the plan. If not approved, the Director will advise the employer in which particular respects the proposed plan or revision does not conform to this part.
§ 323.6
Treatment of benefit payments under a nongovernmental plan for purposes of contributions.
Benefit payments under nongovernmental plans approved by the Board under this part are not
compensation
as defined in section 1(i) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, and therefore they are not subject to contribution under part 345 of this chapter.
§ 323.7
Effective date.
(a) This part shall not apply to a plan approved by the Director of Unemployment and Sickness Insurance prior to the effective date of this part. However, it shall apply to any proposed revision to such plan.
(b) Any plan in effect on the effective date of this part that has not been approved by the Director of Unemployment and Sickness Insurance shall be considered a proposed plan for purposes of § 323.5.
Pt. 325

# PART 325—REGISTRATION FOR RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
Sec.
325.1
General.
325.2
Procedure for registering for unemployment benefits.
325.3
Application for unemployment benefits and employment service.
325.4
Claim for unemployment benefits.
325.5
Death of employee.
325.6
Verification procedures.

# Authority:
45 U.S.C. 362(i) and 362(l).

# Source:
54 FR 24551, June 8, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 325.1
General.
(a)
Day of unemployment.
A “day of unemployment” is a calendar day on which an employee, although ready and willing to work, is unemployed, and on
which no remuneration is payable and for which the employee has registered, as required by this part. The amount of compensable days of unemployment shall be computed in accordance with this section.
(b)
Registration period.
Except for registration periods in extended unemployment benefit periods, a “registration period” means a period of 14 consecutive days beginning with the first day for which an employee registers following:
(1) His or her last day of work, or
(2) The last day of the employee's last preceding registration period, and with respect to which the employee properly files a claim for benefits on such form and in such manner as the Board prescribes.
(c)
General waiting period.
Benefits are payable to any qualified employee for each day of unemployment in excess of seven during his or her first registration period in a period of continuing unemployment if such period of continuing unemployment is his or her initial period of continuing unemployment beginning in the benefit year, and then for each day of unemployment in excess of four during any subsequent registration period within the same period of continuing unemployment. A strike waiting period, described in paragraph (d) of this section, will satisfy a general waiting period with respect to a benefit year.
(d)
Strike waiting period.
If a qualified employee has a period of continuing unemployment that includes days of unemployment due to a stoppage of work because of a strike in the establishment, premises, or enterprise at which he or she was last employed, no benefits are payable for his or her first 14 days of unemployment due to such stoppage of work. For subsequent days of unemployment due to the same stoppage of work, benefits are payable for days of unemployment in excess of four in each subsequent registration period within the period of continuing unemployment. If such period of continuing unemployment ends because the employee has exhausted his or her benefits as provided for under part 336 of this chapter, but the stoppage of work continues, benefits are payable for days of unemployment in excess of seven in the employee's first registration period in a new period of continuing unemployment based upon the same stoppage of work and for days of unemployment in excess of four in subsequent registration periods in the same period of continuing unemployment.
(e)
Period of continuing unemployment.
A “period of continuing unemployment” means a single registration period that includes more than four days of unemployment or a series of consecutive periods each of which includes more than four days of unemployment, or a series of successive registration periods, each of which includes more than four days of unemployment, if each succeeding registration period begins within 15 days after the last day of the immediately preceding registration period. An employee's period of continuing unemployment ends on the last day of a benefit year in which he or she exhausts rights to unemployment benefits as provided for in part 336 of this chapter.
(f)
Computation of compensable days
—(1)
Example 1.
